K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that J D Williams & Company  Limited, trading as Jacamo,  hasnt treated 
her fairly. She says Fashion World  was irresponsible when it increased her credit limit 
beyond her means; the limits were too high and the payments were unaffordable.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to uphold  Miss Gs complaint 
and I invited both parties  to let me have  any further  representations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties were  sent my provisional 
decision, but neither of them has given me any further information or evidence  to consider.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and require J D Williams  & Company Limited  to pay compensation as 
set out in the provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN65678362Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Miss G complains  that J D Williams & Company  Limited, trading  as Jacamo, hasnt treated her fairly. 
She says Jacamo  was irresponsible when it increased  her credit limit beyond  her means;  the limits 
were too high and the payments were unaffordable.
background
Miss G opened  an account  with Jacamo in November  2014 and was initially  given a credit limit of 
between £100 and £150. But she says that over the next few years that limit was increased  
significantly. She told us:
she wasnt in a good  position  financially when  she first opened the accounts and she missed  
some of the early account repayments.
as the credit limit increased, she spent more money and found  it harder  and harder  to make 
her monthly repayments.
whenever she contacted Jacamo  about  her financial  situation or her arrears, it would 
temporarily suspend her account  so she couldnt spend  any more. But then, as soon as the 
account was up to date again, it would  allow  her to purchase more  items on account and it 
would increase  her spending limit further.
Miss G says the credit limit she had was too high and she should  not have been allowed  that level of 
spending when she was obviously struggling with her account repayments. She says Jacamo  
wouldve known this from her credit report, and its actions worsened her situation, placing her under a 
great deal of stress.
Miss G wants  Jacamo to refund the interest and charges connected with her late payments  and 
arrears. And she says it should also write  off any outstanding balance  on the account.  Miss G says 
Jacamo should also correct her credit record and remove any negative  information relating to this 
account.
Jacamo rejected this complaint. It says when  Miss G first applied for an account it assessed her 
application using several sources  of information, including  her credit report. It says it offered her an 
initial credit  limit of between £100 and £150 and it wouldve asked her to read and accept  the terms 
and conditions of the credit  facility.
Jacamo says the credit limit is calculated  using a complex set of business rules which  are designed 
to increase the credit  limit on the account where  we feel it is appropriate to do so. And a customer 
can decline  any credit increase that is offered.  Jacamo says that after each of her catalogue 
purchases, Miss G chose to pay using her credit  facility rather than paying the full amount 
immediately. And it says it sent account statements every 28 days. It says the account statement  
detailed the how the credit worked and provided  details of the account balance; any interest or 
charges; the minimum payment; and the payment  due date  so Miss G always  wouldve  known what  
she needed  to pay. Jacamo says it operated the account and applied interest  and charges in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions that Miss G had seen and agreed to.
Our adjudicator looked  at this case and said she thought it should  be upheld. She explained  that 
lenders must  undertake reasonable and proportionate checks when advancing credit in order to 
satisfy themselves that the lending is affordable. But she said she didnt  think it had done enough  
because Miss Gs credit history indicated possible financial difficulties and it shouldve asked more 
questions before it increased the credit limit on this account.
She asked  Jacamo  to refund  the interest and charges on the account from November  2014 and 
asked it to remove any adverse information on Miss Gs credit file from this point as well.
Ref: DRN65678363Jacamo disagreed  so the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I hope that Miss G and Jacamo wont take it as a discourtesy that 
Ive condensed  this complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, 
and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do 
that.
Having considered  the evidence, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our adjudicator and for much the 
same reasons  I think  Jacamo shouldve realised Miss G was experiencing financial difficulties  and it 
shouldnt have given  Miss G all the credit limit increases that it did.
The starting  point here is that lenders  have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those  facing 
financial hardship,  fairly. And once  Jacamo knew about  Miss Gs financial difficulties, it needed to 
respond positively and fairly. And I simply  dont think that increasing her credit limit further was a 
response that was either positive or fair. So Im satisfied that some of the changes to Miss Gs credit 
limit were  irresponsible.
But where  my view differs from that of our adjudicator  is the point at which I think  Jacamo shouldve 
realised Miss G was in financial difficulty. And its the increases to her credit  limit after this point that I 
think are neither positive nor fair.
Its clear from Miss Gs credit  report  that shes taken out a lot of credit in recent years.  And although I 
can see the report produced  by the credit  reference agency,  I dont have access  to the data and 
information that the agency itself receives. Her credit file shows a number of instances between 2012 
and 2014 where one or other of Miss Gs accounts has minor arrears. Minor arrears are defined  as 
being of less than two months in value. It could  be triggered  by Miss G making a late payment or not 
being able to make the minimum payment in full. These minor arrears  are sporadic   theres  no trend 
or pattern to them. And on each occasion, the account in question  is brought up to date within  a very 
short period of time. So I dont think any of the arrears in this period shouldve necessarily alerted 
Jacamo to Miss Gs situation. And I dont think I can hold it responsible for Miss Gs financial situation 
or stress.
The position  changes noticeably in May 2014. Five of the following eight months in 2014 are 
annotated as minor arrears before progressing to sustained  arrears  in March 2015 with Miss G 
entering a payment arrangement in September 2015. And I can see that some of her other accounts  
are coded similarly  in 2016  before the accounts are defaulted. So Im satisfied that this is the point 
from which subsequent credit increases werent  appropriate.
I think  its significant that much of the information on the credit file thats been labelled sustained  
arrears relates to credit that Miss G holds with Jacamo or one of its related brands. So Im satisfied 
that J D Williams & Company Limited (trading  as Jacamo) wouldve had great knowledge  and insight 
into Miss Gs financial situation  a high level of detailed  corporate knowledge   and that the 
increases in her credit limit after May 2014 werent  fair or proportionate.
Jacamo has given me information  that indicates Miss G was granted  an initial credit limit of £100-
£150 in November 2014 and that the limit was changed:
from £500  to £700 on 14 September 2015
from £700  to £1,000 on 12 October 2015
from £1,000 to zero on 22 November  2015
to £200 on 22 June 2015
from £200  to £300 on 20 July 2015
from £300  to £500 on 17 August 2015
Ref: DRN65678364But I dont think any of this credit shouldve  been offered.
Miss G also asked for any outstanding balance on the account to be written off in order to settle this 
complaint. Im going to ask Jacamo to recalculate her account,  taking in to consideration the fees and 
charges and interest that I dont think shouldve been applied. But Im not necessarily  going  to ask it to 
write off the entire balance  Miss G bought goods  using this line of credit;  shes had the benefit of the 
items she purchased,  and I think its only fair and reasonable  that she pays for those  items,  if she 
hasnt already.
Miss G also asked that any negative information  about these accounts  is removed from her credit file. 
And I think thats fair.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any more  comments  and evidence  that I receive by 17 February 2019, my provisional  
decision is that Im considering upholding this complaint and ordering  J D Williams  & Company 
Limited to:
(A) reconstruct the account by removing any interest and all the arrears  related  fees and charges  
from when the account  opened in November  2014  onwards;  and
(B) if that produces a credit  balance  for any period, credit interest on that balance for that period 
at 8% simple per year; and
(C) send  Miss G details of how the revised balance, the difference and any interest were  
calculated; and
(D) remove any adverse  information  on Miss Gs credit file from the time this account opened so 
that the credit file accurately reflects  the reconstructed account.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6567836