K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss S has said she was not told the policy was optional but I think  that Lloyds made it clear 
that the policy was optional  and that Miss S agreed  to take it out. I say this because  Ive 
been given a copy of the credit card application  completed at the time and I can see that this 
includes a section titled Optional features . In this section it includes boxes to accept or 
decline to take out Asset Payment Protection   the name used by Lloyds for PPI. On 
Miss Ss form I can see that the yes box has been ticked  to confirm that the cover was 
required. If Miss S didnt want to take out the PPI she could have ticked  the no box. Miss S 
has signed the overall application which suggests she agreed  with everything that had been  
entered.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such  as having unusual 
working arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition of which she was already aware.
And it seems she had a need for the cover. From what weve  been  told, Miss S would only 
have received statutory sick pay from her employer for six weeks  if she was unable  to work 
due to accident or sickness. But this policy would have paid out 5% of her outstanding 
balance for 11 months and would clear her outstanding  balance  if she was to be off for the 
full 12 months. This payment would  have been in addition to, and potentially for longer than,  
her sick pay. It would also have provided  cover for the same length of time if she was to lose 
her job. As Miss S didnt have any other means  with which to meet her repayments if she 
wasnt working, I think she could have found  this cover useful if anything was to have gone 
wrong.
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy  to Miss S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN64791022To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6479102