K821x#15complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Santander  UK Plc didnt offer him a competitive preferential mortgage 
rate product  when his previous rate ended. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019.  The contents  of my provisional  findings are 
attached to this final decision and form part of it. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I was minded to uphold  Mr Ls complaint in part. I invited both parties  to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
Santander accepted my provisional decision.  Mr L said he didnt share  my positive view of 
Santander and said the way the dispute  was processed was extremely  aggressive. He said 
it had taken over 300 hours of his time and caused genuine concern and upset,  and that 
should be reflected  in the compensation.
my findings
Ive reviewed everything carefully, and considered the case  afresh including  Mr Ls recent 
email in response to my provisional  decision.
I can see from his submissions  the determination with which Mr L has brought his complaint. 
He sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything Santander has done  (or not done). Thats 
a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely  understandable. I understand Mr L believes the 
valuation issue wasnt just a simple error, and was instead part of a sustained process where  
emails werent disclosed and he was told an individual that hed been dealing  with didnt 
exist.
Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively,  sometimes  taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what  Ive done. 
Santander was right when it told Mr L what rate(s) was available to him, the only mistake  it 
made was in a staff member thinking a new valuation might help. Im satisfied that was a 
genuine mistake  and was made in trying to help Mr L rather  than being  malicious.  
Whilst Mr L was put to some trouble and upset  there  was never  any guarantee, even if the 
valuation figure  had mattered, that it would have led to a better  rate being available.  I 
understand this has taken  time to resolve, but unfortunately thats  the very nature of dispute 
resolution, it does take up personal  time.  I have no power to fine or punish a business and I 
dont make awards for personal  time spent dealing with a complaint. Having considered  
everything Im satisfied the award  of £150 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN63603822my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, and order Santander UK Plc to pay £150 to Mr L for the 
trouble he was put to. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN63603823COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt offer him a competitive preferential  mortgage rate 
product when  his previous rate ended. 
background
Mr Ls held a mortgage with Santander (previously Abbey) since 2008, and at that time his property 
was valued at £900,000. In October 2012 his preferential rate ended  and his mortgage moved  to the 
standard variable  rate (SVR). 
Over a number of months  Mr L discussed with Santander if he could move to a new preferential rate 
but, each  time he asked,  it could only offer him rates that were higher than the SVR. This was 
because Mr L had suffered  recent financial difficulties, including arrears  on his Santander mortgage in 
2012 and January 2013.  As part of assessing the request  for a new rate, a re-valuation of the property 
was carried out in April 2013 but despite Mr Ls thoughts that his property was worth £1m, the 
surveyor only valued it at £675,000.
In March 2014  Mr L entered into an agreement with some creditors,  something that remained in force  
until September 2016.
In 2015 there  were further discussions about a potential new preferential rate. Another  re-valuation 
was carried out as Mr L was unhappy with the estimated valuation of just under £676,000 that was 
noted on Santanders system.  This time the property  was valued at £530,000 and various potential 
legal issues were  noted, such as that the title of the property had been split and queries over access 
to the property.
Mr L arranged for the split titles to be merged back into one, and provided information about  the other 
legal issues to show  all works had been correctly carried out, and there was a legal right of access to 
the property.  There were also issues with some adverse data that was recorded  on Mr Ls credit file, 
and charges secured  against  the property.
Santander said the best rate it could offer was 3.99%, but that would  be subject to legal  approval. Mr 
L replied to say that he had the option to apply for the 3.99% rate online. He then went ahead  and 
applied for that rate online.
In August 2017 Mr L was able to transfer to a new rate of 2.49% and in early 2018 he complained to 
Santander about not being able to transfer to a lower rate sooner.
Our investigator said Santander hadnt done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr L 
didnt agree  and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I trust Mr L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I have. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think  I 
need to comment on it in order  to reach the right outcome.
Where a mortgage has an initial interest rate  whether fixed or tracker   for a limited period, it reverts 
to the SVR at the end of that period.  Thats set out in the mortgage offer, and its how the mortgage is 
Ref: DRN63603824supposed to work. Based purely  on the terms of the mortgage offer, nothing  has gone wrong if the 
mortgage reverts to the SVR at the end of the product period.
However, most lenders  will consider applications for a new interest rate product when an old one 
expires. A new interest rate, at any particular level or at all, isnt a contractual  right. The borrower  isnt 
entitled to one. But where a lender makes rates available,  it must  treat its customers  fairly in deciding  
whether they can or cant have a new interest rate. Treating customers  fairly doesnt  necessarily 
mean treating them the same though. All lenders have criteria to decide  if a customer  is eligible for a 
particular interest rate  and Santander is no exception.
Santander uses various factors  to decide what rates  its willing to offer a borrower. These include 
factors about  the loan  such as loan to value and the length of the remaining term. And they include 
factors about  the borrower  such as how the borrower  is managing  other credit  as well as the 
mortgage. In essence, what Santander is doing is deciding how risky a mortgage and its borrower  
are, and setting the price its willing to offer based on the perceived level of risk. It has a range of 
rates and  broadly  the lowest rates are available  to customers  with the lowest level of risk.
Santander applied  these criteria to Mr L and, based  on that, it determined  what  products he was 
eligible for. Ive looked at what Santander took into account, and I think  it treated Mr L fairly in 
assessing what  rates  it was willing to offer him. 
Whilst Ive mentioned the loan to value  as being  a factor Santander takes into account, thats actually 
a red herring  in this case. I understand  why Mr L has placed so much significance on it as the re-
valuations carried out in 2013 and 2015  came in at significantly less than he said he thought his 
property was worth. But having considered all the information  provided Im satisfied that even if his 
property had been valued at (or in excess of) £1m in 2013 and/or 2015 then the products available  to 
him would still have  been  the same  due to the conduct of the mortgage account and/or adverse  credit 
elsewhere.
When Mr Ls preferential rate ended in October 2012  his mortgage moved to the SVR. Whilst  I 
understand why Mr L wanted a new preferential rate at that time Ive considered all the information  
provided by both sides and Im satisfied the rates offered by Santander were the only ones available 
to him. Thats  because  Mr L had recently  been  in arrears on his Santander mortgage and therefore he 
was classed as a higher  risk borrower and therefore offered less advantageous rates; that was 
allowed and so I cant say Santander did anything wrong there.
Whilst Mr Ls property  was valued for significantly  less than he thought  it was worth at that time, that 
didnt affect the rates he was offered as even if his property had been valued at the £1m he believed it 
to be worth the rates Santander was willing to offer him would have  remained the same due to the 
recent Santander mortgage  arrears  (and from October 2013 due to the other adverse  data that had 
been recorded on his credit file).
When Mr L asked again about a new preferential interest rate in 2015  he was in an arrangement  with 
his creditors.  Hed also recently been arrears on other mortgages he held. This meant Mr L was only 
offered higher rates due to being classed as a higher risk. 
Again, whilst Mr Ls property was valued at significantly less than he thought it was worth at that time,  
that didnt affect the rates he was offered. Even if his property had been valued  at the £1.1m he 
believed it to be worth  the rates Santander was willing to offer him would  have remained the same 
due to Mr Ls arrangement  with his creditors and the adverse data that had been recorded on his 
credit file.
That said, I can see Santander didnt make  that clear to Mr L and led him to believe a higher valuation 
figure could  help. This meant Mr L asked for a re-valuation of his property, and it raised his 
expectations that something could be done to agree a better  interest rate. Unfortunately that was 
wrong, but Im satisfied it came from a good place; an attempt by the Santander staff concerned to 
help Mr L, rather than any genuine attempt  to mislead.
Ref: DRN63603825As the actual value of the property is a moot point I wont be commenting  any further on that, 
including why the property  was valued that way and whether the valuation was impacted by lending  
policy and/or  the legal issues.  All I need to know to fairly  decide this complaint  is whether the rates  
offered to Mr L were  correct  at the time, and would have remained so regardless of property 
valuation. Having considered everything Im satisfied thats  the case and so I dont uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
However I do consider a payment is warranted for the trouble Mr L was put to when he was led to 
believe a re-valuation of the property  would help. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a 
business makes a mistake,  mistakes  do happen. In this case Im satisfied it was simple human  error 
borne out of an attempt to help Mr L. Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish 
businesses. Having looked at everything  and keeping in mind  the level of award  we normally make 
 I consider a payment of £150 to be fair and reasonable.
my provisional  decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties  by the 
due date, my provisional  decision is I uphold  this complaint but only insofar as I consider a payment of 
£150 for the trouble  Mr L was put to is warranted.  Im not minded to make any other order or award.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6360382