K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T say CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  mis-sold them  a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover their mortgage in 2003.
CIGNAs taken responsibility  for the sale, so Ill refer to it as the seller in this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs T applied  for a mortgage through a lender. At the same time, CIGNA  sold them 
PPI to protect their mortgage repayments.  The PPI paid a monthly benefit if Mrs T couldnt 
work due to disablement or unemployment.  
This was a single premium PPI policy. So the cost (£6,932) was added  to the amount 
borrowed and to be repaid over the 180-month term of the mortgage.  The PPI provided 
cover for the first 60 months  of the term. 
Our adjudicator believed  the PPI had been  mis-sold and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. CIGNA didnt tell us whether  it agreed  or disagreed, so the case  was passed  to me 
to review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Mr and Mrs T say CIGNA recommended the PPI to them. CIGNA says it didnt. I make  no 
finding on that issue because I believe the complaint  should  be upheld  even if no 
recommendation was made. Ill explain why.
If CIGNA sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs T without giving advice, it still had to give them  enough 
information to allow them to make up their own minds about whether the PPI was right for 
them. The information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think  it did that. I say 
that because,  for example, I cant see that Mr and Mrs T were  told the overall cost of the PPI 
over the term of the mortgage (if the mortgage ran to term) or how much  extra  they stood to 
pay in interest for the PPI over that period.  
The interest alone would have been  a significant amount, given Mr and Mrs T had entered  
into a long-term financial  commitment. In the circumstances I think  the missing  informations 
significant enough to have  affected  their decision to take the PPI. 
Overall, I believe Mr and Mrs T have  lost out because of how CIGNA sold them the PPI and 
that it should put things right for them.
putting things right
Mr and Mrs T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their mortgage  was bigger than it should 
have been. They paid more than they should have each  month  and it cost them  more  to 
repay the mortgage than it would have. So Mr and Mrs T needs to get back the extra theyve 
paid.
Ref: DRN63547152So, CIGNA should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between what  they paid each month  on 
the mortgage and what they would have paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between what  it cost to pay off the 
mortgage and what it would have cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs T paid from when they paid it until 
they get it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, CIGNA can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires CIGNA to take off tax from this interest. CIGNA must 
give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I require CIGNA Europe 
Insurance Company SA-NV to put things right for Mr and Mrs T as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2019. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6354715