K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about Charter Court Financial Services  Limited, trading as Charter 
Savings Bank (Charter), over delayed payment of a withdrawal from Mr and Mrs Fs 
savings account.  They want compensation for their inconvenience and for Charter to amend 
its system. 
background
Mr and Mrs F held two savings accounts  with Charter. These accounts had different notice 
requirements for withdrawals or account  closure,  with one account requiring three months  
notice to make a withdrawal, and the other requiring six months. 
Mr F gave  notice  to close one account, and this was scheduled for mid December 2018. Mr 
F then gave  notice in mid September 2018  to make a withdrawal of £8,000 from the other 
account. This notice  expired on 20 November 2018.  
At the time of giving  notice, Mr and Mrs F had a nominated account for withdrawals with 
bank S. 
In October  2018, Mr F contacted Charter and updated his nominated bank  account  to bank 
B. Charter  updated the details. 
On 20 November 2018, Mr and Mrs F received an email advising that their withdrawal could 
not be processed and asking  them to contact Charter.  
Mr F telephoned Charter. Mr F was advised  that the transaction  could not be processed  as 
the nominated  account from when he gave notice was no longer available. 
Mr F explained that he had updated the nominated account in the expectation that this would 
be used for his withdrawal  and for the funds from his closed account. 
The agent  advised that when a customer updates their nominated  account, Charters  system 
would not automatically update existing scheduled transactions.  The agent then manually 
updated Mr and Mrs Fs destination account details  for the two transactions. She advised 
that the withdrawn  funds  would reach  that account by the end of the following day. 
Mr F was not happy with this and made a complaint. He felt that Charter  should pay 
compensation for the delay from 20 to 21 November 2018 as he had expected the funds to 
be received on 20 November and had needed the funds. The agent  declined to issue  him 
compensation and escalated  his complaint. 
The funds were then received  by Mr and Mrs F on 21 November. 
Mr and Mrs F received Charters final response  letter in early  2019. It confirmed the 
information given  by the agent, that the system would not automatically amend existing 
instructions when a nominated account was changed. It directed Mr and Mrs F to the terms 
of the account  which  set out that when a transaction is made funds would then be received 
the next working day. Consequently, Charter did not consider that there  had been  a delay in 
Mr and Mrs Fs funds  being received and it did not uphold the complaint.  
Ref: DRN64483022Mr and Mrs F were  not happy  with that response  and contacted us. They said that the funds 
had been needed as a deposit for a property purchase and that the delay had substantially 
caused the purchase to fail. 
One of our investigators  has considered  this complaint and set out her view to the parties.  
This was that Charter had acted in line with its terms and conditions and that the funds were  
not delayed. She therefore did not recommend that Charter pay any compensation to Mr and 
Mrs F. 
Mr and Mrs F were  not happy  with that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also listened  to Mr Fs call to Charter on 20 November and appreciate Mr Fs strength 
of feeling over this issue. 
Before I set out my decision, I should  make  clear the limits of this service.  Over the course of 
their correspondence  with us, Mr and Mrs F have  indicated  that they feel that Charters 
systems are not fit for purpose  and they think  that an award of compensation may motivate 
Charter to change its systems. 
Our role is not to punish  businesses, or to change  their systems or processes. We look at 
individual situations and whether, in those particular situations, customers have  been  treated 
unfairly by a business. Where they have,  we can direct compensation to reflect the impact  of 
that unfairness upon the customer.  
In this situation, whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F have been  caused inconvenience and 
frustration by the funds  not being received on 20 November 2018, I can only look at directing 
compensation where it appears that that inconvenience was as a result of Charter  doing 
something wrong. 
It is not disputed  that the notice of the withdrawal request expired on 20 November 2018. Mr 
and Mrs F expected that the withdrawal would  therefore be received on that date, into their 
updated nominated account.  They appear  to have  relied upon  that in their property 
transaction. 
Charter has, however,  provided its terms which detail that once the notice has expired, the 
withdrawal transaction  would then be processed. The terms also explain that funds will be 
received into the nominated account by the end of the working day after a transaction  takes 
place. 
This would have been 21 November. As the funds were received on the due day, I do not 
consider that the release  of funds was delayed,  even  if it had appeared to Mr and Mrs F that 
the funds were due to be received on 20 November  2018. 
Looking then at whether  Charter  was wrong  not to have automatically  updated  the 
transactions when  Mr and Mrs F changed their nominated account in October. I can see why 
Mr and Mrs F would  expect that future transactions would have been  automatically updated, 
Ref: DRN64483023however this was not Charters system,  and I cannot  see that Charter ever indicated  that 
scheduled transactions would be changed.  
Mr and Mrs F were  notified promptly that the transaction could not go ahead, and were able 
to provide account details to ensure the transaction  could be made.  Whilst this may have 
been inconvenient to Mr and Mrs F, I do not consider that Charter  was wrong  to operate this 
system, and it does not appear to have  treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly. 
As a result, whilst I recognise that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F, I agree with the 
investigators view and do not uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Charter Court  
Financial Services Limited  to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6448302