K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds  decision to decline his claim 
under his employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr B was a member of his employers group income  protection insurance policy which  was 
held with Aviva. The policy would pay benefit,  after a waiting period of 28 weeks,  in the event 
that Mr B was unable  to perform his occupation due to illness or injury.
In August  2017,  Mr B stopped working due to anxiety and depression  related  to his 
workplace. Mr B remained off work and his employer  submitted a claim under the policy  on 
his behalf.
Aviva declined the claim. It noted that Mr B stopped working just as his work role had been  
coming to an end and before he started  a new role. It explained that under the terms of the 
policy its assessment of his incapacity  was in relation  to the role hed been performing 
immediately before he stopped work  rather than the role he was due to start. It considered 
that it was work-related issues rather than medical  issues which had caused him to stop 
working and that he hadnt been  medically prevented from performing the role hed been in.
Mr B denied that his absence was due to workplace, as opposed to medical, issues.  He said 
it was a direct result  of a series of TIAs and a minor stroke which  hed suffered in 2016 and 
which had left him with a cognitive impairment.
Aviva wouldnt  change  its position. Mr B therefore referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, it was 
fair for Aviva to decline the claim.
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He pointed out that hed attended an 
examination by an occupational health consultant in January 2018 who had concluded  he 
was unable to return to work except in a modified or restricted capacity and for no more than 
four hours a day.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr B had suffered  a series of TIAs and a stroke in 2016 which apparently  impaired his 
cognitive functioning. However, he had returned  to work following this and was apparently  
able to perform his role without difficulty.
In August  2017,  his employer told him his role was going to end and he would be moved to a 
new role. The new role, unlike his existing role, had productivity targets. According to his 
employer, Mr B didnt think he would be able to meet these targets  and this was causing him 
concern.
Ref: DRN65777532The day before his role was due to end, Mr B saw his GP complaining that he was feeling  
stressed and anxious because  he didnt  think hed be able to cope with the new role. His GP 
signed him off work due to Depression and anxiety  work  related stress.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr B is unable to perform,  on a full or part-time  basis, the duties 
of his job role as a result  of illness or injury. His job role is the job he was doing immediately 
before he stopped work.
I dont think the evidence suggests that Mr B was medically unable  to do his job role. He had 
been doing it without apparent difficulty even after hed suffered his health  problems  of 2016. 
His GP had signed  him off work but this seemed  to be in view of Mr Bs reaction to the role 
to which  he was being moved rather than concern over his ability  to do his insured job role. 
Similarly, the report by the occupational health consultant  who concluded that Mr B couldnt  
return to work unless his duties were modified seems to have been written  in relation to 
Mr Bs new role rather than the role he had been doing.
Mr B was concerned that he would be unable to do the new role to which  he was due to be 
moved. He had concerns that the adverse effects  of his TIAs and stroke  on his cognitive  
functioning would prevent  him from coping with this role. There is some medical evidence to 
support this. But this isnt the role which Aviva  was assessing him against.  I think  the 
evidence doesnt  support  that Mr B was medically  prevented from working in his insured  job 
role.
While I sympathise with Mr B, my conclusion is that it was reasonable for Aviva to decline his 
claim. I dont  think he was medically prevented  from performing his insured job role and the 
issue over his ability to perform a different role is really  a matter between  him and his 
employer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6577753