K820x#14Complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a Claims Management  Company (CMC),  complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected his claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect  of a timeshare.
Background
In March 2009 Mr B and his wife purchased membership of a timeshare from a company I 
will call T. It cost £7,899  which  was funded by a point of sale loan provided by Clydesdale 
which was repaid the following month.  The agreement was taken out by Mr and Mrs B, but 
the loan was in Mr Bs name alone and so I am considering his complaint against 
Clydesdale.
In August  2016  the CMC complained to Clydesdale saying  the timeshare had been mis-sold. 
It said they had been  sold a floating  contract which  had been declared illegal in 2015.  It said 
they had been pressurised and there had been  an unfair relationship. It added  that no 
account had been taken  of their financial situation.
The claim was rejected and a complaint  was brought to this service. It was considered  by 
one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  She concluded that the claim 
was made  outside  the time limit set down in the Limitation Act and Clydesdale  had taken a 
reasonable decision to reject  it.
Mrs B said she may have evidence that they had made a claim earlier,  but I have not seen  
any such evidence. The CMC said that Mr B only became  aware that he and his wife had not 
purchased a fixed week much later and the claim had been made in time.  It was only after 
the result  of a Supreme Court decision  in January 2015 that they understood the situation. It 
also said that T had gone into liquidation in December 2020  and so was unable  to provide 
the contracted services.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations,  relevant  regulatory rules, guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice. 
I will first consider if the complaint falls within the time limits under which we operate.  
Ref: DRN64415222Can we consider the complaint under DISP 2.8.2(2)?
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is Clydesdales  decision in early 2017 
to decline the claim  Mr B made regarding the timeshare, rather  than the sale itself.  Mr B then 
complained in February 2017, which is well within the six year time limit specified  in the 
rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought  within the time 
limits set under DISP  2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is that 
Clydesdale would not look into the claim under the Limitation Act. 
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr B 
has a like claim against Clydesdale  just as he would have against the supplier. So, if his 
claim against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired  under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account  when  it considers  claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. The CMC 
has said the timeshare  Mr and Mrs B bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they would have  six years from the date upon which they suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring  a claim. 
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes  of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim,  to 
work out when the clock starts running  under the Limitation Act, we need to work out 
when it would start if the claim  had been  brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of the 
complaint, I think damage occurred when  Mr B and his wife suffered a financial loss as a 
result of purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 
Ref: DRN64415223The CMC says Mr B and his wife say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, 
they paid to enter an agreement which has caused them  to suffer  a loss. They say that but 
for the misrepresentation, they wouldnt have entered  into the contract at all and wouldnt 
have paid any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in March  2009. Thats the moment when  they accepted any potential benefit under the 
contract, and it was also the moment they accepted  the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr B 
needed to raise his claim no later than March 2015. As I understand it, Mr B raised his claim 
in August 2016, which is nearly seven years  after the loss occurred.
Mr B may say that he wasnt aware he could  raise concerns about the misrepresentation 
until much  later. But the time limits  set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to 
run from the date of loss, which  may fall earlier than the date Mr B became aware  that 
something might have gone  wrong.   
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into this 
complaint. Under  s.140A,  the courts may make  an order  under section 140B in connection 
with a credit  agreement if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor  and debtor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors.  Only a court 
has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is unfair, but it is 
relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr B would have  
six years  from the date the related  finance agreement ended. From the information I have, 
the finance agreement ended in April 2009  so a s.140A  claim needed to be raised no later 
than April 2015. As I understand it, Mr B raised  his claim in August 2016,  which  is nearly 
seven years after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr B may have against 
the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against  the 
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account  when considering this s.75 claim  against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more  than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think  
Clydesdales decision not to look into this claim was fair. 
Ref: DRN64415224My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 August 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6441522