K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc failed to close his account in 2012  and has been 
sending account  information to his previous  address.
backgroundMr H says he received an e-mail  from Santander about his account but says his Santander 
accounts were all closed  or should have been  closed in 2012. Mr H says he made it clear to 
Santander he wanted his accounts closed and withdrew all his money from these accounts 
at that time. He also says he moved address  in excess  of four years ago and didnt tell 
Santander, which provides evidence for his assumption that Santander had followed his 
instructions. Mr H says Santander didnt  close  his ISA account and has been writing to him 
about it to his previous address which could have compromised his personal data. He would 
like the issue resolved and compensation for whats happened.
Santander says the ISA account is still open and has no record  of Mr H telling it to close  the 
account. It says it made the account  dormant  and wrote to Mr H about  this. It says Mr H can 
close the account by attending  a branch with documents it has asked for , and has offered 
him £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. He thought the 
account hadnt been closed and just because an account had a zero balance didnt mean it 
automatically closed.  The investigator thought Santander had given Mr H information on 
what he needed to do to close the account  and the gesture of goodwill offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr H didnt accept that view and says by closing one account that provides evidence that he 
told Santander to close the ISA account.  He says its more  likely Santander made  the 
mistake and questions  why the investigator says its not made a mistake but says the £25 is 
reasonable. Mr H also says he shouldnt have to go into a branch to close  the account.
The investigator replied  to Mr Hs points and said in summary that he agreed that Mr H 
wanted to close  the account but thought it unfair to say Santander should have presumed 
that was the case. He also thought that Santander  had written  to Mr H to tell him the account  
was dormant.
Mr H didnt agree with that response and in summary says he did tell Santander to close the 
account and its breached  data protection rules. He also says he closed his other Santander 
account without  attending a branch and questions  why he needs to attend a branch.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
I dont think there can be any doubt that Mr Hs intention  was to close his Santander 
accounts. I accept that he didnt tell Santander  his new address which I think  suggests  that 
Mr H assumed the account  was closed. There is also no doubt that the account wasnt  
closed. But I cant be certain why that was or if Santander made  a mistake or if it was the 
case that Mr H didnt  provide specific instructions to close the ISA account.  Due to the 
passage of time there isnt a record of what took place in 2012 so I cant  be sure why the 
account remained open.
Ref: DRN65791112The investigator has made clear that just because an account  has a zero balance that 
doesnt mean it should automatically close. And I can see that in March 2013 Santander sent 
Mr H an account statement showing a balance of £.60.  Mr H has told us in 2019 that he 
moved address  in excess of four years previous but he hasnt told me if he received that 
statement in 2013  or the exact  date he moved.  If Mr H had received that statement then I 
would have expected him to have contacted Santander at that time.
I dont think that Santander made a mistake by making the account dormant in 
circumstances where  it hadnt been used for some time. I dont think  thats the main issue 
here but I accept that by doing  so that means  Mr H has to attend a branch in order to close 
the account. I think it likely that will cause some inconvenience to Mr H. But I think 
Santanders gesture  of goodwill offer of £25 fairly  reflects that and takes into account, 
regardless of what happened, that some future inconvenience  will be caused. I appreciate 
Mr H says he should not have to attend a branch to close  the account but I think that sort of 
decision is a commercial decision that a business is entitled to make and not something I 
can fairly interfere in.
I appreciate Mr Hs concern that correspondence  from Santander was sent to his previous 
address. Mr H hasnt told me that his personal  data was compromised in any way .But for 
the reasons Ive explained, that I cant be sure that Santander made  a mistake, I cant  fairly 
hold Santander  responsible for any data breach.
Overall Im satisfied that Santander has fairly offered  to close the account and has fairly 
offered a gesture of goodwill payment that I think will take into account  any inconvenience 
attending a branch will have. I appreciate Mr H may not wish to accept  that offer and so will 
leave it to him to decide.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander has dealt fairly with this complaint and has made  a fair 
and reasonable gesture of goodwill offer. Mr Hs acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6579111