K820x#14complaint
Mr F say Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr F took out a PPI policy  in 1993 at the same  time as he applied  for a loan. He recalls it 
was in one of the banks  branches. He paid a monthly amount  for it and it gave  him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here)  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. Lloyds cant provide a policy document from the time of the sale so Ive relied on one 
from the nearest  available date and what we know about likely policy  terms at this time.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr F says he was made to feel like he had to have PPI to get the loan, and he only 
agreed as he needed  the banks support. Lloyds disputes this. I cant  know what  was 
said in the meeting  and none of the paperwork is available, but this isnt unreasonable  
given how long ago the sale was. Ive thought  carefully about what Mr F recalls but I also 
have to consider  how long ago the sale was and how that might  affect  what  he 
remembers. Overall,  without stronger evidence showing Lloyds didnt make it clear  the 
PPI was optional  and Mr F didnt agree to buy it, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this 
point.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F. And it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr F was self-employed so he wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay and hes told us he had no savings. The PPI wouldve paid out 
for up to the term of the loan for all accident  and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 
12 months unemployment cover. And its most likely the terms of the policy made it no 
harder for someone who was self-employed to make  an unemployment claim. Mr F 
argues he was in good health and has never needed to claim, but insurance cover  is 
valuable when circumstances change unexpectedly. So overall I think the PPI wouldve 
been useful to Mr F if he was sick, had an accident or became unemployed.
Its possible  Lloyds  didnt give Mr F all the information he needed  before  deciding  to buy 
PPI. Lloyds cant confirm the cost of the policy but I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest it was unaffordable for Mr F. I also dont know  if the bank pointed  out the main 
things its likely the policy didnt  cover.  However  Mr F doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the likely main  exclusions. So I dont  think better information about the 
policy wouldve  changed his mind about  buying  it.
It follows I dont think Mr F has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
Ref: DRN64008452my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6400845