K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Mrs K bought  the policy at a meeting  in 2001 at the same time as taking a further  
advance on their mortgage. Mr M was employed  at the time as a joiner  and had been there 
more than two years.  Mrs K was employed  as a shop assistant and had been there for more 
than 12 years. Theyve told us they were  entitled to less than 12 but at least  six months  full 
sick pay and that Mr M was entitled to 3 to 6 months redundancy pay and Mrs K to 6 to 
twelve months. 
The mortgage application Mr M and Mrs K signed says the further advance was taken to pay 
for home improvements, with a little to clear existing  borrowing. It says Mr M and Mrs K had 
£5000 in cash savings  at the time as well as £42,000 in other  investments - Mr M and Mrs K 
have told us they each had £15,000 in investment ISAs. 
Mr M and Mrs K have said Mr M had two and a half months off work with a stomach issue 20 
years before the sale. They  havent  told us of any other health issues. They  say Mrs K had 
multiple jobs. The mortgage application shows Mr Ms income was more than twice  Mrs Ks.
Subject to its exclusions and limitations, the PPI covered Mr M for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. For a successful claim, it offered  to pay Mr M and Mrs Ks monthly mortgage 
payment plus 25%. This benefit  was £229.35 initially and cost £13.89  per month.  
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2004. 
Mr M and Mrs Ks representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Mrs Ks representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Mrs K wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr M and Mrs Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr M and 
Mrs K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and Mrs K and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN69157892The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr M and Mrs K received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on 
the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr M and Mrs K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Ks 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN69157893The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mr M and 
Mrs Ks case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr M and Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN69157894-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M and 
Mrs K, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr M and Mrs K 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr M and Mrs K and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr M and Mrs K know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr M and Mrs K say they had no interest 
in PPI and say it was just included as part of the package  with their mortgage.  But to take 
the PPI, Mr M and Mrs K signed a separate PPI application form  PPI wasnt offered on the 
mortgage application form. So it looks like the PPI was presented  as something separate 
from the mortgage. Also Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr M and Mrs K were told they had to 
take the PPI or told they had to sign the application  form to apply for it if they didnt want  it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr M and Mrs K knew the policy was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr M and Mrs K havent said whether Halifax 
gave advice or not. With all this in mind, Im persuaded  Halifax  did give advice. This means 
Halifax had to advise  Mr M and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr M and Mrs K. The adviser had some  information about their financial  circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application,  like how long theyd been with their employers and their 
annual incomes  showing Mr M as the higher  earner.
Also the PPI application  form suggests  Halifax established that Mr M was the main income 
earner, worked full time, wasnt  aware  of any impending unemployment and hadnt been to 
the doctor in the previous  12 months for anything that wasnt minor. But I dont  think Halifax  
did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable  and establish Mr M and Mrs K had a need for it. 
For example, Ive nothing  to show that Halifax asked Mr M what about his work  redundancy 
and sick pay entitlements.  
Ref: DRN69157895Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M and Mrs K given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M and Mrs K, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy and the monthly cost appears  to have been 
affordable for Mr M and Mrs K.
-Mr M and Mrs K had a need  for the policy. If Mr M couldnt  work for an extended  period, 
it seems likely Mr M and Mrs K would suffer a fall in income. The PPI benefit would help 
them manage the consequences of this at what could be a difficult time if Mr M were  
unemployed or too sick to work. Also Mr M being  the higher earner could make his loss 
of income more significant for Mr M and Mrs K. Mr M and Mrs K had savings and other 
investments they had chosen to keep  rather than to use to pay for home  improvement 
costs or to reduce the mortgage or repay  other debt. The policy benefit, by helping  with 
mortgage related  costs  and so protecting their home, wouldve helped  Mr M and Mrs K 
keep those savings  and investments intact  or free to meet other liabilities.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M and Mrs K. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for them to claim.  As regards the health issue  Mr M has told us about, the policy 
terms didnt exclude disability claims arising from pre-existing health issues.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr M were  unable to do his job, or any similar job, and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover given  Mr M and Mrs Ks circumstances and in 
particular the loss of income they could  suffer  were  Mr M unable to work for a time due to 
disability or unemployment and the impact this could have on their ability  to pay the 
mortgage while preserving the savings and investments  they had chosen to keep and 
not use for the mortgage. Also the PPI protected payments relating to Mr M and Mrs Ks 
home and I bear in mind the potential consequences if Mr M and Mrs K were to have 
become unable to make repayments  on loans secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs K sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M and Mrs K were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, that it would protect their payments were  Mr M unable 
to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I say this 
because I think it unlikely  Mr M and Mrs K wouldve taken the PPI without any sense of what  
it was for and how much the premium might  be. 
Also, the PPI application form Mr M and Mrs K signed called the PPI Mortgage Repayments 
Insurance, said Mr M was the person who would be insured and set out the PPI cost for the 
Ref: DRN69157896anticipated mortgage payment. The actual cost and benefit would vary from this in line with 
variations in the actual mortgage  payment due - the cost and corresponding benefit for Mr M 
and Mrs K was actually marginally  lower initially than on the PPI application form. But the 
figures on the form wouldve still given Mr M and Mrs K a good  idea of what the PPI might 
cost and of what  they would  get in return for what they might pay for it  so what  I have 
makes me think it likely Halifax  made  Mr M and Mrs K aware  of these  things.
But Halifax  didnt tell Mr M and Mrs K the exact cost or benefit  amount before they agreed to 
the PPI, and the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave  sufficient 
information to Mr M and Mrs K about the PPI exclusions or limitations.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M and Mrs K, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr M and Mrs K all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Mrs Ks representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Mrs Ks. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr M and Mrs Ks representative considers to be poor value 
 and the fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr M and Mrs K about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr M and Mrs Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Mrs K have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr M and Mrs K? To what extent  did 
Mr M and Mrs K suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M and Mrs K. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
and Mrs K would  have still taken the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
Ref: DRN69157897While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M and Mrs K, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M and Mrs K have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mr M and Mrs K would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
the policy in any event. Mr M and Mrs K say they wouldnt have taken it and believe I should 
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M and Mrs K had some  interest  in taking PPI. By 
this I mean  when Halifax advised them there was a suitable product they could buy that 
would protect their mortgage payments  were  Mr M unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that product. But they made that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what they thought  they were  getting  is 
not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr M and Mrs Ks circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them.  The 
policy premium and benefit were slightly lower  than shown on the application form but, given 
how small the difference was, Im not persuaded Mr M and Mrs K wouldve found the cost or 
benefit unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figures when  they agreed to the PPI. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. Possibly  the most significant differences,  between  
what Mr M and Mrs K thought they had bought and what they actually bought,  were:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr M wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr M be unable to do his own 
job, or any similar job, and also unable to do any paid work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The PPI would pay out for up to 24 months,  rather than the remaining mortgage  term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr M and Mrs K pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Mrs K from taking the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr M and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it 
Ref: DRN69157898provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to Mr M 
and Mrs K should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  
to suggest Mr M wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  he was in 
permanent employment  and pre-existing health issues  werent excluded,  so the PPI wouldnt 
have excluded a disability claim arising  from his previous health issue.  So I think  Mr M 
and Mrs K still had some  good reasons  to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr M and Mrs K might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
and Mrs K from taking the policy, in their circumstances Mr M and Mrs K still had some  good 
reasons to take it.
If Mr M and Mrs K had known they could only claim for disability if Mr M were not only unable  
to do his own or any similar job but also unable to do any work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what to 
do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  but given their circumstances, 
on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr M and Mrs K that any claim they made would be limited to a 
period of 24 months. This may have differed from what  they expected and might have hoped 
for. But Mr M wouldnt have received full sick pay for even 12 months,  and his redundancy 
entitlement was significantly less than even 12 months income. So, given the loss of income 
Mr M and Mrs K could suffer if due to redundancy or disability Mr M couldnt  work for a time, 
I consider it likely they wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly  payments 
would benefit  them and help them manage  the consequences if Mr M couldnt work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed multiple  claims and could help 
reduce Mr M and Mrs Ks outgoings, making  it less likely their home  would be placed at risk 
and helping  to keep their savings intact  or free for other purposes at what  could be a difficult 
and uncertain time if Mr M were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr M and Mrs K would  still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr M were made  redundant, or unable  to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not Mr M and Mrs K 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr M and Mrs Ks representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
Ref: DRN69157899substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Mrs K would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr M and 
Mrs Ks circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
they found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  have been  
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr M and Mrs K believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Mrs K in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Halifax should pay Mr M and Mrs K compensation, as that would put them  in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Mrs K think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs K, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Mrs Ks representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and Mrs K and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find Halifax  had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M and Mrs K in a better position than if everything had happened 
as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN691578910Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6915789