K821x#15complaint
Ms G has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  handling of her car insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Ms G took out car insurance  with UKI in July 2017. Her annual  premium cost just under 
£380. Sometime in May 2018, around three months  before  the policy year was due to end, 
she asked UKI to add her son to the policy as an additional driver. UKI charged Ms G an 
additional premium  (AP) of around  £100 for the remainder of the policy  year.
In June 2018, UKI sent Ms G a renewal quote  for the policy  year starting in July 2018. The 
quote was based on her son being  covered to drive, although Ms G said she had earlier  told 
UKI that her son shouldnt  be included on the renewal policy.  The renewal premium was just 
over £740.  Ms G asked  her son to be removed from the policy  and for her renewal  premium  
to be recalculated. UKI said removing Ms Gs son reduced the premium  by around £20.     
Ms G thought that was too high as she had expected the premium  to be similar  to the 
previous years premium  before her son was added. She didnt go ahead with the renewal 
policy and went elsewhere.
Ms G complained to UKI. She said the price  increase was unjustified and that she had been 
treated unfairly.  UKI said they didnt do anything wrong. As Ms G wasnt  happy with UKI, she 
brought her complaint  to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that UKI 
hadnt acted fairly. He suggested that UKI should  pay Ms G £100 compensation. But as UKI 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Ive considered all of the information provided  to me by the parties very carefully. In this 
decision I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if UKI have 
dealt with Ms G in a fair and reasonable way.
When Ms G asked  for her son to be added to her policy towards  the end of the 2017 policy 
year, I think she expected  her premium to rise. But she didnt need  cover for her son the 
following policy year when  her policy renewed. It would seem that the initial  renewal quote 
which included her son was similar to the cost of the 2017 premium. She paid around £100 
to insure her son for the last quarter of the 2017  policy year. Had her son been insured for 
that whole  policy year she would have paid around £400 more  from the start, which would 
have meant  her premium  would have cost somewhere between  £750 and £800.
But when Ms G asked  UKI to remove her son from the 2018 policy, she expected her 
premium to be under £400, which is what she paid for the policy  year that started in July 
2017 before  her son was added. It is not the role of our service to tell insurers  how much 
they can and cant charge  their customers when providing motor insurance. But where a 
customer, like Ms G, complains we look to see if the insurer calculated their premium  fairly.
Ref: DRN61714632UKI gave  me information and explained how they calculated Ms Gs 2018 renewal premium. 
But from the information Ive seen, I dont  think UKI calculated Ms Gs premium fairly. When    
Ms Gs son was added  to her policy at the end of the first policy year,  UKI charged  her an 
AP to cover the change  in risk, namely that a new, younger driver was covered  to drive her 
car. As I've said above, UKI charged the equivalent  of around £400 a year more  to reflect  
that increased risk. In other words,  her premium almost doubled to cover  the additional risk 
of her son being insured to drive her car. But when  her son was removed from the renewal 
policy, that risk was also removed. But her premium didnt reduce in line with the reduction in 
risk, it remained almost  the same. So, I dont think the recalculated premium was reflective 
of the risk Ms Gs circumstances  posed, therefore it wasnt  fair. 
Ms G wasnt  under  any obligation  to accept the renewal  premium, and indeed she didnt. 
She took her business elsewhere.  But she was upset  with how UKI dealt with her to the 
extent that she felt it necessary to complain. I think Ms G experienced some  distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of how UKI dealt with her. For that reason, Im directing UKI to pay 
her £100  compensation to address that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance  Limited to 
pay Ms G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.  This 
should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Ms G has accepted my final decision.  If 
they pay later than that they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Ms G how much they have taken off. They should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6171463