K820x#14complaint
Mrs A and Miss A have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) mis-sold 
them a motor insurance policy and charged them too much  when they cancelled  it.
Mrs A is a named driver on Miss As policy. But as Mrs A bought the policy  on Miss As 
behalf and Mrs A has taken the lead in dealing with the complaint, for ease of reading,  I will 
refer to her comments as being in respect  of both herself and Miss A.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
background
Mrs A bought a telematics (black box) policy on Miss As behalf, which she paid for in 
monthly instalments.  When  she took it out she did so on the basis  that Miss A would drive no 
more than 8,000 miles a year. RSA then told Miss A she was likely to exceed that mileage. 
Mrs A then twice, in December 2018  and February 2019, paid for additional  miles at a total 
cost of around £672. Miss A then cancelled the policy. RSA told her that she still owed it 
around £421 for her premium.
Mrs A didn't  think RSA had dealt with her fairly  and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mrs As complaint.  He thought RSA had dealt  with the policy  
reasonably. Mrs A didn't agree so her complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
did RSA mis-sell  the policy?
Mrs As said that she thinks RSA mis-sold the policy, so I've looked into the sales process. 
Mrs A was initially  looking for policies online. She then phoned  RSA to discuss the policy. 
She rang it again  the next day to buy it. I've listened  to those calls in which Mrs A said that a 
mileage limit of 8,000 would be enough  for the year. She said shed based that figure on the 
car driving  around  21 miles  a day. 
21 miles a day would equate to 7,665  miles for the full year.  So 8,000 miles a year should 
have been enough for Miss As needs  at the time. Also it was apparent that Mrs A was 
aware that, if required, she could buy additional  miles. RSA told her that if she was going  to 
buy extra  miles then shed  be better doing  so in the first 33 days  as that was cheaper.  Mrs A 
said she'd be surprised  if the 8,000  miles were exceeded. 
Mrs A paid the premium  for a policy with an 8,000 mile limit. And I think  RSA only sold Mrs A 
the policy with the limits she asked for. It then sent her the policy paperwork. That also 
explained that if Mrs A wanted to buy more miles then she could do so. And, while  the price 
for that would be based on the black box data,  it gave  an indicative price  of how much  it 
might cost to buy extra miles.  And if after having considered  that information Mrs A felt the 
policy wasn't suitable then she could have  cancelled it within its 14 days  cooling off period 
without penalty.  But she didn't do so.
Ref: DRN68731962Im satisfied RSA only sold Mrs A the policy that she and Miss A said they wanted. I 
understand that Miss As circumstances  changed  shortly after,  which meant  that her daily 
mileage increased. As a result Mrs A bought extra miles until she decided that the policy  was 
no longer suitable and cancelled it. But I don't  think the fact that Miss As circumstances 
changed was anything RSA could have  predicted. So it couldn't  have known that shortly 
after Mrs A bought the policy  it would no longer be suitable  for Miss As needs. And I think  it 
did enough - when it sent Mrs A the policy documents - to give an indication  of how much 
extra miles were  likely to cost if Miss A needed  them. It follows  that I think  RSA gave Mrs A 
enough information to make an informed  decision about whether  or not she wanted to buy 
the policy. That was a decision for Mrs A and Miss A to come to between  themselves. So I 
don't think  RSA did anything wrong  in selling Mrs A the policy she asked for.
Did RSA apply unfair charges when she cancelled the policy?
Mrs A cancelled the policy when it was in its seventh  month. Mrs A had been paying for the 
policy in monthly instalments. And when she added  the additional miles to it she also spread 
the cost of those  across  the remaining instalments. As a result, when she cancelled the 
policy, RSA told her that she still owed it around £421.
I've noted  that, in line with the policy terms, as she cancelled the policy in the seventh month 
RSA charged her 71% of the full policy premium which was more than a proportionate  cost 
for her time on cover. This is because these  kinds  of policies are often taken up by young 
drivers and RSA has told us that it faces  a greater risk of having to pay claims during the 
early stages of an insurance  policy as opposed to the later stages. Also its explained  that it 
faces extra costs  associated with the black box at the start of the policy.  So as its costs and 
risks are loaded towards the start of the policy I think  its reasonable that it doesn't  provide  a 
pro rate refund. And as RSA made its charges clear at the outset  I dont think its done 
anything wrong  in charging  Mrs A those in line with the policys terms and conditions.
For completeness, Mrs A told us that she thought RSA hadnt  properly explained  the policy 
because some of Miss As friends also had complaints about  RSAs black  box policies. But 
as I've said above RSA only sold Mrs A the policy she asked for. And our role is to look into 
individual complaints, so the fact that Mrs A might know  other people who have also 
complained about a policy doesn't  automatically  mean that RSA has treated her unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6873196