K821x#15complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the way Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company  Limited  (LV) handled 
a claim under her home insurance  policy after a flood.
background
Miss B made a claim to LV for water damage  to her home. She moved  into alternative 
accommodation in order that LV could carry out repairs. Her parents looked  after her five 
pets  two large dogs and three cats while she was away from her home.
Miss B brought a previous complaint to this service about various aspects of the way LV 
handled the claim. After mediation  by our adjudicator in December 2016 LV and Miss B 
agreed that LV would:
pay her £8,000 compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused  her;
reinstate Miss Bs property in line with actions set out on a spreadsheet  agreed  between 
them with the works  being managed by a representative  from a local bathroom company;
ensure Miss Bs furniture and personal  belongings  were  properly stored  and protected  
while the works  were  being carried out;
arrange alternative accommodation  for Miss B on a block  basis  for 8 weeks  and pay her 
parking costs;
pay Miss Bs parents £75 a week  if they looked after her pets while the repairs were  
carried out;
amend the claim cost to £40,000;
three months  after the repairs were complete carry out a survey to see whether there 
were any underlying issues with the en-suite bathroom.
Lastly it was agreed that should any dispute arise  regarding  the repairs, an independent 
surveyor would be appointed at LVs cost to give an opinion on the works and both parties 
were expected to abide by the surveyors opinion.
Miss B left her home in April 2017 for the repairs to be carried  out. She didnt return home 
until June 2018.  She says she cant  have  her dogs back  at home  with her because  the 
decorator didnt  use washable paint.
Miss B complained that:
there were still outstanding snagging  issues;
she was supposed to be in temporary accommodation for 8 to 10 weeks but it turned  out 
to be 14 months;
her furniture had been damaged in storage;
she wasnt happy with her decorators  work;
shed had to go to her parents house every evening to look after her animals  while her 
mother was recovering  from an operation;
shed incurred  interest charges on her credit  card for her hotel costs;
shed suffered  a lot of stress and inconvenience; and
some light fittings had gone missing from her home.
LV said the representative requested by Miss B was getting all the necessary parts together 
so that he could complete the outstanding jobs in one go. It reimbursed her for her damaged  
Ref: DRN69384732furniture. It said it hadnt  instructed  the decorator,  so it wasnt responsible  for the paint finish.  
It paid for Miss Bs parents to look after her pets until June 2016 and also paid her travel 
costs for going round  to her parents house to care for the pets.  It said it wasnt  liable for her 
interest charges  as it had always reimbursed her promptly for her hotel costs. It didnt think it 
should have to pay Miss B any further  compensation.  It also didnt accept responsibility for 
the missing light fittings.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold Miss Bs complaint in 
part. I dealt with each  of Miss Bs issues in turn.
outstanding snagging issues
I understood that the main  issues still outstanding were the mirror  in the main  bathroom not 
working properly, hall floor not sealed,  a leaking shower tray and a scratched glass panel. I 
was told the parties  didnt  refer this to an independent surveyor  because there was no 
dispute as to whether or not they needed  doing  it was just that LVs contractor hadnt 
managed to get round to them  yet.
I appreciated that LV appointed a representative  chosen by Miss B to oversee/carry out the 
works. But to my mind  that didnt mean that there was no need for it to ensure the works  
were carried  out in a timely manner. Bearing  in mind the relatively straightforward nature of 
the works  I didnt think its reasonable that they should still be outstanding two years after the 
parties agreed a settlement in respect  of Miss Bs first complaint. Miss B said that shes  
constantly had to chase LV and the representative.  I was satisfied that was the case.
I thought LV had had long enough  to sort out these issues. I was minded to say if LVs 
contractor couldnt  resolve the outstanding  issues within 28 days  of Miss B accepting  my 
final decision  (if she did accept it), LV should appoint a different contractor to finish the 
works.
length of time in temporary accommodation
It wasnt clear  to me why Miss B was in temporary accommodation for about 14 months 
when the works were  only supposed  to take 8 to 10 weeks. I asked the parties to explain this 
in order that I might  consider further whether LV ought to pay any compensation to Miss B 
for trouble and upset caused  to her.
damaged furniture
LV agreed a settlement with Miss B of £5,420 in respect of this. Since Miss B accepted this 
and I hadnt seen any evidence that LV was taking advantage of her, I didnt  propose  to 
consider this aspect  any further.
poor redecoration
If an insurer chooses to appoint a contractor and pay them  to carry out the repair or 
reinstatement, the insurer  will be responsible  for putting matters  right if things go wrong. This 
is because the contractor was effectively working as the insurers agent or representative. 
On the other hand, if a consumer appoints  their own contractor  to carry out the repair or 
reinstatement the insurer  is only responsible for the cost of the works.  If things  go wrong, the 
insurer isnt responsible. This is because the contractor was effectively working as the 
consumers agent.  The consumer must  therefore take the matter up with the contractor they 
appointed.
Ref: DRN69384733Unfortunately for Miss B, she appointed the decorator. That meant LV wasnt  responsible  for 
his poor workmanship.
Inconvenience and expense of going to her parents house every  evening to look after her 
animals
LV paid Miss Bs parents £4,875, being  the agreed  rate, to look after her pets until the end of 
June 2018. It also paid at its standard rate her costs for travelling to her parents house  while  
she was staying in temporary accommodation.  I thought that was reasonable.
Miss B said that she couldnt bring  her dogs home because theyd mark the walls and her 
decorator hadnt used washable paint.  Because I didnt think LV was responsible for any 
failings on the part of the decorator, I couldnt  fairly hold LV responsible for the fact that 
Miss B couldnt have  her dogs home.
interest charges  for her hotel costs
I saw that Miss B incurred interest  charges  on her credit card account  at the time in question  
but I wasnt convinced  that these charges were  LVs fault. It said the maximum time it took to 
reimburse her hotel bills was 8 days and it was usually  less than that. Bearing  in mind the 
length of time normally allowed for credit card bills to be paid in full I thought these  charges 
could have been avoided. So I didnt think LV should have to reimburse them.
stress and inconvenience
In addition to any compensation  I might award  for any time Miss B had to stay in temporary 
accommodation unnecessarily,  I was minded to award her £500  compensation  for the 
trouble and upset  LV caused  her because she had to chase it and its representative 
constantly to try to move her claim along.  I was mindful that Miss B was suffering from 
various health problems at the time which made  the lack of support particularly upsetting  for 
her.
missing light fittings
No-one accepted responsibility for these items going  missing.  In the absence of any 
evidence supporting Miss Bs allegation, I couldnt fairly hold LV responsible  for these.
responses to my provisional  decision
LV didnt dispute the award of £500 compensation. It said the main reason it agreed  to pay 
Miss Bs representative to organise  completion  of the works was because  Miss B wasnt  
prepared to have  its contractors working  in her property. It thought  it would be better to let 
the representative finish the works when the materials became available since  there was a 
relatively small amount  left to do.
It said the repairs took much longer than expected for a number of reasons  Miss B 
changed some of the materials,  work  had to be redone as she wasnt  happy  with the quality, 
her decorators work had to be redone at LVs expense as it was of poor quality. But it 
thought the most important factor was that Miss B wouldnt return home  until everything was 
completed, no contractors  were  working at the property and all her contents  were  returned. 
LV said it accepted this until it reached the point when there was only very minor work to 
complete and it stopped paying the hotel costs at that point. It said normally it would have 
expected Miss B to move home when the property could be lived in.
Ref: DRN69384734Ive carefully considered  all the points Miss B made. In summary she said:
the many outstanding snagging  issues have meant she hasnt been able to put her house  
on the market yet.
there was no good reason for delay on LVs part.
she had to move home with a broken hand.
the business with her damaged furniture was very stressful.
she didnt  appoint  the decorator  LV asked her to find one.
the paint finish wasnt acceptable.
she said the amount  paid in respect of her travel  expenses  didnt cover wear and tear to 
her car.
her dogs have become attached to her parents now and will never return  to live with her 
which is very upsetting  for her.
she shouldnt have  had to pay her hotel  costs and only did so because LV didnt pay a 
previous invoice in full, leading to her having  to leave  the hotel.
the light fittings went missing while  LV was responsible for her home.
LV still isnt chasing the representative.
more snagging issues have emerged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party was keen on the idea of appointing a new contractor at this stage. I can 
understand Miss Bs concern about  it not being  clear  which  contractor would be liable if there 
were any faults with the work at a later date. Since shes also concerned  that further 
snagging issues have  come to light, potentially Miss Bs representative would still need to be 
involved in any event.  So it seems  to me less complicated for everyone if Miss Bs 
representative finishes  the job. But I hope  LV will be proactive in ensuring that the work is 
finished in a timely manner.
Im sorry  to hear that Miss B has become aware of more snagging  issues.  I cant  deal with 
those in this decision  - she needs  to raise these with LV and her representative first and if 
necessary, make another  complaint to LV. If shes not satisfied with the outcome of that 
complaint, she may be able to bring  another  complaint to this service but I hope that wont 
be necessary.
I note Miss Bs comments  regarding the decorator but unfortunately for her they dont 
change my view that LV isnt responsible for any failings on the part of the decorator 
because Miss B appointed him.
I now understand why the works  have  taken much longer than originally planned. I can see 
that there  were a number of factors contributing to that and they werent all LVs fault. Due to 
an earlier bad experience with LVs contractor Miss B was understandably reluctant to return  
home while people  were still working  in her property. The issues with her decorator also 
delayed matters. All in all, I dont think it would be fair for LV to take all the blame for the 
delay in Miss B staying  away  from home  and not feeling able to take her dogs  back  even 
though that was very upsetting for her. Ive taken into account the extent to which LV is at 
fault in awarding  compensation  for trouble and upset. Ive also taken into account the fact 
that what LV paid to Miss B for her travel costs  covered her fuel but not the wear  and tear on 
her car.
Ref: DRN69384735I think Miss B has been put to unnecessary inconvenience in having to chase the 
representative and move the claim along. She has outlined  very clearly how this has 
impacted her. I can understand that it must have been difficult for her to move home with an 
injured hand. But I think LV acted reasonably in offering her some help.
Overall, taking into account whats been paid previously, I remain of the view that further 
compensation of £500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive noted Miss Bs comments regarding the credit  card interest costs and missing light 
fittings. But unfortunately for her, there isnt sufficient evidence to persuade  me to change 
my provisional findings in those respects.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited to 
pay £500 compensation to Miss B for the trouble and upset its caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6938473