K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont extend the term of his interest  only mortgage.
background
Mr B took out an interest only mortgage  with Santander back in 2006.  Mr B originally 
borrowed £111,000  (plus £499 to cover some fees), over a term of five years.  Paperwork 
completed at the time said hed repay the capital balance by way of an investment when the 
term came  to an end.
When Mr B moved home in 2009,  he kept his mortgage with Santander  and ported his 
existing product. The mortgage was extended by an additional six years at that time.
Mr B wrote to Santander in 2010, requesting a further extension until he reached age 75. He 
said if hed not repaid  the balance by then,  hed do so by selling the property. Santander 
agreed the extension, with the term now due to run until November 2020.
In August  2016,  Mr B wrote to Santander again. He asked for assurances that hed be able 
to keep his mortgage past the age of 75, having  learnt this might not be possible.  Santander  
reviewed Mr Bs circumstances  but said it couldnt extend the term. It said Mr B could look at 
either converting the mortgage to a repayment basis  though  the remaining term meant that 
payments would increase considerably  or refinancing with another  lender, by way of a 
lifetime mortgage.
With no resolution in place, ongoing discussions ultimately led to this complaint being raised 
last year.
Mr B argues,  in summary, that:
When taking the mortgage out, hed understood that hed be able to extend  the term 
in future   Santander was agreeing terms that ran until customers  turned 90 back  
then. His adviser  had told him not to extend  beyond age 75, in case he wanted to 
switch to a new lender  at a later date.
Santander hadnt informed him of any changes to its age limits  over the years that 
followed, breaching its duty to keep customers properly informed.
While  noting some exemptions for financial service  providers  in the Equality Act 
2010, he didnt  think it was fair for Santander  to apply its age limit to long-term 
customers like him. Hed been  a longstanding customer, proving his creditworthiness 
by making all the mortgage payments  thatd  fallen due.
Mr B has also sent us medical  evidence that hes previously provided Santander with, which  
strongly advises that he avoids any level of stress  following  a heart  attack and the resulting 
surgery in 2017.  And hes told us that the governments Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI)  
scheme was now paying  45% of his monthly payments.
Ref: DRN61129562Standing by its decision not to extend  Mr Bs mortgage term, Santander says  also in 
summary  that:
Its policy doesnt allow mortgages  to run beyond  a customer turning 75, especially 
where theres no repayment method  in place.
Mr Bs original  application was handled  by an independent adviser  so Santander  
wasnt responsible  for any advice  hed been given about either the repayment  
method or possible term extensions.
Its specialist team would monitor the mortgage and Mr Bs circumstances  over the 
remaining term in case there was anything it could  offer in the future  particularly 
bearing in mind its policy was under constant review.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Bs complaint last month, explaining why I didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  
Santander has acted  unfairly in how its dealt  with Mr Bs request, so Im not intending 
to tell it to do anything further now.  Ill explain why.
information about extending  the term
Mr B says hed always understood, since taking the mortgage out back  in 2006, that 
hed be able to extend it. I dont know exactly what Mr B was told by his mortgage 
broker around that time, but I couldnt  reasonably  hold Santander responsible for 
advice or information  he was given by his independent adviser.  
The paperwork that Santander (then  Abbey National) gave Mr B about  the original 
mortgage clearly stated that the term was to run for five years.  It also confirmed  the 
banks understanding that Mr B had an investment policy in place that would be used 
to repay  the loan when it fell due. So I dont think Santander misled or misinformed 
Mr B about  the term at the outset  theres certainly  nothing in the paperwork it 
provided to suggest  that a term extension would be guaranteed in the future. And I 
think thats also true of the documentation Santander provided Mr B when  he ported 
the mortgage (and extended the term) in 2009,  and when the term was extended  
further in 2010.
Mr B is unhappy that Santander didnt tell him that it had changed its age limit in 
respect of the maximum mortgage term it was prepared to give. I wouldnt expect a 
lender to disclose  such details  of its own internal policy to its customers;  certainly not 
as a matter of course. And theres  no regulatory  requirement to do so. As a result, I 
cant say it did anything  wrong here either.
I think its important to point out here that in agreeing the original  mortgage  (and the 
subsequent amendments), Santander  made no representations about either the 
possibility of a term extension or the age limits  that it applied.  So I dont think  I can 
hold Santander  responsible for any decisions Mr B made based on the information he 
seems to have gleaned  about the banks policy from elsewhere.
Ref: DRN61129563the decision to decline Mr Bs request
Santander says its policy is not to allow mortgage  terms  to extend beyond  age 75 and 
so its declined Mr Bs request on this basis. Mr B says its unfair for Santander to have 
applied its age policy  and more broadly, the exceptions allowed to it under the 
Equality Act  given that hes a long-standing  customer whos  demonstrated his 
creditworthiness over the years. I dont think thats unfair  if anything  it suggests an 
even and consistent treatment of its customers.
I dont think Mr B questions Santanders  right to apply age limits under the Equality  
Act, as hes aware of the exceptions  that apply to financial service  providers. There are 
certain caveats to those  exceptions  but I dont  propose to go into them  further here 
as even if I were to say that the age limit was being unfairly applied, I dont think  it 
would lead me to require  Santander to extend  the term. Ill explain why.
Firstly, under the terms of the mortgage Mr B agreed to repay the capital he owed 
when the term expired.  When the term was extended in 2010,  he said hed so by 
selling the property by 2020. The starting  point here is that Santanders entitled to 
expect that money  to be repaid at the agreed  time.  
Were age not a factor, Id expect Santander  to consider Mr Bs circumstances in 
deciding whether or not to extend the term of his mortgage. The current  regulations  
would allow it some flexibility  in applying its usual affordability assessments  and 
ultimately it would  be allowed to make the change, and Id expect it to do so, if it were 
in Mr Bs best interests.  I dont think thats  the case here.
Mr B has an interest only mortgage   so when the term ends, hell have a capital sum 
to repay  to Santander.  Mr B has no means  of repaying that sum, other than by selling 
the property. I understand he intends  to then move into rented  accommodation. If the 
term was extended,  hed be in exactly the same position hes in now  but later in life.
Moreover, it seems to me that Mr B would be at significant risk of his situation 
worsening during  any extended term. Hed have to continue paying interest on the 
amount he owes  while also being vulnerable to any fluctuations that might occur in 
rates in the future. And as the SMI payments he receives from the government  are 
rolled up and secured  against the property by way of a second charge, these will also 
have an increasing  impact on Mr Bs level of equity in the property as time goes on. 
And naturally, the property would be at risk of any changes to the market  over time too 
 which  could also affect the amount of money that Mr B would have left over after any 
sale. I also understand from Santander that the property is a retirement home, and the 
provider is entitled  to 20% of the value  when its sold.
I appreciate what Mr B has told us about  his health concerns. But as I think  an 
extension would simply be postponing the situation hes currently dealing with until 
later in life, I dont think that would be a reason to grant it in light of his wider 
circumstances. By that time, his SMI claim will mean  he has significantly less equity in 
the property than he does now. And theres a risk that property prices fall or interest  
rates rise  or both  between now and then,  worsening his financial situation further. I 
recognise Mr B is in a difficult  position,  but I dont  think extending  the term would make 
things any easier for him. It simply postpones the problem, with the risk of making it 
worse.
Ref: DRN61129564Given all of this, I dont  think Santander  would be acting unfairly in declining  Mr Bs 
request even if it didnt  have a maximum age limit in place. So I dont  think I have any 
basis on which to require  it to extend  Mr Bs mortgage  term.  Santander has said that it 
will keep Mr Bs situation under review  and encouraged him to get back  in touch down 
the line in case  there  is anything  further it can do. I think  thats  as much as I could  
reasonably ask of it here.
recent changes to the mortgage
Santander has also told us that Mr B took out a new interest rate product in October 
2018, with the mortgage  term now due to run until January 2021.  Under  the terms of 
that agreement,  an early  repayment charge will apply if Mr B seeks to repay the 
mortgage before it ends.  
Santander says that, in recognition of Mr Bs circumstances, it will waive  that charge if 
Mr B fulfils  the plan hes recently outlined to sell the property  and move  into rented 
accommodation. But it says it requires confirmation from Mr B of his plans. For ease, 
Mr B can confirm  these to us in response to this provisional decision if he wishes. He 
may prefer to contact Santander  about this matter  directly.
I make  no comment  on this offer as it is not within the scope of this complaint.
Santander confirmed  it had received my provisional  decision  but didnt respond  with any 
further comments or evidence. 
Mr B didnt accept my provisional  decision. He maintained that hed been told by Santander  
from the outset that terms were  being extended  beyond a customers  75th birthday and that 
he ought to have been told that it had changed its policy in this regard  which  he believed 
was a regulatory requirement. He also said that he had now put the property on the market 
and would be moving into rented accommodation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Ive considered Mr Bs further  comments  hes not said anything that 
Id not taken into account in reaching  my provisional  decision. So with no new arguments or 
further information, I still dont think Santander has done anything wrong or that I can 
reasonably require it to extend the term of Mr Bs mortgage.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Ive not seen that Santander gave Mr B any 
assurance at the outset  that his mortgage  term could be extended. I note his reference to 
subsequent conversations  with branch staff subsequently. But even if I were to accept that 
such vague assurances were given  at some point, they wouldnt lead me to a different 
conclusion  as Mr B later went on to complete  two further extensions,  the paperwork for 
which was very clear on when the term would expire and what would  happen at that point. 
And again, Mr B told Santander that he would  repay  the mortgage by selling his home  when 
the term ended  which strongly  suggests he knew that he would have to repay the loan 
when the revised  term expired.
Ref: DRN61129565Mr B also says that the only way he could ever have  repaid the mortgage  was by selling  the 
property  calling into question that the original application form said he would do so by way 
of an investment. As explained in my provisional  decision, Mr B received  independent  
financial advice when  taking out the mortgage,  and that adviser wouldve been responsible 
for discussing how he would repay  it  and for passing on that information to Santander. If 
that information wasnt correct, thats  not something  I could  reasonably hold Santander 
responsible for  as I cant see why it ought to have had cause to question it at the time.
I know that Mr B is still of the view that Santander is required to disclose changes  to its 
lending criteria to its customers,  but Im afraid  that simply isnt the case.  A banks internal 
lending policy is commercially  sensitive  and its finer detail changes  frequently.  Its not 
practical or reasonable to expect this to be disclosed as a matter  of course and theres no 
regulatory requirement to do so. So I still dont  think Santander did anything wrong in 
changing its age limit and declining to notify Mr B (or its other  customers)  of that.
I appreciate this matter  has been very stressful for Mr B and its put him in a difficult position. 
And Im sorry to read of the continuing  impact this has had on his health.  But as I dont  think 
Santander did anything  wrong in how it provided  the mortgage  or declined to extend it, I 
cant require it to take any further action  now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6112956