K822xComplaint
Mrs M, represented  by Mr M, complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA)  with Oodle Financial Services Limited (OFS) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Background 
Mrs M entered into a HPA with OFS in July 2017  to acquire a used vehicle. She says that 
she experienced issues with the vehicle shortly after acquisition and that the vehicle had to 
been returned to the dealer on several occasions. She said that although repairs had been  
carried out the vehicle still wasnt running  as it should. Mrs M contacted  OFS in July 2018 to 
explain the issues and to say the repairs hadnt  resolved these.  
In 2019, Mrs M was told that a new engine was required. She says that she hasnt had much 
use from the vehicle  due to it having  to go in for so many repairs  and given all the issues she 
has experienced she doesnt  believe it was fit for purpose at the point of supply.
OFS says that Mrs M contacted in July 2018, to say her vehicle had needed to be returned 
to the dealer on five occasions  due to various  faults. At this time she said there  was a 
knocking noise  that she wanted  inspected and repaired. It explained that as more than six 
months had passed  since  acquisition  the onus was on Mrs M to show  there  were  issues 
present at the point of supply. However it offered to contact the dealer on Mrs Ms behalf.
On 8 August  2018, OFS say that the dealer provided a list of the repairs that had been 
carried out and said that Mrs M had used her own garage for repairs  which she had then 
asked the dealer to pay for. The dealer said that after discussions it offered to contribute  
towards these. As Mrs M had approached OFS, OFS says that the dealer said it would  book 
the vehicle in to investigate the faults  but advised  these may not all be covered by the 
warranty.
The vehicle was taken  to the dealer and OFS says that on 6 September 2018, Mrs M 
contacted it to say she wanted OFS to pay £900 for the repairs.  Mrs M said that she had no 
choice but to authorise the repairs as the dealer had said that it wouldnt fix the vehicle  if she 
didnt. OFS says that it discussed the case with the dealer and agreed Mrs M needed to 
provide evidence to show  that the issues were  present from the point  of supply.
In March 2019, OFS says that Mrs M contacted it to say she was still experiencing issues 
with her vehicle and that the dealer had said it needed a new engine  and had said she would 
be charged storage  fees while the vehicle  was left with it. OFS said that it provided Mrs M 
with her options at this point. 
Following Mrs Ms complaint being  referred  to this service, OFS offered to contribute £1,500 
towards the cost of the repairs and said that the dealer  would also contribute  £1,500. The 
warranty company confirmed that it wouldnt  cover  the costs.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  evidence to say that the cause of the engine 
failure was an issue  that was present  at the point of supply.  She thought the offer made by 
OFS and the dealer  to contribute towards the repairs  was reasonable.
Mr M, on behalf  of Mrs M, said that they didnt want to have to pay towards the repairs. 
Ref: DRN67894022My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mrs M acquired  a used vehicle through a HPA with OFS.  Under the regulations,  specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), OFS can be held liable  if the vehicle wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the vehicle and what a reasonable person  would  expect taking 
into account all the circumstances.  The vehicle in this case  was approximately seven years 
old at point of supply with a mileage  of over 70,000.
Mrs M has explained that she experienced a number of issues  with the vehicle in the first 
year and that these  started shortly after acquisition. These issues  were raised with OFS in 
July 2018, a year after acquisition.  Given when  the issues were raised I do not find it 
unreasonable that OFS asked for further evidence to be provided  to show that any issues 
were present  from the point of supply.
I note that the vehicle  passed a MOT dated  1 August 2017, which suggests the vehicle was 
fit for purpose at the point of supply. However,  even  having passed  an MOT there could  
have been issues  that were  developing at acquisition or were not identified in the test and so 
I have considered further the issues that have been  raised and work undertaken.
I have looked  at the job cards and other information that has been provided  to understand 
the issues that were  reported and the actions that were taken in the first year. The dealer 
provided information to say that in September 2017, a slight knocking noise was reported  
and it seems work was carried  out. In October 2017,  further investigation was requested and 
the vehicle tested but no fault found. In February 2018, another garage carried out a road 
test and again a fault wasnt found.  The vehicle then broke  down due to the fuel gauge not 
working and repairs  were undertaken and the door lock was also replaced. The dealer says 
repairs were carried out by Mrs Ms choice of garage. I do not have any further details 
regarding these issues and unless I can say the issues  were caused by faults  present  at the 
point of supply  and the dealer didnt carry out reasonable repairs  I do not find I can require 
OFS to do anything further in regard to these issues.
In September  2018, the vehicle was investigated and a number of issues were identified.  At 
this time the vehicle  had been  driven over 80,000 miles, so Mrs M had been able to drive  it 
around 10,000  miles since  acquisition. Given the vehicle was seven years  old at acquisition  
and had already  been  driven over 70,000  miles wear and tear items would be expected. I 
have looked through the repairs carried out in September and can see a number of these 
were under warranty. The items that werent covered by the warranty  related to the braking 
systems and the seat switch which I find more likely than not would have arisen due to wear 
and tear given  the mileage that had been covered by this time. The vehicle then passed a 
MOT at this time. Based on the evidence I have seen I do not require OFS to do anything 
further in regard to the costs incurred at this time.
The main  issue in this case  is that the engine failed in 2019. I have looked through  the 
reports from the time and can see a roadside recovery company  report  dated 3 February  
Ref: DRN678940232019 saying the vehicle  was making a loud knocking  noise and shouldnt  be driven. At the 
point of recovery the vehicles mileage was just over 85,000. 
While I can understand why Mrs M is upset that the vehicle required such major repairs 
within the first two years of her ownership,  for me to uphold this complaint I have to be 
satisfied that the engine  failed due to faults  that were present or developing at the point of 
supply. With used vehicles it is possible that major issues can occur shortly after acquisition 
even though they werent present when the vehicle was supplied.
In this case, Mrs M had been able to drive  the vehicle around  15,000  miles before the engine 
failed. The vehicle  had passed two MOTs (one at supply ad one the following year) and no 
major issues had been identified. An independent  inspection report was carried out on the 
vehicle in February 2019. This concluded that there had been insufficient oil in the sump  at 
some point resulting  in further damage.
So while I note the comments on the recovery report about  a knocking sound  and that a 
knocking sound had been raised  when the vehicle had been returned on previous occasions 
on balance, I do not find I can say, without further evidence,  that the issues  that caused  the 
engine to fail were present at the point of supply. Given  the age and mileage of the vehicle at 
acquisition and the time that passed and mileage covered before the engine failure, I do not 
find that I have enough  evidence to uphold this complaint.
OFS and the dealer  offered as a gesture of goodwill to contribute  £1,500  each towards the 
repairs. However I note that storage costs have  been incurred by the dealer  that have now 
exceeded the contribution  offer. As I do not find I have enough to uphold this complaint I can 
only say that if Mrs M wishes to accept the offer made by the dealer and OFS (and I would  
hope some  arrangement would be found regarding the storage charges) she should discuss 
this directly with them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. If Mrs M wishes to discuss  the offer 
made by Oodle Financial  Services  Limited in regard to contributing  towards the repairs  she 
should discuss this directly with it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6789402