K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society, mis-sold them the 
PPI.
At the time,  the PPI was sold by Derbyshire Building  Society,  which was later taken  over by 
Nationwide Building  Society. So in my decision when talking about the sale of the policy  in 
and around 1991, Ive referred to Derbyshire  Building Society. However,  when talking about 
what the business may or may not need to do now, Ive referred to Nationwide  Building  
Society.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs W say there was no mention  of PPI at the time. But based  on the evidence Ive 
seen I think Mr and Mrs W were aware of the PPI at the time, and decided to take it out  
knowing it was something they didnt have  to have. But I can understand if they dont 
remember this now. I say this because Ive seen a copy of a separate PPI application form 
which Mr and Mrs W saw and signed. This application form was separate and additional to 
the forms they wouldve completed when taking out their mortgage. And I can see that this 
PPI application  has been completed to say that Mr and Mrs W wanted  to take out accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover in Mr Ws name  only.  Mr and Mrs W signed this 
application form  so I think this reflected what they wanted at the time. 
Derbyshire Building  Society didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for Mr W (as the insured party). But it did have to make  sure 
Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Derbyshire Building Society gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. Mr W has told us that he was self-employed  at the time of taking  
out the policy. However, Derbyshire Building Society  has provided evidence  which  suggests  
Mr W was employed  at the time. So I think its likely  he was employed and not self-employed 
when he took out this policy. But even  if I accept that Mr W may have been self-employed,  
from the evidence  available  from around the time the PPI was taken out it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Ive also considered  
that Mr and Mrs W have said they didnt have any savings and Mrs W wasnt  working at the 
time - so I think  the PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr W suddenly wasnt able to 
work. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W has said - including what theyve said about  not 
claiming on the policy when Mr W was out of work   because they didnt know they had it. 
But as Ive already outlined  above, I think Mr and Mrs W were  aware  of the PPI at the time 
Ref: DRN65578552they agreed to take it out. Its possible that when Mr W was no longer working  they had 
forgotten that they had PPI, or had forgotten what the policy  covered them for. However, this 
isnt Derbyshire Building Societys fault. Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs W didnt renew their 
policy when it came to an end so they only had the policy  in place for one year,  and it might 
be that at the time Mr W was out of work  he was no longer covered by the policy.  But this 
doesnt change  my mind  about what happened when the policy  was sold and so I cant  fairly 
and reasonably uphold the complaint on this point.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on their PPI  and whether 
Derbyshire Building  Society treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide Building  Society has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was 
less than half of what they paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Nationwide  Building 
Society has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks  like its right  
Mr and Mrs Ws commission  was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont 
think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  Nationwide Building 
Society treated  them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs W back any of 
the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6557855