K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that a car she financed through an agreement  with FirstRand  Bank  
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo,  was faulty  at the point of supply.
background
Miss W took receipt of a used car in July 2017.  The car had completed  53,000  miles at this 
point. Miss W financed  the deal through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo.
Miss W complains that the car has frequently failed to start since she took receipt of it but 
because the fault is intermittent the garage  has been  unable  to identify a problem.  Miss W 
says shes had to call a breakdown service  several  times.  Ill call the breakdown service Z. 
The history  of breakdowns and inspections is listed in the following table:
Date Issue Report
29 September 2017 car wont start no fault found  by Z
28 October 2017 dealership inspect car. No fault 
identified over several days. No 
fault codes noted.
2 November another garage repeat  checks. No 
fault.
28 November 2017 breakdown Z says car started  when they 
arrived and cant identify an 
issue. They advise a change of 
fuel filter.
20 January 2018 Breakdown Z finds  fault codes regarding 
atmospheric pressure  sensor 
and alternator indicator lamp  
malfunction. 
4 April 2018 breakdown Z couldnt  resolve problem. 
Car taken to garage. Car has 
completed 85,000 miles 
9 April breakdown Z found oxygen sensor fault 
and exhaust gas recirculation 
(EGR) valve fault
Miss W complained to MotoNovo in October  and they arranged  for the dealership  to inspect 
the car but no problems could be identified despite prolonged inspections  and a third partys 
opinion. They therefore explained that, as they couldnt identify a fault with the car, they 
couldnt take any further action.
Miss W referred  her complaint to this service  and our investigator took a look at the 
evidence. She also provided information about  the breakdowns shed had that Z had 
attended to. Our investigator explained  that hed need to be persuaded that there  was 
evidence to suggest the car was faulty or developing a fault when Miss W took receipt of it. 
But he didnt  think that was the case. He noted  that at the time Miss W complained to 
MotoNovo there had been no demonstration of a fault at all. Whilst Miss W had called Z out 
in September,  they had been  able to start the car and couldnt find anything wrong. And 
neither could the dealership or the third party theyd asked for a second  opinion. 
He reviewed the additional information Miss W had provided about the additional  call outs Z 
had attended. He noted that the first time a fault code was identified  was in January,  more 
Ref: DRN63079802than six months since Miss W took receipt of the car. He wasnt persuaded that the fault 
code identified showed a problem existed  at the point of supply and he wasnt persuaded 
that the subsequent call outs, in April, could be said to relate  to a problem at the outset of 
the agreement. So he didnt think it would  be fair to ask MotoNovo to take any further action.
But Miss W disagreed. She said it was clear that there was a problem and shed provided  
evidence of this. She explained that the car broke down most days  but she couldnt call the 
breakdown services out daily. She insisted that it was unreasonable to expect her to 
continue with a vehicle that experienced so many problems and she therefore asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres enough evidence to support Miss Ws complaint here. I know  it will really  
disappoint her and I have no doubt  shes been  experiencing problems but please let me 
explain why I dont  think it would  be fair to hold MotoNovo responsible  for those  problems.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss W acquired  her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then MotoNovo are 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
MotoNovo to put this right. 
But MotoNovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Miss W says shes been experiencing problems with the vehicle since  at least  September  
2017. But the first evidence  we have of anything wrong with the car is at the end of January, 
more than six months after she took receipt  of the vehicle. It could be that the alternator  
indicator lamp fault related  to an electrical issue but Ive not been provided  with any 
evidence of any repair that was necessary so its difficult to establish  what the issue was. 
Similarly, in April the car appears  to have been taken to a garage when Z couldnt resolve a 
fault but Ive not been provided with any evidence of that repair either or any repair that was 
necessary after the April 9 report.
Ive considered whether it would be fruitful to ask Miss W for this information. But I dont  
think that, even  if it was available, it would change  my mind. Its been  more than six months 
since the agreement  started and the car has now completed more  than 30,000  miles which 
is much  more than average. I think its much more  likely that any electrical  fault, that hadnt 
been identified  in the first six months,  was not present  or developing at inception of the 
finance agreement  and is more likely to have developed subsequently.
Ref: DRN63079803I know this is disappointing for Miss W. She is concerned that shell  need  to pay for the car 
for the full term but may wish to review the voluntary termination clause in her contract. This 
says she can end the agreement by returning the car when shes  paid at least half of the 
amount due under the contract. It may give her an opportunity to leave the agreement a little 
earlier if she chooses. But Im afraid  I havent  been persuaded that, in these circumstances, 
MotoNovo need  to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6307980