K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Leeds  Building Society  mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance  
(PPI).
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in 2002.  This complaint  is about a PPI policy  he took out at the 
same time to protect his monthly  mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that the policy terms meant  that Mr K 
wasnt covered for accident and sickness claims if they resulted from an existing medical  
condition he had. So, if he needed  to claim for this condition, the policy  wouldnt meet his 
needs. Our adjudicator felt that Leeds  Building  Society shouldnt  have recommended  the 
policy without pointing  this out to Mr K. And that its unlikely that he wouldve taken out the 
policy if it had.
Leeds Building Society disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint came to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision.  
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Theres only limited  information now available from when Mr K took out his mortgage and 
the PPI. Leeds  Building Society  no longer has any paperwork for Mr Ks mortgage account. 
Thats unsurprising after so long. Mr K says he never spoke to anyone  about this policy  he 
thought hed applied by post for his mortgage that came with 6 months  free PPI. But Leeds 
Building Society says Mr K arranged his mortgage, and the PPI it recommended  him to 
have, over the phone, though he was then sent paperwork  to sign and return by post. And 
I think thats likely to be right 
If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable  steps to make  sure any 
cover it recommends is suitable.  So, to be as fair as possible to Mr K, as this puts that extra 
requirement on the business, Im going to look at this complaint  on the basis  that Mr K spoke 
to someone at Leeds Building Society and it advised  him to take out the PPI. 
Leeds Building Society doesnt have a call recording or a sales script  so I cant be sure 
exactly how it explained PPI to Mr K. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr K to 
remember what was discussed  at the time. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his mis-sale complaint. I must take into account  all the 
information Ive got and the wider circumstances  when deciding  what I think  is most likely. 
Mr K was eligible for the PPI policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied.
From what  hes told us, Mr K understood that PPI was being offered free for the first 
6 months with the mortgage he applied for and it appears he was happy to sign up for it on 
that basis. So I think he was probably  persuaded by what was discussed during the phone 
call with Leeds Building Society  that PPI offered him useful benefits and Mr K chose to have 
it.
Ref: DRN64672692I think the PPI Leeds Building Society recommended to Mr K was suitable for him, looking at 
what hes told us about his circumstances. 
For the first 6 months,  the policy covered Mr K for accident, sickness  and unemployment  and 
it wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim. This was significantly longer than Mr K 
couldve depended on getting sick pay from work.  
Mr K says he had a five figure  amount of savings he couldve used to pay his mortgage. It 
looks like his savings were available  at short notice if required and he told us that the 
money wasnt earmarked  for anything in particular.  He also mentioned that selling shares 
was something that he could arrange very quickly.
But it seems  to me that he preferred not to spend his savings, or he had other plans for 
that money,  since he took out this mortgage  rather than invest  all his savings in buying  his 
house.
And I dont  know if Mr K wouldve always had savings he could rely on to pay his 
mortgage if hed needed to make  a claim  having  PPI meant he could keep any savings 
intact to provide continuing financial security for the future. 
Having PPI also meant Mr K wouldnt have  been  forced to sell any shares, which  I think 
he probably wouldve  either preferred to keep as a long term investment  and/or sell when 
he could be sure of getting a good  price. I think that having cover  in place so he couldve 
continued to make his monthly mortgage repayments without having to sell investments 
or draw on his savings  wouldve provided  a useful extra  benefit  to Mr K if he couldnt  
work.
Mr K told us he also received an income of £500  a month from letting a room in his 
house. Ive taken into account  that Leeds  Building  Society says this wasnt allowed  under 
the terms of his mortgage. I dont think thats a reason for me to disregard rental income  
that Mr K had at the time. But Ive kept in mind that rental income wasnt  something he 
couldve always been sure hed be able to depend  on getting. Its possible he mightnt 
have always wanted  to continue having  a lodger  and he cant have been  sure hed 
always be able to find a suitable replacement lodger if hed needed to in time to avoid any 
break in rental income. 
Mr Ks mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  Under the 
policy he was able to make repeated claims. This means the policy provided long term and 
dependable protection for the mortgage.  So, taking  into account  everything hes told us 
about his financial  circumstances,  I think the policy still couldve been useful to Mr K.   
Ref: DRN64672693Its possible  some of the information  Leeds Building Society gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. There  were  some things the policy  didnt cover. Ive taken into 
account that Mr K has a medical condition and he probably wasnt  covered for absence  from 
work as result  of this condition. But he told us hed never had to take significant time off work  
for this condition. Mr K said it didnt  affect his day to day life and was successfully controlled 
with self administered  medication, as and when required. So, when getting  his mortgage, 
I think Mr K wouldve  thought it unlikely hed have  needed to claim under the policy  for any 
absence from work  related to the health issue hes brought  to our attention. For this reason, 
I dont think its likely  that having more information about this policy  term wouldve made any 
difference to his decision at the time to take out the cover. 
Leeds Building Society wrote to Mr K at the end of the free period to advise him what  hed 
have to pay to keep the policy running.  At this point, Leeds Building Societys records say 
Mr K amended his policy from full accident, sickness and unemployment cover to accident 
and sickness cover only. Mr K has pointed out that the letter said it was a very important 
policy to continue. But I think he was aware that it was open  to him to choose  what  level of 
cover he wanted to have   if any. Mr K appears to have been happy to pay for the reduced 
level of cover he wanted when he chose to keep the policy running. It seems to have been  
affordable for him. And as he paid for the policy each month,  Mr K couldve cancelled  it at 
any time without losing out financially  - as he later did in 2007, when Leeds  Building Society 
cancelled the insurance at his request.
Taking everything into account,  I think it unlikely Mr K wouldve made  a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  On balance, I think  he still wouldve taken  out the 
policy  and chosen to keep it running  after the end of the free period. 
So Leeds  Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Leeds  Building Society will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Leeds Building Society got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr K about  that. Because Leeds Building 
Society didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Leeds Building  Society  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN64672694what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Leeds Building society says it has nothing further to add. 
Mr K has sent me some further  paperwork and he still thinks I should  uphold his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mr Ks main concern seems to be that the PPI was initially added  on to his mortgage without 
his knowledge  or consent. And I can see that during the course of his mortgage  application  
he did first of all say that he didnt want to have it. But, on balance, I still think  its more likely 
that during the mortgage application process,  he then decided that he did want to take 
advantage of the benefits the policy  offered  especially when he understood that those 
benefits were available to him free of charge at the outset.  Given that PPI was offered  at no 
cost for six months and it provided  valuable protection for someone  in Mr Ks protection 
I think on balance its unlikely that he wouldve declined the policy. I think  it was taken out 
with his knowledge and agreement when he indicated he wanted to have it.
When Leeds Building Society  wrote to Mr K at the end of the free period to advise him what 
hed have to pay to keep the policy running  he didnt simply continue the existing cover  he 
tailored it to meet his particular  requirements  at the time. So I think  Mr K understood that it 
was up to him to decide if he wanted to pay to keep the policy  running and it was his choice 
to have accident and sickness cover. 
Ive taken into account that Mr K says he took out this cover  only after Leeds Building 
Society encouraged  him to do so without any reference to whether it was suitable for him, 
bearing in mind that it was aware he had an ongoing  health  condition. 
Id like to reassure Mr K that when  I issued my provisional decision I did think carefully about 
this. Given the lack of paperwork, I felt it was fair to look at what had happened on the basis  
that Leeds Building Society recommended the PPI to him. This gave his complaint the best 
chance of success  as it meant Leeds  Building  Society shouldve  taken steps  to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for Mr Ks particular needs. 
I absolutely accept that Mr Ks condition  is significant  in terms of the impact and the potential 
consequences it has on his health. Nothing Ive said should be taken to mean that I dont  
appreciate that its a condition he has to live with and take active  steps to manage every  day 
of his life.
But Im looking at whether  having this condition makes the policy  unsuitable for him. And 
I cant see that any of the conditions  that mightve limited  the policys benefit to him were 
likely to impact  on Mr K being able to make a successful claim. Thats because Mr Ks 
condition hadnt  ever required him to take time off work  and certainly not for the length of 
time hed have had to be off work  in order to make a successful claim. 
Ref: DRN64672695So I still think its unlikely that Mr K wouldve expected to claim under the policy for this 
condition. Or that he wouldve been put off having accident and sickness cover because  of it. 
So this information  doesnt change my decision. 
Mr K has provided details of life cover he also took out to protect this mortgage.  But PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different  circumstances. So this doesnt  
affect my decision. 
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision, I still think its fair to uphold  this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
what the business needs  to do
Leeds Building Society has to pay back to Mr K any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Leeds  Building Society  should  also pay back to 
Mr K any extra interest he paid because of that.
So Leeds  Building Society should pay back to Mr K the extra he paid each month  because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Leeds Building 
Society should also pay Mr K 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr K commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
So I direct Leeds  Building Society to pay Mr K as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467269