K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy that a part he considers  is faulty  on his range  cooker  is not being covered 
under the extended warranty he has with London  General  Insurance  Company Limited. Hes 
also unhappy with the service he received and believes the engineers who attended his 
home damaged his floor.
background
In 2014 Mr P bought a range cooker and cooker hood. Alongside that purchase  he took out 
an extended warranty. The warranty covered the cooker in the event  of breakdown  or 
accidental damage  resulting  in breakdown. The terms and conditions  detail  that it didnt 
cover cosmetic issues such  as scratches, dents, corrosion  or colour  where the function of 
the product is unaffected.
In October  2018 Mr P made  a claim under the warranty as there were problems with door 
seals and handles. The claim  was accepted  and an engineer attended. At that time Mr P 
made the engineer aware of other  issues with the cooker, including crazing  to the enamel on 
the front facia panel. Parts were ordered by the engineer to repair all the problems.  
Repairs were completed for most of the issues  at the beginning of December 2018. In doing 
so, the engineer left all the old parts and packaging  for the new parts for Mr P to dispose of. 
This was the correct  process, but Mr P hadnt been  told about it. He wasnt happy at the 
time. He also noticed two marks  on his floor in front of the cooker, which  he believed the 
engineers had caused when they moved the cooker  to do the repairs.  A new facia  panel 
wasnt fitted and Mr P was later told it wasnt covered under the warranty  as it was 
considered cosmetic damage, which the warranty excluded  from cover.
Mr P made a complaint about the service hes received, the fact that the facia  panel wasnt  
being replaced and the damage to the floor. 
London General  partially upheld Mr Ps complaint. It said the information and service  it had 
provided in relation to the complaint process  was not what  it should have been.  In addition, it 
apologised for Mr P not having been advised  that he would have to dispose of the packaging 
and old parts following a repair. 
However, the complaint about the facia panel  was declined because  the damage was 
cosmetic and not covered by the warranty. It explained that had Mr P mentioned  this 
problem when he initially called  to make a claim, the agent would have told him straight 
away that the repair wasnt covered by the warranty. It was only because the issue was first 
raised with the engineer, who wasnt aware of the cover provided, that the situation  arose.  
In relation to the damage to the floor, London General said that a decision on this matter 
couldnt be made until a repair quote had been  provided. 
On 19 March 2019, after Mr P had supplied a repair quote for the floor, London General 
declined to make any settlement. It said that in its opinion the marks on the floor are not 
consistent with the appliance being  moved. This is because the marks are pointing 
diagonally left and are situation  several  inches away from where  the appliance is stationed. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with London Generals  response and referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint  and was satisfied that London 
Ref: DRN62433902General was not wrong to decline the claim for the facia panel  because it was cosmetic  and 
not covered under the warranty. However, she thought there was poor claim handling and 
recommended London  General pay Mr P £100 for having  raised Mr Ps expectations and the 
upset and inconvenience caused.  In addition, she was satisfied the damage to the floor had 
likely been  caused  during  the repairs, so London General should  pay for the repairs.
Mr P accepted the investigators view. London  General didnt. It pointed out that had Mr P 
reported the damage to the facia panel when he called to make a claim,  he would have been 
told the damage wasnt covered. It was because he raised it with the engineer, who didnt 
have the authorisation to agree repairs that he wasnt told this at the start. It was only when 
the authorisation for the parts was requested from London General that it became aware of 
the damage and could  decline it. In relation to the panel being fitted and then having  to be 
removed, this was because Mr P had said he would  pay for the panel and asked that it be 
fitted. It was removed when Mr P changed  his mind.  
London General  said it didnt agree that the flooring had been damaged during the repair.  It 
said the engineer  who did the repair said hed used a rug to protect  the flooring while it was 
done. In addition, given the size of the cooker, and the angled  marks, it didnt think  the 
cooker could have been moved at an angle  position in the short distance moved from the 
housing. 
Our investigator responded to London  General and expanded on her reasoning for awarding  
compensation for the service  Mr P had received. She also reiterated that she believed the 
damage to the floor was likely caused  by the engineers.
London General  said it was not disputing the compensation; it had just wanted to make  it 
clear how it had come to its decision.  However,  it said it still disputed the flooring damage. 
As it is entitled to, London General asked that the complaint be considered  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and London General accepted our investigators conclusions regarding  the facia  panel 
and the service issues. I see no need to repeat those discussions or comment further other  
than to say that I agree  with the investigators conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.  
I am also satisfied that £100 is the appropriate amount of compensation for the service  
issues, given the circumstances of the complaint. 
I will now turn to the matter of the damage  to Mr Ps kitchen floor.  The marks on the floor are 
slight, but they are there and if London  Generals  agents caused that damage during the 
repair, it is liable to fix them. 
When London General acknowledged  Mr Ps complaint it commented that its engineers  had 
accepted they had caused the damage  when moving the cooker. It appears  the engineers 
then stepped back from that acceptance.  This was because the damage was not exactly  in 
line with the front feet and was at an angle,  which the feet couldnt  have  been  at given how 
tightly fitted the cooker is in the kitchen.  I can see its point if the damage  was alleged to 
have been caused by the front feet. However,  it is my understanding  that range cookers  of 
the type Mr P owns, because of their great weight, have rollers  at the back  to move the 
Ref: DRN62433903cooker the front feet are lifted off the ground, the unit is tilted, at which point the rollers 
engage to allow the cooker to be rolled.  
It would also appear that from the repairs that were  undertaken  replacement of the back  
panel  the cooker would have had to be completely removed from the surrounding kitchen 
units so that the engineer could get to the back of it. As the entire cooker would have been 
pulled out beyond  the kitchen units to allow the engineer access,  then it could easily have  
been moved at a slight angle to have  caused the damage in the position and direction it was 
caused. Whilst the engineer may well have moved  the cooker onto a rug for the duration  of 
the repairs, I am not persuaded that wouldnt have stopped  damage  happening while the 
cooker was being  moved.
Having examined  the photographs of the damage  to Mr Ps floor provided by London  
General, I am satisfied  it was most likely  caused when the cooker  was moved from its 
position in the run of kitchen units.  As such,  I consider London  General  should pay for the 
repairs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
London General  Insurance  Company Limited should  pay Mr P:
the cost of repairing his kitchen floor; and  
£100 for the poor service  he received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6243390