K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining that Europ Assistance S.A. (Europ) has declined  a claim he made  on his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
In April 2018 Mr H took out an annual travel  insurance policy with Europ. He took the policy 
out online through a broker. 
In August  2018  Mr H travelled to Beirut with his family. He says he arrived at the airport for 
his return journey around four hours before the flight was due to leave. But he said that there  
were security issues at the airport, so said that he, his family and many other passengers  
didnt make the flight. 
Mr H said that he had to pay for two nights in a hotel  before he could get another  flight  and 
he had to return via two stops. He contacted  Europ to claim on the policy,  but Europs agent  
advised him that he wasnt covered  for the return journey. Mr H didnt think  this could be 
right, so he raised  a formal complaint. He also complained  that he was never given any 
policy documents.
Europ reviewed Mr Hs complaint, but reiterated  that he wasnt  covered for his loss. Mr H 
remained unhappy and asked this service to step in.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and she his losses werent covered under the 
insurance policy. Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He also said that hed paid extra  to 
receive policy documents in the post.  But he said he didnt receive  them.
As Mr H didnt  agree, the complaints been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why. 
Its a standard  principle  of insurance  that policyholders are only covered  by losses  set out in 
the terms of the insurance policy. Ive looked at the terms  of the policy and in particular I 
note the following sections:
Missed departure on your outward  journey
This section  does not apply to trips within your home country.
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for necessary and reasonable 
travel and accommodation expenses required to reach your booked destination, if you miss 
your booked departure  due to:
Ref: DRN643666121. the vehicle you are travelling in to reach your international departure  point breaking down 
or being involved in an accident;  or
2. the public transport you are using to reach your international departure point being  
delayed, resulting in you arriving too late to commence your booked trip.
So the terms of the policy clearly sets out that Mr H is only covered for missed  flights  on his 
outward journey. I appreciate why Mr H is unhappy  about that, but this isnt unusual, as most 
travel insurance policies have a similar term. But even if the policy  did cover return  flights,  it 
only provides cover  if he doesnt  get to the airport in time due to transport issues.  And Mr H 
didnt miss his flight for this reason. 
Given this, Europ was entitled to decline Mr Hs claim for the losses  he incurred. So while  I 
can appreciate Mr Hs frustrations in this respect and that it appears he has lost out due to 
no fault of his own, I cant say that Europ is required to cover  this loss.
Mr H says that he didnt  receive any of the policy documents.  And he says he paid extra to 
receive postal copies. But Europ didnt sell him the insurance policy as it was sold through a 
broker. So hell have to raise not receiving the policy documents with the broker. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6436661