K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Moorcroft Debt Recovery  Limited has been chasing her for a debt she 
says she doesnt  owe. She feels harassed by the amount of contact and wants it to stop and 
be awarded compensation.
background
Ms S tells us in April 2018 she started  to receive phone calls and voice  messages from 
Moorcroft. And that this was followed  by various letters  in relation to a property  shed 
formerly owned. She said Moorcroft was chasing her for an unpaid mortgage  balance - a 
debt which  she thinks is statute-barred. She says she wrote to Moorcroft and it agreed - in 
July 2018 - to stop contact whilst enquiries were  made. Ms S says she then started  to 
receive phone calls from a company Ill refer to as W. She describes these calls as being  
persistent during  the period from July to October 2018. She believes Moorcroft  and W are 
connected. Ms S says shes received over 100 missed calls and texts  and more than 40 
voice mail messages - and she feels shes been harassed.
Moorcroft told us it had been instructed, in March 2018, by a business  Ill call H, to seek to 
collect a debt from Ms S. It said it had not made any phone calls to Ms S as it had no details 
of her phone. It said it had taken no recovery action involving Ms S between 6 July 2018 and 
19 January 2019.  And it had no connection  with W - which it said was a separate  debt 
recovery agency and not part of the Moorcroft Group.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said Moorcroft had 
not made any phone  calls regarding the alleged debt to Ms S. And it hadnt passed  it on to 
any other business. She didnt think Moorcroft had acted inappropriately in writing  about the 
debt to Ms S after it had been instructed by H to attempt  recovery. And she said that it 
(Moorcroft) had agreed to put on hold any further contact until Ms Ss complaint  against H 
had been answered. She confirmed that Moorcroft  and W were not connected.
Ms S didnt agree with this outcome  and told the investigator she still thought  Moorcroft and 
W were the same company. As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Ms S has been caused  such a degree of stress and concern about  a matter 
she clearly believes had been concluded some  years  ago. 
I need to clarify that Im not making any findings  about the debt itself - or whether or not it is 
statute-barred. Im only looking at Moorcrofts actions and whether its acted fairly in its role 
as a debt collecting  agency.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is unclear or incomplete - as some  of it is here - I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide  what  is the 
most likely explanation to account for whats happened.
Ref: DRN63113702Ill say straight away that I accept  that Ms S has been the unwilling recipient  of a vast 
amount of phone calls and voice messages. Shes made a note of many  of the callers 
phone numbers and these have been called by our investigator.  This showed  that the 
numbers related to various different companies  - including  debt collecting  agencies other 
than Moorcroft and claims management companies.  So it seems likely its these businesses  
which have been  calling  Ms S. I cant say what the purpose or basis of these calls are. Or if 
Ms S has - or has previously had - financial agreements with any of these callers.
I do not doubt this level of contact is troubling to Ms S and the source of stress. But Im only 
able to consider  the actions of Moorcroft. Its hard to prove that something  has not happened 
- as there are no records which show this. But Moorcroft has provided records  which dont  
contain any evidence  that such contact has occurred. And that is largely corroborated  by our 
investigators efforts. So I cant hold Moorcroft  responsible for calls it did not make  or 
authorise.
Although Ms S appears to think that Moorcroft and W are the same or a connected company 
- the facts  show otherwise. Ive checked on the Companies House website  - which is 
accessible to the public  and provides an instant and free check  of information about 
registered companies. This shows the two companies are separate legal entities and theres 
no apparent connection between them - other  than they both offer debt collecting services.
In summary,  I find that Moorcroft  was not responsible for the calls, texts  and voice  mails 
about which Ms S complains. And I think that the contact it did have - through letters sent by 
post - was reasonable in terms  of content and quantity. 
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Ms S, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6311370