K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way his home insurance claim for flood damage to his property 
was handled by Aviva Insurance  Limited, particularly in relation to the remedial repairs 
needed to the kitchen  and to the flooring.
background
In December 2015 Mr C had a flood in his home  and he made a claim to Aviva.  After the 
property was dried, repairs were carried out to the downstairs. These included replacing  the 
flooring and carrying out repairs to the kitchen. 
Mr C found that the works carried out werent  satisfactory  the floor started  to "cup" possibly 
due to damp conditions.  And the standard  of workmanship to the kitchen was generally poor. 
On 19 August 2016 Aviva agreed to make a payment of compensation of £750. This was 
due to the quality of work issues, the delays, the disruption and also having to appoint 
another contractor  to finish the necessary reinstatement works. In addition  a payment of £50 
was made  by the loss adjuster, for initial delays.
On 16 August 2017 Aviva sent a further  final response letter. This detailed the repair issues 
it would  deal with: 1) the doors/frames, 2) the flooring and 3) some  flaking  paint. I believe the 
flaking paint issue has been resolved.
The matter  dragged on after that, particularly  because  Aviva had to establish the reasons for 
the continuing problems with the flooring. It offered to make a cash payment to resolve  the 
problems with the kitchen and to carry out work to redo the flooring. 
Mr C was unhappy with that. He felt that the work  to the kitchen was so poor as to require a 
complete new kitchen. He had gone ahead and had a new kitchen installed in early  2017. He 
further said the appliances had been stripped out at the beginning and had been standing in 
the garage for two years. He also had these  replaced. He sought  payment for replacement 
of those appliances, based  on the view of an electrician that they were no longer usable.
In a further final response letter of 24 April 2018, Aviva offered a cash settlement that dealt 
with the remaining works  that needed to be done. It wouldnt pay the cost of a new kitchen 
as it said the old kitchen was mismatched any way and its contractor had assessed the cost 
of remedying the poor workmanship. It was willing  to pay that cost.  Aviva wasnt  prepared to 
pay the cost of the new appliances. It pointed out that this cost hadnt been put to it before 
the new appliances were bought by Mr C. The old appliances have been disposed of.
As the parties couldnt  agree on the work  needed for replacement  of the flooring, Aviva 
offered Mr C a cash settlement for that. He said this was nowhere near enough. He was 
particularly concerned that when it offered to replace the flooring Aviva  wouldnt provide a 
guarantee. This was because it was concerned that there were  other  issues, not related to 
the repairs or the original claim,  that were causing  the floor to cup. It said that a new timber 
floor wasnt  appropriate  even though there  had been one there before.
Aviva was prepared  to offer Mr C a further £700 compensation for the issues that had 
affected Mr C since  the letter of August 2016.  And it went  through  the other  matters  it was 
prepared to pay for. Mr C wasnt satisfied with the cash offer. He had an estimate from a firm 
of builders for £106,000 against the £38,416.70 that Aviva is prepared  to offer as a cash  
settlement.
Ref: DRN63468602On referral to this service,  our adjudicator thought  that Avivas offer was reasonable. Mr C 
had some further issues with Aviva  and advised  that the offer wasnt anything like enough.
I issued a provisional decision. In that I explained  in detail that I thought  Avivas  offer of 
settlement was reasonable, and why, but that if Mr C had any further evidence I would 
consider it.
Mr C didnt agree. He has since had the property inspected by a surveyor  and has shown  us 
the report. I will deal with his comments in my findings below.
 Aviva had no further comments to make.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
our rules
In my provisional decision I said:
This service is governed by the dispute  resolution  rules contained in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. In particular we can only look at complaints where  they are referred to 
us within  six months of a final response letter issued by the business. That letter must set 
out the time limit and advise  the consumer of their rights to refer the complaint to this 
service.
Aviva previously issued a final response to Mr Cs complaints up until August 2016.  It paid 
compensation of £750 for quality of work issues, the delays, the disruption and also having 
to appoint another contractor to finish the necessary  re instatement  works. At the same  time 
its loss adjusters paid £50 for the delay in arranging an appointment. The letter  of 19 August 
2016 gave Mr C six months to refer the issues in that letter  to this service. He didnt  do so, 
as a result  I have to regard the issues compensated for in that letter  to be closed, and I cant 
look at them again.  I can look at any issues that arose since that date.
I think the best way of approaching this is to look at the issues  set out in the April 2018 letter, 
and matters raised since then in response, and set out what  I think  in my view is fair and 
reasonable.
Neither party has commented on this finding so it is now my final finding.
flooring
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C is unhappy with the settlement offered to him for the flooring. He believes that the 
whole of the downstairs flooring (including  the concrete sub floor) and the damp  proof 
membrane (DPM) needed replacing.  Hes pointed out that the contractors were  found to 
Ref: DRN63468603have drilled through the DPM. He is also unhappy  that Aviva  wont  offer a guarantee for the 
flooring.
Aviva says the whole  floor doesnt need replacing.  And, having read its specialist reports on 
the flooring problem, I think thats reasonable. Theres  no indication of any problems with 
damp throughout the rest of the property. As regards  the DPM, I accept that this can be 
repaired. As I understand it, it is a liquid DPM constructed from asphalt, rather  than being 
something like a plastic membrane, so it can be repaired.
The problem with the floor was identified  as relating to the drilling through of the DPM and 
finishing, both of which are poor workmanship and should be resolved. But Mr C is also 
understandably unhappy that Aviva wont offer a guarantee on the flooring. This is because  
Aviva believes  there  are other issues with the water table which  could be affecting the home. 
Its expert referred to some local construction work on the railway  which  may have  affected  it. 
And he didnt recommend  that a timber  floor be reinstalled. Aviva has allowed in its proposed 
payment for a Karndean floor, which is more expensive than an oak floor.
Mr C has pointed out that hes had no previous problems with the flooring, which has been 
replaced satisfactorily before. He also says that his neighbour, who was also flooded,  has 
had no such problems.
So I understand why Mr C is unhappy.  But problems  with damp are notoriously difficult to 
resolve. Hopefully the relaying of the floor to specifications  and the repair of the DPM will 
resolve the problem.  And if Aviva were  to carry out the floor relaying, then any problems 
relating to defective workmanship would  still have to be resolved  by it. Aviva has to ensure 
that there  is an effective  repair but if any unanticipated problems arise which arent  related to 
that or any insurable  claim  then Aviva may not be responsible, and I think thats reasonable.
I have carefully considered the surveyors report now obtained by Mr C. The surveyor 
doesnt disagree that the proposed works  Aviva  agreed to carry out need  to be done. And 
while he criticised the process that led to the floor having to be redone,  Im satisfied that that 
issue was dealt with in Avivas final response  letter of August 2016. And that sufficient 
compensation has been paid for the subsequent issues (as I explain below).
As for the proposed replacement floor the surveyor said I understand why the insurers  may 
not wish to see a timber floor installed as they will carry liability  for the construction  and 
would wish to limit their potential liability. I believe that there are modern alternatives 
materials available that should be capable of providing an equally high quality flooring 
solution. That says to me that the expert opinion is that in Mr Cs circumstances a 
Karndean type floor would be preferable and more durable than a solid oak floor. And 
Aviva, as I mentioned provisionally, has allowed for costs in this respect  in its settlement.
Concerning the floor in the kitchen  and study  my summing up of what the surveyor said is 
that in principle the damp proofing  remedial measures that are to be applied  to the 
lounge/dinner & hall floor should be applied to the kitchen and cloakroom floor.  However, he 
notes that theres  no evidence that the asphalt floor to this area was in any way damaged in 
the initial stages  of remedial works. Also that he doesnt see a justifiable need to disturb 
these floors to carry out a process that is in [his] view unnecessary.
Mr C has produced a letter from the original contractor suggesting that the whole floor needs 
replacing. Where there is a dispute over what work  is necessary the evidence of a surveyor  
Ref: DRN63468604is in my view more  persuasive than that of a contractor. And here both Mr Cs and Avivas 
surveyor have given  an expert opinion which I think fair to accept,
So I dont  think any further work  is needed over and above the work  agreed by Aviva.
kitchen units,  fitting and electrical work
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C says he had to replace the whole kitchen.  In particular this was because  Avivas 
contractors workmanship was very poor. The base  units had been replaced  by Aviva but its 
contractors had tried to fit the old doors  back. He has produced a report  from a kitchen 
supplier who said the doors werent of a standard  size so didnt fit on the new carcasses  
properly.
Avivas contractor (who was brought in afterwards,  he didnt fit the kitchen)  said that there  
were issues  of poor workmanship but that the remedial repairs  could be carried  out for 
£3,811.55. It pointed out that the kitchen was mismatched before, so if its new end panels 
didnt match the doors exactly it wasnt obliged to pay for an exact match.
I think, reading Mr Cs reports from the kitchen  company, that the problem here is one of 
match rather  than the whole kitchen needing  replacing. I bear in mind also that a kitchen  
company wouldnt  carry out repairs to an existing  kitchen. Its function is to install  new 
kitchens. Aviva has already established  that the doors werent  damaged. Im inclined to 
accept its contractors view that the kitchen could  have been repaired rather  than needing 
replacing. And that the unit carcasses  themselves didnt  need to be matched  just the end 
panels and the plinths.  Mr C has chosen to replace the whole kitchen, but Aviva isnt liable to 
replace the wall units. Where there  are undamaged parts of a set, as here the kitchen units  
and the replacement parts dont match we may consider that the insurer should contribute in 
respect of the undamaged parts. But I note that parts of the units were already mismatched 
before the claim so I dont think that in this case it would be appropriate to ask Aviva  to pay 
such a contribution.
Aviva has offered £3,811.55. Mr C has chosen  to replace the entire  kitchen rather  than carry 
out the adjustment work  for which this payment  was intended, I think  overall that it 
represents a reasonable  contribution to the new kitchen, so it should still be paid.
 Mr C says that he had to replace the electrical wiring in the kitchen, including  removing 
some obsolete wiring. Whist I accept this would  be part of installing a new kitchen,  I dont 
think that Aviva has any liability for electrical work in the kitchen. Whilst Mr C asserts that it 
was necessary, Ive not seen any expert evidence to show that the electrics  were affected by 
the flooding or defective work.
Mr Cs surveyor  has a view on this which is that he would expect the insurer to apply a 
general rule of reasonableness and replace the units  where necessary. He suggests  that it 
is possible to source  matches these  days using the internet. Although  he agrees that 
replacing the end panels  would be possible to compensate and disguise the situation. But 
as Ive said this wasnt  a case where  Aviva had to provide  an exact match  for what  was in 
place before the flood. Mr Cs surveyor hasnt put forward any expert evidence  that the 
kitchen needed  replacing. Indeed he hadnt  seen  the kitchen before it was replaced. Im 
satisfied that Avivas offer and proposed solution  was reasonable.
Ref: DRN63468605kitchen appliances
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C has shown  us a letter from an electrician which said that the appliances had stood too 
long in flooded  damp conditions. The letter is dated some two months after the kitchen was 
fitted. The appliances have been disposed of, so Aviva hasnt had the opportunity to inspect 
them. And I dont know  whether  the electrician inspected the items  or was just asked  for his 
opinion about  the circumstances of storage. Theres  no evidence that the appliances  were  
PAT tested, which would  have shown whether they were safe to use.
I understand they were kept in the garage so shouldnt have been in flooded  damp 
conditions. And Mr C could have protected any exposed wiring. Im not persuaded by the 
expert evidence that the appliances  couldnt  reasonably have been reused. In the absence 
of any clear, persuasive evidence that the appliances were faulty, I dont propose to make 
Aviva pay for them.
Mr C hasnt made any further comment on this so my provisional finding  is now final.
garage door 
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C has produced two invoices from a door installer. The power unit has been replaced 
and paid for by Aviva.  The first of the new invoices doesnt detail what the work was for, so 
Aviva has asked for further  details. The second,  Aviva said,  relates to a maintenance issue 
concerning the motor  making a screeching noise and wouldnt be covered. I think  Avivas 
response on both these invoices is reasonable. If the motor was faulty it should have been 
covered under any guarantee,  but it appears  it just needed lubrication. In any event it doesnt 
appear that Mr C advised Aviva of this so it didnt  have the opportunity  to look at it. If Mr C 
can produce details  of the work  carried out for the first invoice I think it reasonable that Aviva 
should consider  it.
Mr C has now produced  a further  invoice detailing  the original work carried  out by the door 
installer. As Aviva agreed to consider the matter further on production of details of the work 
done. Mr C should  send the revised  invoice to Aviva  so it can consider it. I wont make any 
further finding.
construction of back garden retaining wall 
In my provisional decision I said:
Avivas contractor advised  that part of the retaining wall be replaced. Mr C has produced an 
estimate for £2,400 which allows for removal  of that wall and rebuilding. Aviva has asked for 
an invoice so that it can consider what it will pay for here. I think thats reasonable. If Mr C 
wants to produce that invoice in response  to this provisional decision,  Ill consider it.
Mr C hasnt made any further comment on this, nor produced any further invoice. So I cant  
make any further finding, save  to say that Avivas  response to this issue  is reasonable.
repairing, supplying gully covers and fence
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN63468606Mr C has claimed £132 for this. Aviva is prepared  to pay £30 for the grid covers  and a third 
of the labour charge  (£25). It has asked  what the balance of the invoice for fence panels and 
silicone is for. Again  I think  thats  reasonable. And again if Mr C wants  to provide that 
explanation in response to this provisional decision, Ill consider it.
Mr C says that there were  two damaged (wooden)  garden fences and six gully covers  
replaced. He hasnt explained  why the work was necessary so I cant make any further  
finding. If he supplies this information to Aviva  it can reconsider  its position, as it had agreed 
to do.
locks for upstairs room  doors 
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C has claimed £700 for this, as he wanted  to protect his property whilst the contractors 
were on site. Aviva has declined to pay for this, as it isnt part of the claim and is something 
Mr C opted to have  done. I think thats  reasonable, it wouldnt normally be part of an 
insurance claim to put locks on doors  which werent there before.
Mr C has further explained that he requested the loss adjuster provide locks for the upstairs 
rooms and says this was agreed  verbally,  which the loss adjuster went back on. He says the 
locks were necessary  to safeguard clients  confidential data. Ive seen no evidence that the 
locks were agreed. Mr C wouldnt have  needed  to put locks on every  door to protect such  
data. Im not clear why it would have been necessary to keep such  data in the home, and I 
dont think that it justified the expense.
plaster on kitchen wall 
In my provisional decision I said:
Aviva has offered £1,943.30 for the cost of retiling  the kitchen walls and flooring. Mr C has 
opted to have a splashback  instead  of tiling and has claimed for removal of plastering priced 
at £460. Aviva has said this is included in its proposed payment for the retiling  and again  I 
think thats reasonable.
Mr Cs surveyor  said the quality of the tiling in the kitchen was poor but commented that I 
had indicated a proposed  resolution and he would have to spend considerably more time on 
this matter further to provide a fuller  opinion. Mr C says he had a splashback there before. 
Neither of those comments really addresses the issue. Im not persuaded to change  my view 
and think that Avivas offer for the proposed retiling is reasonable.
window and door lock of lounge
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C says the lock was damaged by Avivas  contractor and has claimed £138. Aviva has 
pointed out that the invoice includes other  issues. It says this wasnt  advised to it at the time 
so it has had no opportunity to remedy  it. Im inclined to accept that unless  Mr C is able to 
show me that he did report it at the time.
Ref: DRN63468607Mr C continues to assert that the lock was damaged  by Avivas contractor, but has provided 
no evidence to show it was reported  at the time. So I dont propose to make any further  
finding.
repair of cracked garage floor, plastering  of outside wall, repointing outside after removing 
old floor standing boiler and exhaust
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C has produced an estimate for cleaning and repair of the garage floor. Aviva has 
pointed out that he hasnt  produced an invoice for this, nor has he explained why the work 
set out in the estimate differs from that he is claiming for. I think  in principle Aviva  should pay 
the cost of the floor being damaged by the removal of the old boiler,  since  this was part of 
the claim.  But Mr C needs to show he has paid for this and to produce an invoice (not an 
estimate) giving details  of the work done. If he can produce that in response to this 
provisional decision, Ill consider it.
Mr C hasnt produced any further  invoice. He asserts that he was two years  without central 
heating and that when he told the loss adjuster he was advised to get an emergency 
plumber. I understand  that Aviva paid for the new boiler. Mr C says the issues  with the boiler 
started in December 2015, but it appears that Aviva  addressed this point and had had the 
boiler certified as working. It also pointed out that it paid for heating costs  during this period. 
If anything it appears to me to have been  an intermittent problem. I have taken it into 
account but Im not inclined to increase the compensation already offered.
attic
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C alleges that the contractors caused damage  in his attic when connecting up the 
heating system. He says they broke  the side wall and didnt replace boarding. Avivas 
contractors have denied  causing any damage, but nevertheless Aviva is prepared  to pay 
£250. Mr C has shown  us photos of the attic but as the contractors deny having caused  any 
damage, I cant make a finding that its most  likely they did. I think Avivas offer is reasonable 
and I cant say that it should pay any more.
Mr C continues to assert that the contractors caused  the damage  in the attic. He has 
evidence that the contractors went into the attic. I dont doubt that the contractors did go into 
the attic, but they continue to deny  responsibility  for the damage.  Without any other evidence 
that they did cause the damage alleged, I think  that Avivas offer in this respect is 
reasonable.
alarm repair
In my provisional decision I said that Aviva advised  it had already paid for this. This included 
a payment for upgrading the system to comply  with current regulations.
Mr C asserts that Aviva hasnt paid for this and that it remains  outstanding. According to 
Avivas letter  to Mr C of 24 April 2018, this was previously paid in a payment on 3 August 
2016. It was released  in a payment that also included reimbursement of gas and electricity 
bills/charges. The total issued on that date was £1,480.01. If Mr C received that payment  
then I would have  to say that he has been  paid for the repair to the alarm system. The date 
Ref: DRN63468608and amount are very specific so if he didnt receive  that particular payment he should advise 
Aviva who could check its records  to ensure the payment went out.
removal of rubbish from garage 
In my provisional decision I said Mr C has claimed £150 for this, which  Aviva has accepted it 
should pay. Neither party  has commented on this so that  is my final finding,
door frames
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C contends that the doors all need  replacing along with the frames.  Aviva points out that 
it has already replaced the doors  and points out they arent  damaged. But it accepts that 
substantial work is needed  to the frames, and replacement of the casings as the doors didnt 
hang correctly.  It has included a figure for this in its settlement. I dont  think  it reasonable for 
Aviva to be expected  to pay for completely new doors and frames.
Mr Cs surveyor  agrees  that the frames need  replacing. Of the doors he says Serious 
consideration needs to be given to whether these doors can be adequately reused. Some  
careful checking of doors in openings should  take place, but some or complete replacement  
may be required.
I dont take that as a firm view that doors  must be replaced, rather that Aviva  should 
seriously consider  whether they can be reused. As it has already replaced  the doors once, 
I cant reasonably say that it should  replace them again. And the estimate from Mr Cs 
carpenter allows for reusing rather than replacing  the doors. Im not persuaded to change my 
finding in this respect.
cash settlement
In my provisional decision I said:
On the whole I think Mr Cs builders estimate  is excessive. It is very brief and does set out 
a schedule of works.  Also it has a figure for Prelims of £10,350  which isnt broken down. 
And I dont  think it is necessary to completely remove the floors and install a new concrete  
floor for over £23,000. The expert  evidence Ive seen  doesnt support that.
Overall I think  the cash settlement of £38,416.70 offered by Aviva  in respect of the 
outstanding items is reasonable.  Additionally if Mr C provides proof  of items listed above  
where Aviva has said its prepared to consider further. If he provides them in response to this 
provisional decision, I will consider whether to make  further findings.
I understand that Mr C still believes the settlement isnt adequate. But having  reviewed his 
surveyors report Im not persuaded to alter my findings. Mr C hasnt produced  any further 
evidence of the points Aviva  agreed to consider further, apart from the issue of the garage 
doors. As Aviva had already agreed  to consider that matter if it received further details, then 
I dont propose to make any further direction in that respect.
compensation
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN63468609I accept that Mr C has been caused a serious degree of trouble and upset because of the 
repairs being done badly to the kitchen and the floors needing redoing. To a large extent he 
has already been  compensated for that. The payment  of £800 was to reflect  the quality of 
work, delays  and disruption. As I pointed out above I cant  consider that issue any further 
and cant make any additional award in respect of those matters. 
I accept that Mr C has continued to suffer disruption.  And there were further delays of 
several months in arranging visits and surveys of the floor.  But I do take into account  that 
Mr C wouldnt  accept Avivas proposals to repair the floor or the kitchen and decided to get a 
new kitchen himself. For the issues that have arisen  since the letter  of August  2016, Aviva 
has offered to pay a further £700. I think that is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Mr C doesnt agree. But having  reviewed the matter again,  taking into 
account  Mr Cs response,  Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive set out, that the compensation 
offered is reasonable. 
overall
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think Avivas offers in respect of both the cash 
settlement for repairs and compensation  are fair and reasonable. My provisional findings, as 
Ive set out above are now final and form part of this final decision. If Mr C wants  to accept  
the payments  offered he should  get in touch  with Aviva directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman.
 
Ref: DRN6346860