K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy that First Central  Insurance Management Limited  refused to remove a 
default which he believes was placed on his credit  file incorrectly. He says he was told it 
would be removed if the debt was paid.    
background
Mr N held a comprehensive motor vehicle insurance policy with First Central.  
In October  2017 First Central  sent Mr N correspondence when his direct debit for payment of 
premiums was stopped.  The correspondence asked Mr N to contact First Central  by 9 
November 2017  to make the necessary payment  or his policy would be cancelled,  but he 
didnt make the payment and the policy was cancelled. First Central  made further attempts 
to get Mr N to pay, but they werent successful.
In February 2018  a default notice was sent. Because that notice wasnt complied  with, the 
default was issued in April 2018  and recorded  on his credit  file. In July 2018 the debt was 
settled, and First Central  reported  to the credit agency that the account had been satisfied. 
Record of the satisfied  default remains on Mr Ns credit record,  but Mr N wants  it removed.   
The investigator didnt  believe  First Central had done anything  wrong.  He said it didnt need 
to take any further  action.  
Mr N didnt accept that, and so the matter has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont believe this complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why. 
Mr Ns policy  sets out steps First Central  may take to provide information to credit  reference 
agencies if payments were being made  by direct debit and there was an outstanding debt 
(as was the case here). The policy also points out that records  of that will stay on file for six 
years, whether  the debt is paid off or not.
First Central took reasonable steps to alert Mr N to his outstanding payment, and gave him 
ample opportunity  to fix that.  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that, when the payment 
wasnt made, First Central did anything wrong in having the default recorded on Mr Ns credit  
file, as it was entitled  to do. Because no mistake was made in reporting the default, we cant  
force First Central to have  it removed. 
I appreciate that Mr N feels it should  now be removed  because hes since paid the 
outstanding amount. He also says that he was told reference to the default would be 
removed. It appears that the First Central representative said it would take 48 hours for the 
system to update  regarding the payment, and it may be that Mr N misunderstood that, 
believing that meant  all reference  to the default  itself would be removed. But, even when 
payment is made, the system updates  to record the default as having been satisfied; it does 
not remove the default entirely from the records (until  six years later). So even if Mr N had 
been misled on this point, I cant see that hes been prejudiced. 
Ref: DRN63001532Mr N also complained that First Central charged him a cancellation  fee. But the policy clearly 
provides that such a fee will apply, and Mr N was also told about the fee in a phone call with 
First Central. Again,  I cant see that First Central  did anything wrong in applying  the 
cancellation fee.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6300153