K820x#14complaint
Miss S says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss S bought  the policy  in 2001  at the same time as taking  out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint because:
 I think FICL made Miss S aware that she had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. This is because the credit  agreement  included a section on 
protecting your account,  where  Miss S had to sign to show she wanted PPI. So I think  
Miss S shouldve been aware  of what she was signing up to. I dont think  theres 
enough evidence  for me to say that FICL was at fault for Miss S not realising  what  she 
was signing up for. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Miss S doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
 While  Miss S had six months  sick pay through her work the PPI wouldve paid out for 
longer than this if shed been  off sick. And it wouldve left her sick pay available  for 
other things. And although Miss S had critical illness  insurance,  this is a different sort 
of policy which would  usually only pay out upon  diagnosis  of specific serious  illnesses. 
So it wouldnt always pay out if she was off sick. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ss comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN63372632my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6337263