K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr H says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr H says that he was unaware that he had PPI  and that it mustve  been added without his 
knowledge and consent. Mr H applied for his credit card through the post  he didnt take 
PPI at this time. Capital  One sold him the policy when he called up to activate his new card.  
Theres no call recording available, but this isnt surprising for a call that took place so long 
ago, and businesses  arent required to keep  records indefinitely, so I cant  know  exactly  what 
was said. 
But Capital One has been able to provide  a copy of the script that was in use at the time for 
selling PPI. This shows that the person selling the PPI wouldve been prompted to point out 
that the policy was optional,  and gain proper consent for the PPI to be added to the account  
 and I havent seen anything to suggest  Capital One did anything differently when it sold 
PPI on this occasion. Mr H was also already in possession of his card  so I think  he 
wouldve known that he didnt have to take PPI in order  to get the card approved. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think Capital One most likely made it clear that Mr H 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN60010872To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
I can also see that Mr H has previously been  in an IVA  he may need to speak to his 
practitioner about the money Capital One has paid him.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6001087