K822xcomplaint
Miss C took out three packaged bank  accounts (PBAs) with Barclays Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) from January  2003 for which she was charged monthly fees. She says they were 
mis-sold.
background
Miss C took out the following accounts  with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current August 1993 No
Current with overdraft March 2000 No
Additions January 2003 Yes
Additions Plus January 2007 Yes
Premiere Life July 2008 Yes
Miss C says that she didnt use the benefits of the PBAs  and the fees werent explained  to 
her. The account  changes  happened through telephone conversations with Barclays staff,  
and the initial fees were  £7.50 per month for the Additions account, £14.50 per month for the 
Additions Plus account and £25 per month for the Premier Life account. 
Barclays has agreed to uphold Miss Cs complaint about the Premier Life account and 
refund the difference in cost between the Additions  Plus and the Premiere  Life accounts  for 
the period involved.
Our adjudicator thought this was a reasonable outcome but Miss C disagrees so the case 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Cs complaint.
Ill consider the sales of the three accounts  separately:
the Additions account sale in January 2003
I need firstly  to consider whether Miss C knew she had a choice between taking out a fee 
free account  or the Additions account she bought.
In my view Miss C did know she had a choice. I say this because Miss C had previously had 
a fee free account with an overdraft  facility with Barclays for several years.  So I think its 
more likely than not that she would have  known that fee free accounts with overdraft facilities 
were widely available  from Barclays and other  banks and building societies. 
Barclays says this was an advised  sale by which it means that it recommended  the Additions 
account to Miss C personally  and advised her to take it out. So Barclays  was required to 
ensure that the Additions account was suitable  for Miss C at the time of the sale and provide  
her with enough information for her to make an informed choice.
Ref: DRN64004342I dont know what information Barclays gave to Miss C although clearly Miss C did have 
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell her the account.
The Additions account benefits  included  car breakdown recovery,  extended warranty and an 
interest free overdraft  buffer of £250.  At the time of the sale Miss C says she had a car. And 
Barclays has provided evidence that she was running a regular and substantial overdraft. So I 
cant say that I think the account was unsuitable  for her.  
So in my view even  if she had not received the full information about  the Additions  account 
she would  still have  chosen to take it out. I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in the 
Additions account sale, and I cant uphold that part of her complaint.
the Additions Plus account sale in January 2007
The Additions account benefits  included  car breakdown recovery,  worldwide travel insurance, 
mobile phone insurance,  domestic emergency  cover  and a continuation of the £250 interest 
free overdraft buffer.
At the time of the sale Miss C had a car and a mobile phone and she says she went on holiday 
up to 3 times  a year. And Barclays has provided  evidence that she continued to run a regular 
and substantial overdraft.  So I cant say I think the Additions Plus account  was unsuitable for 
her.  
So in my view even  if she had not received the full information about  the Additions  Plus 
account she would still have chosen to take it out. I dont  think  Barclays  did anything wrong in 
the Additions Plus account sale, and I cant uphold that part of her complaint either.
the Premier Life account sale in July 2008
When the Premier Life account was sold, Miss Cs circumstances had not changed 
significantly and Ive seen  no evidence that she wouldve  been  interested  in the extra benefits 
it provided. So I think its more likely  than not that the Premier Life account wasnt  suitable  for 
her. So I think Barclays  didnt do what it should  have  done in this sale and I uphold her 
complaint in this area.
I see that Barclays has offered to refund  Miss C the difference between the cost of the 
Additions Plus account and Premier  Life account  for the period where  she had a Premier Life 
account, and I think  this is a reasonable way to resolve the complaint.
putting things right
I require Barclays to: 
Pay Miss C the additional amount she paid each month for the Premier Life account 
compared to the Additions Plus account.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN64004343If Miss C has saved  money because of a better rate on her overdraft by having  the 
Premier Life account  rather than the Additions  Plus account and Barclays can show 
exactly how much Miss C saved, it may deduct  these savings from the amount it pays  
her  but only after it has calculated the two points above. Barclays must explain clearly  
and simply to Miss C how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Miss C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Miss Cs compliant about the sales of the 
Additions or Additions  Plus accounts. But I do uphold  Miss Cs complaint  about the 
Premier Life account and require Barclays Bank  UK Plc to put things right as Ive described  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6400434