K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Itc Compliance Limited  (ITC) mis-sold him a single premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 2006 Mr S took entered into a loan agreement with an authorised  
representative of ITC to buy a car. At the same  time he took out a single premium PPI policy  
to protect  his loan repayments. The policy wouldve covered his loan repayments if he was 
unable to work because of accident or sickness for up to 24 months and for up to 12 months 
if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she thought the 
paperwork made it clear the policy was optional and it provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr S disagrees, he says he was told he had to take PPI because  of his age.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S applied for a loan during a meeting at a car sales  room. ITC had to make sure it was 
clear to Mr S he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr S said this wasnt  done. He says he was 
told he had to take the policy because  of his age. He says at the time the policy was sold he 
wasnt yet 18. But Ive seen a copy of the credit  agreement and screen shots  confirming 
when the policy was sold. And I can see that Mr S wouldve  been  18 when he took out the 
policy. But given the amount of time that has passed since  the sale I can understand why he 
might not remember this. 
From what  I understand of the sales process  its likely that there wouldve been  a discussion 
between the sales  adviser and Mr S about  PPI and if PPI was required it wouldve been  
included on the loan agreement.
The credit agreement Mr S signed  has the PPI cost is set out separately  from the loan cost 
and there  are separate  boxes  to sign for each  of the loan and PPI. In the PPI box I can see 
there is a tick under  the words I wish to purchase the following  Insurance(s)Payment 
Protection. Mr S has signed  just below this as well as signing for the loan separately in the 
section above  this. 
I think PPI was included  on the loan agreement  because  Mr S chose to take it after a 
discussion with the sales adviser. If he hadnt agreed to take the policy I think he wouldve 
raised this with the sales adviser when he saw the loan agreement.
Ref: DRN64736272And I think it wouldve been clear to Mr S at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because as well as selecting to take it with a tick, he 
had to sign separately for it. And based on what Mr S has told us I cant  say its likely ITC did 
do things to make Mr S think the PPI wasnt optional.
Mr S was advised to take the policy. What  this means is that ITC not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr S could make  an 
informed choice about buying  PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend  PPI 
that the policy was suitable to his needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if ITC did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of sale Mr S says he had some sick pay but no other  means of making his 
loan repayments  if he couldnt work. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of any sick pay and for potentially longer if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness for up to 24 months and for up to 12 months  if he lost his job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a suitable benefit to Mr S in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time.  And 
theres nothing to suggest at the time of sale he wouldve  needed the flexibility to 
cancel the policy  early.
I also need to consider  whether ITC gave Mr S information in a way which was clear, fair and 
not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted to 
take the PPI out. I can see that all the information  on the cost of PPI is shown on the loan 
agreement. But I dont know if ITC gave all the information as it should of. 
But for the same reasons  that the PPI was suitable  and based on what  Mr S has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been  
given all the proper  information.
This means  I dont  think ITC has to pay back the cost of PPI to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Itc Compliance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473627