K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
2001. Mr C and Ms C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the MPPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 February  2019 explaining why I wasnt  intending  to 
uphold this complaint.  I said that before I made  my final decision Id consider any more  
comments and evidence  that I got by 19 March 2019.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, I havent received any new comments or evidence 
from the parties for me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr C and Ms Cs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  why again below.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr C and Ms C have said that they werent  told about the MPPI and that they were  never  
aware of it. But I just dont  think theres  enough  evidence  to say that this is what 
happened. Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the mortgage application completed at 
the time  and on this I can see there  was a clear section for the MPPI, and that both 
Mr C and Ms C signed to say they wanted to take out MPPI. This is consistent  with what I 
know about  Bank of Scotlands sales practices at the time.  I can also see that 
Mr C and Ms C declined buildings and contents insurance. So overall I think  
Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr C and Ms C didnt  have to take out the MPPI and 
they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why they cant remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI  to Mr C and Ms C so it had to check that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. I appreciate  
what Mr C and Ms C have said about this. But the mortgage was a significant long term 
financial commitment  secured on their home. And if either  of them  lost their job or couldnt 
work, the policy  couldve paid out for up to 24 months,  at what couldve been  a difficult 
time, irrespective of any sick pay or redundancy pay. I understand Mr C and Ms C have 
also said they had other  cover.  But the MPPI  provided different cover to life and critical 
illness cover. And whilst Mr C and Ms C have  sent documentation which appears to show  
that they took out separate cover  (for the same monthly  benefit  as the MPPI they took out 
with Bank of Scotland)  possibly also covering accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
(although the paperwork does not make this completely clear), this separate  cover 
appears to have been taken out in March 2002, after theyd taken out the MPPI with 
Bank of Scotland. So Ive not seen anything that persuades me Mr C and Ms C already 
Ref: DRN66119402had MPPI  cover  at the time Bank  of Scotland sold it to them. So I dont think  I can say it 
was wrong of Bank of Scotland to recommend the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C and Ms C about the MPPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C and Ms C have  said, including that Ms C made a claim in 
2009 for redundancy on the separate cover they had (but not, as I understand matters, 
under the Bank of Scotland  MPPI)  and that they therefore couldnt  have  been  aware  of the 
MPPI or they wouldnt  have duplicated their cover. But for the reasons Ive explained  above,  
I think Mr C and Ms C were aware of the MPPI when Bank of Scotland sold it to them. And 
Ive not seen anything that makes me think this was Bank of Scotlands fault.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr C and Ms C paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland  has already offered to give 
Mr C and Ms C back some of the cost of the MPPI.  I dont think  it needs  to do anything  
more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6611940