K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Casheuronet UK LLC (Casheuronet) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eleven payday loans and an instalment  loan Casheuronet provided  
to Mrs J (under its trading names  of Quick Quid and Pounds  to Pocket)  from April 2010  
onwards. Mrs Js last loan was provided  in November 2012. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Js complaint and thought  that the loans from loan two onwards 
shouldnt have been provided to her. 
Casheuronet disagreed with our adjudicators view. As this is the case and the parties  
havent been able to resolve the compliant  informally, the complaint has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mrs J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mrs J could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. And I think that this 
Ref: DRN68100892is wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments  being  affordable  on this basis 
might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mrs J, I think  that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Mrs J was unlikely to have been able to 
make the required loan repayments  in a sustainable manner for the loans from loan two 
onwards. I say this because:
the loan payments for most of the loans from loan two onwards took up a significant 
proportion of Mrs Js income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that 
Mrs J wouldnt  have been able to meet her existing commitments without having to 
borrow again
From  loan five onwards Mrs J was provided  with new loans shortly  after having 
repaid previous ones. Indeed Mrs J was given payday loans eight to eleven while she 
still had an outstanding instalment loan. So Casheuronet ought to have realised  it 
was more likely than not Mrs J was having to borrow further  to cover the hole the 
repayment of her previous loans left in her finances and that Mrs Js indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs J was provided with loans for a period of approaching three  years. And as Ive 
explained Mrs J was provided with some  loans while she had existing  ones 
outstanding. So not only was she not making  any real inroads to the amount she 
owed Casheuronet her indebtedness  was increasing. And Mrs J had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service an increasing debt to Casheuronet over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs J lost out because Casheuronet provided these  loans because:
they had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing  her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the extended period of time Mrs J owed  Casheuronet  money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding this complaint and Casheuronet should  put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
Ref: DRN68100893refund  all interest and charges Mrs J paid on payday loans two to eleven and the 
instalment loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mrs J owed Casheuronet money means  that any information still 
recorded (if there is any) on her credit file is adverse. So all entries should be 
removed from Mrs Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mrs J a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Js complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Casheuronet) should  pay Mrs J compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6810089