K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he was given by Elliot Fletcher Limited (EF) in 2012 which  
led to him transferring defined benefits from two occupational pension  schemes  (OPS) and 
two personal pensions into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP).
background
Mr W got in touch with EF in November 2011 following a recommendation by a mutual 
friend. He needed  some  mortgage advice and also mentioned  that he had several pensions  
and a buy to let property portfolio which he would like to be reviewed.  Mr W gave EF 
authority to ask his pension providers and schemes for details and information about  his 
existing pension arrangements and transfer  values.
A fact find was completed in April 2012  which recorded his circumstances as follows:
49 years  old, unmarried, no dependants
EUR 6,000 per month income from employment  as well as an additional £6,000  per 
month from 11 buy to let properties  (after deduction of mortgage payments)
He had cash in bank deposit  accounts  of around £170,000
He was planning to become self-employed later that year
He wanted  to retire at age 55 with a minimum income of £60,000-120,000
His agreed main priorities were recorded  as planning for a secure retirement  and 
increasing income in retirement
He had five existing pensions: 
-OPS 1 with a transfer value of around  £51,000
-OPS 2 with a transfer value of around  £180,000
-OPS 3 (Armed Forces Pension)  with a transfer value of around  £30,000
-Personal pension  with a transfer value of around  £1,200
-Personal pension  with a transfer value of around  £4,300
Mr W completed several risk questionnaires for EF. This included  a pension  transfer  
questionnaire which showed Mr W to be a 4 out of 10 (cautious to moderate), a client profile 
risk questionnaire which showed him as just under  5 out of ten (moderate) and a risk profiler  
which was completed  at a later point that came  out as 6 out of 10 (more than moderate). Mr 
Ws attitude to risk was also discussed in the suitability report  and it was acknowledged that 
whilst the risk profiler showed Mr W might have capacity to lose 18% of his pension,  it was 
noted that given your indications of a lower attitude to risk, the actual capacity  for loss 
percentage is probably quite a bit lower  at this time. Given  everything  Ive seen I think Mr 
Ws attitude to risk was moderate  at the most.
On 15 June 2012 EF met with Mr W again and discussed his retirement  planning. EF 
recommended Mr W to transfer OPS 1 as well as the two personal pensions to a SIPP. 
EF recommended Mr W to keep his Armed Forces  Pension.
With regards to OPS 2, Mr W signed  an insistent client declaration on 15 June to confirm  he 
insisted for this pension  to be transferred  to another plan and that he wanted EF to assist  
him with this. He confirmed that EF had explained  the critical yield needed in a new pension 
scheme to match  his OPS  benefits  was 10.5% and that EFs normal limit for transferring 
away would  be a critical yield of 8%. However,  he wished to establish a plan under his own 
Ref: DRN66029552control which offered  flexibility and specifically with the option of purchasing a commercial  
property.
Mr W also signed a SIPP application  and discharge forms for his pensions  (other than the 
Armed Forces Pension) on 15 June.
EF set out their recommendations in a suitability letter dated 2 July which  was signed  by 
Mr W on 11 August.
 
Mr Ws pensions  were transferred into the SIPP in July and August  2012. The funds stayed 
invested in cash  and in November 2012  EF recommended Mr W to invest  his funds through 
a Discretionary  Fund Manager  (DFM)  which he did in February 2013.
In 2018 Mr W complained to EF about the advice  he was given about  his pensions.  He felt 
he had lost guaranteed benefits  by transferring,  something that wasnt properly explained to 
him. He thought  EF had focussed  too much on the benefits of transferring and consolidating 
his pensions in a SIPP but there had been  not enough discussion about the disadvantages  
or any emphasis  on keeping his existing pensions. He thinks the advice he was given was 
unsuitable and he feels he was mis-led.
EF rejected his complaint. They said the SIPP met Mr Ws objectives  which  were:
-greater flexibility and options
-fund choices to meet his current circumstances regarding a commercial  property 
and purchase subsequently  stocks
-annual reviews
-consolidation of his existing pension arrangements
They felt Mr W couldnt have met these objectives  by staying in his existing arrangements  
and thought the transfers were suitable.  They also considered Mr W was given sufficient 
information about his options and knew about the benefits he was giving up. EF also thought  
Mr W had complained outside the regulators  time limits.
Mr W then brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator considered  that Mr W had 
brought his complaint within the relevant  time limits. He then investigated  the merits of 
Mr Ws complaint  and thought it should be upheld. He explained that he didnt think  
transferring Mr Ws OPS  into a SIPP was in his best interest and he didnt consider EF acted 
fairly when  they treated him as an insistent client. The investigator thought Mr W should 
have remained in OPS  1 and 2. He said there  wasnt enough evidence  that transferring the 
personal pensions  had been unsuitable.  
He asked EF to compensate Mr W in accordance with the pension review methodology, as 
amended by the Financial Conduct Authority  in 2017  and pay Mr W an additional  £300  for 
the trouble and upset they caused  Mr W.
EF didnt agree with the investigators  assessment and so the complaint was referred to me 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was satisfied Mr W had complained within 
the regulators time limits. Further,  I set out that based on the information I had, I was 
intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint both in relation  to his OPS schemes and his personal  
Ref: DRN66029553pensions. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional  findings to this decision which  forms part of 
this final decision.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I finalised my decision.  Mr W accepted my findings. EF made further 
submissions which I thank  them for. Ill address their submissions in my findings  below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In particular, I carefully considered EFs further  submissions and comments  to see whether  
they changed my mind.  However, having  considered  everything again,  Im satisfied  that my 
decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint is fair. 
In summary  EF made the following points which Ill address in turn.
Mr W said he was told in August 2016 he shouldnt have transferred his OPS 
pensions into a SIPP. Despite this he didnt complain until 2018 and he spent  £190k  
of his pension  without seemingly obtaining  financial  advice about his options.  It 
appears the Financial  Ombudsman Service hasnt  asked Mr W about this.
Mr W told us that a couple of years  after he had spoken to his former colleague, who told 
him he usually wouldnt  recommend a transfer from a DB scheme, he also heard about 
cases where customers had been wrongly  advised to transfer away from their OPS, so he 
made his complaint through  a claims management  company in 2018. I dont think this is 
implausible. In any event, to establish  whether Mr W complained within  the given time limits, 
it doesnt matter why he didnt complain immediately  after he became aware he had cause 
for concern which I still consider to be August  2016. Here it only matters that he complained  
within three years of this date-which he did. 
EF might  consider that because Mr W was aware he might  have been mis-advised about the 
DB transfer,  its odd he didnt seek advice before he withdrew large sums from his pensions.  
Mr W told us he stopped  having an adviser in 2015  when he realised he was paying a lot of 
ongoing fees for what he considered not a lot of benefit. And his SIPP statements support 
that no more adviser fees were paid from 2015.  So the fact he didnt use an adviser,  
particularly after having doubts about previous  advice he had been given, isnt particularly 
surprising in my opinion. Whilst it would have been  prudent to ask for advice before taking 
out a large sum from his pension,  I dont  think not doing so, calls into doubt the rest of 
Mr Ws testimony.
EF say its factually  incorrect that Mr W got in touch with EFs adviser following a 
recommendation by a mutual friend and that he needed some mortgage  advice. Mr 
W and the adviser knew each other for many years and were already friends which  
isnt denied by Mr W. Mr W contacted  EF for pension transfer advice  and not 
mortgage advice.  This is supported  by the fact that Mr W brought his OPS  2 pension 
statements to the first meeting with EF.
Its not in dispute  that Mr W and EFs adviser knew each other. Mr W told us they came from 
the same  town and attended the same school.  However, he said they hadnt really been  in 
contact for 15 years  and he was reintroduced  to him by a mutual  friend who was one of EFs 
Ref: DRN66029554clients. This is supported  by EFs file note of 26 November which  said: it was good to catch  
up as we had not spoken apart from briefly  last year for possibly 15 years.
EF said themselves in their final response letter to Mr Ws complaint that Mr W :
had initial telephone conversations with the EF adviser in November 2011.  He wanted an 
overall portfolio  review  and advice on obtaining  a mortgage [my emphasis]. The 
mortgage enquiry  was dealt with by our mortgage adviser.
On 28 November 2011, Letters  of Authority were emailed to [Mr W] along with
the request that one is completed  for each  policy that is currently in place and for them  to be 
posted back with copies of the latest statements / correspondence received. [Mr W]
posted this information back to Elliot  Fletcher on 30 November 2011. Information was 
gathered from 13 companies  and on receipt  of this information a meeting was
scheduled [] on Tuesday 3 April 2012 to discuss the findings from [Mr Ws] policies, his 
current objectives, future objectives  and his reasons for requesting an overall portfolio 
review.
So Im satisfied that Mr W didnt contact EF specifically for pension transfer advice and that it 
was EF who requested the relevant  information  from Mr Ws pension and investment 
policies. The received information was discussed  in April 2012. The file note from that 
meeting shows Mr Ws overall financial situation was discussed  in their first meeting, not just 
his pension arrangements.
Mr W told EF about the financial  health of his OPS 2 and not the other way around. 
Its clear he insisted  on transferring  the OPS 2 due to his concerns about  the financial  
security of the scheme.
EF had requested information  from OPS 2 which they received in January 2012.  The file 
note in April 2012  says:
Ive [EFs adviser] explained to him that there  is a deficit  at the moment  of £103m, explained 
to him the current position and that the deadline is 26 April for guaranteeing the transfer 
value.
The note also said Mr W had grave  concerns about  his ex-employer as many  colleagues  
had left the company and he was worried about  the pension with them as well. However, as 
explained in my provisional decision,  this is somewhat contradictory to how Mr W completed  
his pension transfer questionnaire  in which he said he had no concerns about his ex-
employer or their financial stability. And in June the adviser note said:
but after discussing the [OPS 2], he had changed his views because  he really  did want to 
break all ties with his ex-employer, had no faith in them as a company, was well aware of the 
shortfall in their pension  scheme and whatever the circumstances were, he did not want to 
leave his pension  with [OPS2].  
So the above shows it was EF who informed him about the deficit  in the scheme.  It seems  to 
me that Mr W wasnt overly concerned about his scheme before he met with EF. This only 
really seemed to evolve  during his discussions with EF which  led to the records eventually  
indicating that a key reason for transferring was Mr Ws concern about the financial stability 
of the scheme.  
Ref: DRN66029555Even if Mr W did have  concerns about  his ex-employer, it was EFs responsibility  to ease 
such concerns and give Mr W objective  information. Like I said previously, I cant  see for 
example that the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) was properly discussed with Mr W. A 
standard explanation of the PPF is contained  in the suitability report,  but its not mentioned  in 
the previous adviser notes which I would have  expected as it was an important  consideration 
in this case and I cant see that the PPF was discussed in direct response to any concerns 
about OPS 2 and what  this would mean  for Mr W. 
EF says its not fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr W would have followed EFs 
advice not to transfer if they had explained it wasnt in his best interest to transfer. 
EF says Mr W approached EF for pension transfer advice and brought  OPS  2 
statements to his first meeting. He was told there was a deficit recovery  plan to 
resolve the financial stability issue with OPS 2, he knew he would not achieve the 
same level of benefits outside  the OPS 2 and he signed an insistent client 
declaration. None of this has been addressed.
I have to disagree. As explained above  I dont think Mr W came  to EF with the preconceived 
idea to transfer his pension.  I set out in detail in my provisional decision why I think  EF didnt 
provide Mr W with full, fair and balanced information about the transfer. The evidence  I have 
seen from the time of advice suggests  more  emphasis was given to the perceived benefits  of 
transferring than to the benefits  of staying in the OPS and the risks a transfer involved. 
I also explained why I thought their advice process was flawed  and why I didnt consider 
Mr W was a genuine insistent client. 
My findings  in this regard  havent changed. If Mr W had been given a clear  recommendation 
not to transfer  -rather  than what seems like a qualified recommendation to transfer- together  
with a full and balanced reasoning why he should  keep his existing retirement  provisions,  I 
think on balance he would  have followed  this advice. 
EF have mentioned that prior to 1 November 2007  the requirement with regards  to insistent 
clients was to provide  a confirmation and explanation in writing  to the customer  that the 
advice was not to proceed with the pension transfer. EF think I expected them to do more  
than this. They referred to the FCAs recently  published instructions to their Defined Benefit 
Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT).  
First of all, the advice happened  in 2012, so the requirements prior to November 2007 have 
been superseded. Secondly,  for reasons set out in my provisional decisions,  I dont think EF 
treated Mr W fairly in the way they gave their advice. The recommendation not to transfer 
was weakened  and qualified and in essence I dont think they followed good practice or 
treated him fairly in the way they proceeded. Overall, I think  they gave him the impression it 
was reasonable  in his circumstances to transfer, when in fact it wasnt in his best interest.
No evidence was provided that it was possible to retire from OPS  1 and OPS 2 at 
age 55. It was important for Mr W to retire early. On the basis that there  was no 
guarantee he could have  taken benefits  early  from his OPS pensions,  how would Mr 
W have intended to fund his retirement  without an early pension  from the OPS  
schemes or a transfer to a SIPP,  considering  that he was asset rich but cash poor.
On 18 January 2012 the OPS 2 trustees  sent EF a retirement statement for Mr W. It included 
additional information about  the pension plan and said:
Ref: DRN66029556The Plans normal retirement  age is age 60. Early  retirement is currently  permitted from age 
50. However, this will increase to age 55 by 6 April 2010. 
The scheme booklet was also enclosed which said under the heading  what  is a deferred 
pension?: If you prefer, a smaller  pension may be paid early  with the agreement of the 
Trustee. You may apply for early payment of your deferred pension at any age from 50.
So Im satisfied early retirement  from age 55 was possible in OPS  2. Similar considerations 
apply to the OPS  1. Its information sent by the administrators stated early retirement was 
permitted from age 50. In the following I have focussed on OPS  2 as this made  up the bulk 
of Mr Ws pension provisions.
I cant see that EF even considered early retirement  by staying in the OPS. Mr W would 
have needed agreement from the Trustees,  so EF is correct that there always  would have 
been a small degree of uncertainty  whether this would be allowed.  However,  early  retirement  
from deferred benefits isnt unusual and commonly needs the trustees  consent,  so unless 
EF knew that the scheme was likely not to grant a request  from Mr W, I think  it would have 
been a reasonable assumption he would have  been  able to do this. The same document that 
stated early retirement was permitted,  explained about the deficit and the recovery  plan. If 
the scheme felt early  retirement wasnt an option because  of their deficit  I think  its likely this 
would have been mentioned. 
Of course this position could have changed in the years until Mr Ws retirement. However, if 
at some point the scheme had decided not to allow early retirement anymore, Mr W still 
could have considered a transfer at that point if needed. He could have  deferred  this 
decision until he got to his planned  retirement age when he would have had a better idea of 
what he needed and could afford. Whilst Mr W had aspirations in 2012  to retire at age 55 on 
a certain income,  he was about to become self-employed and was in the process of moving 
back to the UK, so its unlikely his plans would  have been set in stone. I dont think  just 
because there wasnt  a cast iron guarantee of early retirement, it justified a transfer which 
would likely  leave him worse off in retirement than taking benefits from the OPS. 
At the time of the advice I think it was reasonable to consider  Mr W could access benefits at 
age 55 through  his OPS if he wanted  to and that a transfer wasnt required just for this 
reason. I would also like to remind EF that I consider  their projections to show  Mr W could 
meet his desired income of at least £60,000  per year income at age 55 by transferring into 
the SIPP to be not realistically  achievable.  Providing this level of income  wasnt possible 
through the OPS either, but even less so in the SIPP. So this was misleading. His future  
income could have been possibly increased by making further contributions,  but again Mr W 
didnt need the SIPP for this. He could  have made  additional contributions  into his existing 
personal pensions  or a new plan, all of which he could have accessed at age 55. 
I dont know for certain whether Mr Ws OPS would have allowed him to take early 
retirement at age 55 in 2018. Mr Ws ex-employer  connected to OPS  2 went into liquidation 
in 2019, so its possible that a year previously the scheme might have been reluctant to grant  
early retirement benefits in order to keep costs down. But on the other hand, early  retirement  
benefits are lower than normal  retirement age benefits to make up for the fact that they are 
likely to be paid longer, so the scheme might  have just continued to allow  benefits to be 
taken as normal until they actually went into liquidation.
If I assumed  Mr W couldnt access his OPS benefits at age 55, I think he would have stayed 
in the scheme  until its normal retirement  age which was 60. I think  on balance  he either 
Ref: DRN66029557would have decided  to remain in the scheme and wait for his benefits or even if he had 
considered a transfer again he would have needed financial advice. And I dont think its 
likely a financial adviser would have recommended a transfer in order for Mr W to withdraw a 
significant sum from his pension provisions for a home renovation project. 
I appreciate that in these circumstances Mr W might not have had enough  funds to fully 
retire-although given that he had property that produced a significant income or which  he 
alternatively could  have sold as well as other investments its not impossible. However, as I 
said before  Mr W was only 55 and I dont think its unreasonable to assume that he could 
have continued  to work (full or part-time) or live on a lower  income  for a while- if he had 
needed to. In any event, all of this doesnt change my view that at the time of the advice in 
2012, the fact that accessing  funds  from the OPS at age 55 wasnt  fully guaranteed, wasnt 
sufficient reason to justify  a transfer at that point.
So whether  early retirement  was allowed by the OPS  in 2018 or not, I dont think Mr W would 
have transferred out of the scheme.  The only difference is whether he would have  accessed  
benefits at 55 or 60 (or 65 in the OPS1).
As I have no evidence that the OPS wouldnt have  granted Mr W early  retirement,  I think its 
reasonable in the circumstances to assume Mr W could have accessed his benefits at age 
55. Its worth noting that this isnt disadvantaging  EF as Mr W at age 60/65  would  have 
received higher benefits.  
EF stopped being  Mr Ws adviser from 2013. They say if its clear investments were  
made which were different to those recommended by EF, they should not be held 
responsible for investments outside of their control. 
In my provisional decision I considered EFs argument that they stopped  being  Mr Ws 
adviser from late 2013, so they shouldnt be held responsible for any investment losses he 
might have suffered  through  advice by another firm after this point, for example if he 
invested into something particularly high risk. However, I said I hadnt seen any evidence  
that Mr W was advised to invest in a significantly  different  way after he stopped  having  EF as 
his advisers. 
Mr W was advised by EF to invest through a DFM which he did in 2013.  Mr W says when he 
followed EFs adviser to another firm he had two annual reviews  in which he simply was told 
there would be no changes required to the SIPP which ultimately led him to remove the 
adviser as he didnt see any benefit of paying  ongoing adviser fees. Mr W says he hasnt 
had an adviser since  (which is supported by no adviser fees on his statements after 2015) 
and kept being invested through  the same  DFM  since.
If it wasnt for EFs advice Mr W wouldnt have  been in the DFM and I havent seen evidence 
that he invested in something significantly different through  a different adviser. EF 
recommended Mr W to invest  through a DFM with a balanced approach. Ive seen 
statements from 2017 to 2019 which show Mr W was still invested through  the same DFM 
with a risk level 4-which is medium risk- and in 2020  he still remained with the same  DFM  
invested in a couple of global  equity funds. Im satisfied that Mr W didnt invest  significantly 
differently after EF stopped being  his advisers.  So I dont see any reason in these 
circumstances to apportion some  of the compensation  to be paid by EF. 
Ref: DRN66029558putting things right
None of the comments EF made have changed my view on this complaint. I still consider 
that if they had advised Mr W properly and fairly,  he would have remained in his existing 
OPS and personal pensions and should be compensated for any potential  losses  he 
suffered as a consequence.
1)With regards to OPS 1 and 2:
EF should undertake  a redress  calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: 
Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
For the purpose of calculations I still think its reasonable to assume  that Mr W would have 
started taking his benefits from age 55 to access his TFC and start an income. If OPS 2 has 
since gone into the PPF (which would have affected  Mr Ws income), then calculations  can 
take this into account  as per guidance  of the FCA.
When comparing the values of the OPS  benefits with Mr Ws current  pension benefits,  EF 
can add any gross withdrawals Mr W made from the SIPP  to the current SIPP  value.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. EF must  
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
EF must  re-run the calculation within a month  of the amended guidance being published  
ensuring that any shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly made up to Mr W. 
EF need only re-run the calculation  once,  to take account  of amendments currently planned 
by the FCA. EF does not subsequently need to recalculate following any further 
amendments the regulator might later make. 
Alternatively, EF may wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr W in 
this case.
EF may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain  Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P  
entitlement.
This calculation should  be based  on the corresponding proportion of Mr Ws SIPP  fund 
value, and the benefits drawn, as relates  to the total transfer value paid into the SIPP from 
OPS 1 and 2.
Ref: DRN660295592)With regards to the two personal  pensions:
EF should: 
A)obtain notional  values from both providers assuming  Mr W had continued  to stay in 
his personal pensions in his existing  investments  up to the day he took his TFC from 
the SIPP on 28 June  2018.
B)calculate the investment return of the SIPP from the date the two personal pensions  
were originally  transferred  into it until 28 June  2018, and apply this to the original 
transfer amount  from the two personal pensions
C)compare A and B. 
If A is higher, the difference between A and B is Mr Ws loss.
If B is higher, Mr W has experienced a gain with regards  to the transfer  of his 
personal pensions.  
D)The result  of C) should  be treated as 25% tax-free cash  and the rest as a residual 
fund: 
- if there is a loss from C) then this tax-free cash and residual fund amount should  be 
subtracted from the SIPP benefits that are being  used as the comparison with the 
OPS benefits in calculation 1). In this way, Mr Ws overall loss is increased.
- if there is a gain from C) then this tax-free  cash and residual fund amount should be 
added to the SIPP benefits  that are being  used as the comparison with the OPS 
benefits in calculation 1). In this way, Mr Ws overall  loss is reduced.
The total compensation amount as calculated under 1), and adjusted  according to 2) above  
should if possible be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 40%.  So making a notional  deduction of 30% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The above  puts Mr W as much as possible in the position he would be in now if he was 
given suitable  advice by EF. Whilst its unfortunate Mr W had to complain I dont see that 
being in the SIPP instead of the OPS  and personal pensions has caused him particular 
distress or inconvenience since  it happened. So I wont award any additional compensation 
in this regard.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr W within  90 days  of the date 
EF receives notification of his acceptance  of my final decision.  Further  interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
Ref: DRN660295510final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes EF to 
pay Mr W.
If EF chooses to wait until publication  of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance before 
calculating and paying the compensation, the 90 days will start from the date the FCA 
publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
my final decision
Decision and award: For the reasons  I explained above Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and 
I request Elliot Fletcher Limited  to pay the compensation as set out above up to a maximum 
of £150,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Elliot  Fletcher Limited pays Mr W the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Elliot  Fletcher Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to get independent legal advice  before  
deciding whether to accept  my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN660295511copy of my provisional decision
Time limits
This service cant look at every complaint that is brought to us. The rules  under which we
operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct
Authoritys handbook. Amongst other things  the rules  in DISP set out the timeframes in
which a complaint  needs  to be made.
EF says Mr W has referred  his complaint to this service outside the regulators time limits.
The relevant time limits are set out in DISP 2.8.2R. When Mr W referred his complaint to this service  
in March 2013  it said:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint  if the complainant refers it to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which  the respondent sent the complainant  its final 
response or redress determination or summary resolution  communication;  or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event  complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent  or to the Ombudsman within that 
period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been 
received. 
six-months time limit 
EF issued  their final response on 21 November 2018 and we received Mr Ws complaint on 
28 March  2019, so well within the six-months time limit.
six- and three-year time limits
Mr W complained to EF with a letter of 28 September 2018  which was acknowledged by EF on 2 
November 2018. So for the purposes of the time limits in DISP  2.8.2 (2) the complaint was referred at 
the end of September  2018.  The complaint is about advice that happened in June/July 2012, so he 
complained just outside the six-year time limit. 
I then needed to consider when he became  aware  or ought to have reasonably become  aware  that he 
had cause for complaint. If this was more  than three years before he complained  (i.e. before late 
September 2015),  then he complained  outside  the given time limits.
Mr W says he first became  concerned when he was speaking to a former colleague from the Armed 
Forces -who had since become a financial adviser-  at a formal dinner  in August 2016 which  he 
showed us the invitation for. When he mentioned that he had cashed in his final salary  pensions,  his 
former colleague told him he would  never recommend giving up these  benefits. A couple  of years 
later he also heard about cases where customers had been wrongly advised to transfer away from 
their OPS, so he made his complaint through a claims management company  in 2018.
EF is concerned  that Mr Ws adviser left EF in 2013 and might have encouraged Mr W to make the 
complaint as he left the firm on acrimonious terms. They also wanted to see evidence  of advice given 
to Mr W after 2015 when they say he changed advisers  again. Mr W explained  to us that he followed 
EFs adviser to his new firm in 2013. But after having paid £500 in adviser fees in 2013 and 2014 
without any real benefit, he chose  to proceed without an adviser. This is supported  by his SIPP 
statements which show no more adviser fees after 2015.
Ref: DRN660295512I find Mr Ws testimony plausible in this regard and the SIPP statements support what he says. So I 
think its likely he became  aware in August  2016 that he might have  cause for complaint about the 
advice given to him with regards to his pensions. I also havent  seen any information which  makes me 
think he should have  had awareness  earlier.
So Im satisfied he has complained  in time.
merits of Mr Ws complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Transfer of OPS  1
Theres no dispute that EF advised Mr W to transfer his OPS  1, so Ill start considering this transfer 
first. At the time EF gave  Mr W advice COBS 19.1.6  said 
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member of a defined benefits occupational  
pension scheme  whether  to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming  that a transfer or opt-
out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary  evidence, that the transfer  or opt-out  is in the client's  best 
interests.
Financial viability
In their suitability report EF said that the Transfer Value Analysis Report (TVAS)  showed a critical 
yield of 7% on the basis  that tax-free cash (TFC) was taken together with a reduced pension at age 
65. However, Mr W was looking to retire at age 55. So I think  using the critical yield to age 65 was 
misleading. The information from the OPS shows that early retirement with reduced benefits  was 
possible (from  age 50). The TVAS showed a critical  yield to age 60 as 10.3% if Mr W took a higher 
pension without TFC or 9% if he chose  TFC and a reduced pension.
Although its noted that access  to a lump sum wasnt a high priority for Mr W, this is commonly taken  
to benefit from it being paid tax free. So I think it wouldnt be unreasonable  to use the critical yields  for 
TFC plus a reduced pension, which would be 9% until age 60. If he took the pension at 55 its likely  
that this critical  yield would  be even higher. But even if I go with the critical yield of 9% to age 60 its 
clear that Mr W was very unlikely to match  his OPS benefits  in a new pension.
The advice was given  during  the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 
'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about  a past pension 
transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses  weren't required to refer to these rates  when giving 
advice on pension transfers, I consider  they provide a useful indication  of what growth  rates would 
have been considered  reasonably achievable  when  the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required  to match the occupational pension at age 60 was 9% 
per year. This compares  with the discount rate of 5.8% per year for 11 years to age 60. The discount 
rate would have been even lower (around 5.1%) if the assumed retirement  age was 55. 
Given Mr Ws attitude to risk I dont think he would have been able to achieve  much more than the 
discount rates  in his new pension. And that was just to match his OPS benefits. To make  a transfer 
financially viable, benefits should have a reasonable chance  to exceed the existing  benefits. Given  
EFs own policy to not recommend a transfer if the critical  yield was over 8%, they shouldnt have 
recommended this transfer. For completeness I would like to add though that even if I considered  
their stated critical yield of 7% (to age 65), it would still have been very unlikely Mr W could have 
matched his OPS  benefits  in retirement.
Ref: DRN660295513Although financial viability is an important consideration, its not the only factor why a transfer can be 
suitable, so I considered whether it was reasonable  to recommend a transfer anyway.
Early retirement  
Mr W wanted  to retire  early, preferably at age 55 with a minimum pension of £60,000 per year.  Taking  
benefits at age 55 was possible in both OPS schemes, but I cant see that this option was even 
considered by EF. So a transfer to enable  early retirement  in itself wasnt necessary. 
Achieving a pension income of £60,000 from age 55 wouldnt have likely  been possible  if he had 
stayed in his existing pensions  without making  further contributions  (for example  in his personal  
pensions or into a new plan), however as shown  above this was even less likely in a SIPP. I can see 
in EFs adviser notes  in June that they looked at consolidating his pensions, looked at commercial  
property and looked to grow his funds to £1m which  they said could provide him with £50,000-
£60,000 a year. However, I dont think  it was realistic that the growth in the SIPP would increase his 
total funds of around  £230,000 to £1m or even £800,000 (a figure  EF used  for illustrations too) in six 
years. I can see that EF was taking into account further contributions. However, Mr W could have also 
made additional  contributions into one of his existing  personal pensions or a separate  plan if he 
wanted to.
EF portrayed the possibility of early  retirement  in the SIPP with unrealistic returns  and they did not 
even explore what early  retirement  might look like if he remained in his OPS.
Flexibility, more options and control
EF said Mr W wanted  flexibility and more options  and control with his pension.  I cant  see that Mr W 
was a particularly experienced investor that actively managed his finances.  In the fact find he 
completed a knowledge section in which he said he had reasonable  knowledge of investments 
having previously purchased investment/pension contracts. 
The other  choices were  no knowledge whatsoever and this would  be my first investment which was 
obviously untrue or strong knowledge of investments  having previously purchased 
investments/pension contracts.  I take an active interest in following investment markets  and reviewing 
my financial  plans.
So he essentially confirmed he had some investments  before, but I dont think given the options 
available his answer  indicated he had any considerable  experience. Mr W had a previous adviser who 
had set up some endowment policies, investment bonds and the personal  pension policies. But it 
seems this was all very much adviser led.  Mr W did have a large portfolio of residential  buy-to-let 
properties. And I dont doubt that he had some  understanding of residential property investment, but I 
still dont think this made him an experienced  investor when it came to his pension planning. I cant  
see any evidence  that Mr W had experience  or a strong interest  or need in choosing specific funds or 
invest through a DFM. 
Its possible that he thought a drawdown option  with the flexibility to choose an income when and if 
needed was attractive. However,  I cant see that this was a concrete  objective or that this option was 
explored in detail. And in any event, if he really needed a drawdown plan at any point after age 55, he 
could have considered transferring his OPS then. There was no imminent need to do this six years 
prior.
commercial property
The SIPP gave Mr W the option to invest in commercial property. Something  that wasnt possible in 
his OPS. Theres a dispute about whether this was a real objective for Mr W at the time or whether 
this was suggested  by EF. I carefully considered the contemporaneous evidence I have with regards 
to this point.  
Ref: DRN660295514There is no doubt that the option of commercial  property was discussed at the time and I cant see 
that this is disputed by either party. However,  I cant see that this was a specific objective  Mr W had in 
mind when he approached EF for advice on his pension  arrangements. His fact find doesnt mention 
anything about commercial property and the adviser note in April 2012 says:
I explained to him the mechanics of using a Self-Invested Personal  Pension to buy commercial 
property.  I explained to him that with this he can also have diversification and also a joint purchase.  
He really started liking the idea. 
We spent  quite some time on going through the process of this and the sort of properties that he 
could buy and his understanding was that Self-Invested  Personal Pensions had been scrapped.  He 
then mentioned friends of his, one who has bought  commercial  property in the Newquay area and one 
of his friends who is very wealthy  and has bought particular commercial  property in the Cardiff area.  
This is something that has now really  given  him a further consideration on what his future  will be as 
he didnt realise that his total pension fund was circa  £282,000
I think  the above shows  that it was EF who introduced  the idea of commercial  property investment 
and that Mr W only started thinking about this after their discussions.
The adviser  notes in June  say (with  regards to OPS2) Mr W would rather have it under  his own 
control so that when  he starts considering business opportunities, hell have a fund that can be 
utilised to purchase a commercial property to trade out of.  This is his main  route;  however if things 
change and he continues working [as an employee], he will then look at an investment strategy  which 
in September will be clearer and then by January definitely.
There wasnt any more  detail recorded about any concrete plans at this point with regards to 
commercial property. Mr W made his decision to proceed with the transfer the same day.
In the suitability report  dated 2 July, EF confirms there were no specific plans or even decisions made 
about this at this stage.  It said: It is your intention to buy a commercial  property with the funds  in the 
SIPP however this will be discussed  and decided  at a later date.
An internal email at EF shows that by the end of October 2012  Mr W was unlikely to purchase a 
commercial property. In November 2012, EF advised Mr W to invest  through a DFM instead.
In July 2013,  the adviser note recorded the following:  
Mr W and EFs adviser visited premises  that Mr W was considering as a potential commercial 
property investment together with a friend. The purchase price was £600k-£700k and Mr W could 
borrow £350k  by also using his pension  fund. His friend had estimated they could get £75,000 in rent 
which was a 10% return. He didnt want to risk his main residence or his property portfolio but sees  
his pension scheme  as a bonus and could  do this as a five year project. EF also said they would 
discuss this with other clients who might invest around  £100k of their pension fund into this project.
Mr W didnt  proceed with this investment and he says this was the only commercial property he ever 
considered. I havent seen any evidence  to contradict this or make me doubt the plausibility of his 
statement.
Having looked at this evidence from the time of the advice, I cant  see that buying  commercial 
property was an objective  to the extent that it would  override any other considerations  including the 
financial viability of a transfer.  It looks like EF introduced the idea of investing into commercial  
property and Mr W found  this attractive.  But he had no concrete plans and I cant see that the 
financial risks of investing  into commercial property  through a SIPP  were  explained either. It doesnt 
seem this was a properly thought through option.
 
Looking at the investment  for example  he was considering in July 2013  and which  EF was giving him 
planning advice for, I cant see that this would  have been an investment  that matched Mr Ws attitude 
Ref: DRN660295515to risk and capacity for loss. He essentially would  have  invested a large part of his pension provisions 
into one asset. 
To summarise, I dont think the possibility of investing into commercial  property was enough  to justify 
the transfer of his OPS. Even if Mr W was very interested  in buying commercial  property,  the transfer 
to the SIPP still wasnt in his best interest.
consolidation
I also cant  see that Mr W had any particular  reason  to consolidate his pensions. The OPS needed no 
management and attracted  no fees.  
In summary, I dont think transferring benefits from the OPS1 was suitable  in Mr Ws circumstances.
Transfer of OPS  2
The same  considerations about financial viability,  flexibility and control, commercial  property and early 
retirement apply to the transfer of Mr Ws OPS 2. This scheme also allowed early  retirement  from 55 
and the TVAS did set out the critical  yield to age 55 which wasnt 10.5% as EF told Mr W (this was to 
age 60), but 13.1%  on the basis he took TFC and a reduced  pension.  In any event, the transfer wasnt 
financially viable. However, I think its worth mentioning that it looks like EFs own policy was not to 
facilitate any transfers with a critical  yield of over 11%. In their note of 15 June they say:
Ive said once  again  that this critical yield is above our 8% which we normally allow or even 
recommend; however because of the circumstances and it is below  the 11% which we allow 
transfers to operate through our company [my emphasis]
And I think that was likely  the main reason  why they didnt go ahead  with the transfer of the Armed 
Forces pension which  they said had a critical yield of 11.1%.
So just based on this alone, EF shouldnt  have facilitated the transfer of OPS 2. However, I 
considered the other arguments  that have been put forward. 
financial security of OPS  2
When Mr W completed his pension transfer profiles he ticked boxes for this OPS to say he left on 
good terms  with his employer and had no reason to question the security  of the company or the 
manner in which the pension fund is administered. He also ticked a box to say he had no reason to 
question the financial  stability of his ex-employer and didnt mind whether his benefits  remain under 
their control.
In the adviser note in June it says:
but after discussing the [OPS 2], he had changed his views because he really did want to break all 
ties with his ex-employer, had no faith in them as a company, was well aware  of the shortfall  in their 
pension scheme and whatever the circumstances  were, he did not want to leave his pension  with 
[OPS2].  He has talked  to previous colleagues  who have also exited the scheme  and he would rather 
have it under his own control so that when he starts considering business  opportunities, hell have a 
fund that can be utilised to purchase a commercial property to trade out of.
He at all costs wants to get out of [OPS  2] and even just put it in a Cash Fund which  he feels is safer 
at the moment .  [my  emphasis]
I think  the above indicates  that a key reason  Mr W decided to transfer this OPS was due to his 
concerns about the financial security of his scheme.
It's recorded  that the scheme had a deficit.  The suitability report indicates  that 
Ref: DRN660295516Mr W knew about the underfunding of the scheme before their discussions,  but his original answers  
on the pension transfer profile contradict this somewhat. EF had requested information from the 
different pension providers and schemes prior to this meeting in June,  so I think its likely the financial 
status of the OPS was pointed  out to Mr W then.
Whether Mr W had concerns  before  he had discussions  with EF or not, it was EFs responsibility to 
ease these concerns and give him objective information,  rather  than just follow his instructions. I cant 
see for example that Pension Protection Fund (PPF) was properly discussed  with Mr W. A standard  
explanation of the PPF is contained in the suitability  report, but its not mentioned in the previous 
adviser notes  which I would have expected to be mentioned as it was an important consideration in 
this case  and I cant see that the PPF was discussed in direct response to any concerns about  OPS 2 
and what this would mean for Mr W. 
The TVAS for example showed the critical yield at age 60 if the scheme went into the PPF that day as 
8.3%. At age 55 the PPF would have paid 90% of the pension accrued, so the critical yield likely 
would have been lower.  However, even with reduced benefits its still unlikely Mr W would have  been 
worse off than if he transferred. So the risks of staying  in an underfunded  scheme  werent anywhere  
as high as Mr W might  have thought. I cant see this was explained.
insistent client
EF says they didnt recommend the OPS 2 transfer. They recommended against the transfer but Mr 
W signed an insistent  client declaration that he wanted to go ahead anyway.  
Ive carefully considered the insistent client  process EF followed  here.
COBS 9 didnt include  a specific rule on insistent clients  at the time of the advice. However, COBS 
2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly, fairly  and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client.
Ive also taken  into account that the regulator  issued a factsheet to advisers  in 2015 to provide a 
helpful reminder of the regulators position  on advising  insistent  clients. 
This followed a thematic review it had conducted on advice for insistent clients in 2014.
Whilst the advice by EF was given before the factsheet was issued,  the regulator made it clear that 
the answers they provided in the factsheet  reflected existing rules and this wasnt a change of policy 
or new interpretation of the rules.
The key steps to take when  advising an insistent client in the regulators view were:
1.To provide suitable  advice for the individual client and this advice must be clear  to the 
client
2.To be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen  course of action
3.It should be clear to the client that their actions are against the advisers  advice.
During the industry-wide  review of pension  transfers and opt-outs in the 1990s the regulator had also 
suggested that a note in the clients own hand provided  compelling evidence  of their insistence  to 
proceed.
I think  EF could have  made it a lot clearer  that they were recommending against the transfer of his 
OPS 2. In their suitability report under choices  regarding pension fund they said they recommended  
option 4 which was consolidate the benefits from OPS2,  OPS  1 and the personal pension  plans to a 
vehicle of your choice  to assist you in meeting the aforementioned objectives.  They also used 
language like usually we wouldnt recommend and under normal circumstances this is too high a 
return to achieve in medium risk environment. [my emphasis]. Their communications gave the 
impression at times that they usually wouldnt do it but in his circumstances and if he signed  a 
document it would be ok. 
Ref: DRN660295517I acknowledge at one point in the suitability report EF said they couldnt recommend  transferring away 
from the OPS due to the critical yield being  over 8%. However, they then immediately discussed that 
the scheme was in deficit of £103m in 2008 and whilst there had been a recovery  plan, due to 
adverse investment conditions, that deficit had risen to £194.2m  in 2010. The OPS  said they expected 
the plan to be fully funded by 2014 but this couldnt be guaranteed. They  said Mr W felt that under  the 
circumstances it was better to transfer the policy into his own name under his control and wished to 
go ahead with the transfer.
I think  the recommendation  against the transfer was again weakened by immediately discussing the 
financial status of the OPS and mentioning any efforts to fund the scheme werent guaranteed  which  
would have likely confirmed any concerns Mr W might have had rather  than put them into perspective.  
This reads  much more  as a qualified recommendation  to transfer, than the opposite.
The insistent client letter  was written by EF and internal  EF communication dated  12 June shows that 
this was drafted for compliance  before  the meeting with Mr W in which he was given details about 
his pensions and made the decision to proceed with the transfer. The adviser  had also asked a 
colleague to prepare  for Mr Ws OPS 1 and 2 to go to a SIPP into cash  to enable a property purchase 
and also prepare a DFM report. So EF already  expected  that Mr W would continue to proceed against 
the advisers recommendation and his reasons  why before this meeting. Bearing  in mind  that an 
adviser should reasonably expect a client to follow their recommendation, having  this insistent letter 
ready for Mr W to sign is concerning. Mr W was given  advice and proceeded  the same  day. He was 
given no time to digest the recommendation  (which  at this point was only given verbally) to make his 
decision and express in his own words why he still wanted to proceed.
Theres no doubt that Mr W signed this letter and I think its reasonable to assume he also read it, but 
I cant  see that Mr W was given clear and balanced information about the benefits  of the OPS and the 
risks of proceeding with this transfer  to enable him to make an informed decision.  
Critical yields are mentioned  several  times by EF including in the insistent client letter but this seems 
all very abstract.  I think its unlikely a lay person would  have understood or appreciated  the relevance 
to their personal situation  and retirement income  from this. EF should  have made it really clear that 
given the critical yield and his attitude to risk, it was very likely his benefits would be lower in 
retirement. In the adviser notes EF explain what benefits he might be able to achieve  in the SIPP 
(projections which Ive noted in the section  of OPS 1 were overstated),  but I havent seen evidence  
that it was discussed what his financial situation would  look like in monetary terms if he stayed in his 
OPS and that these benefits were valuable,  guaranteed benefits  which werent  subjected  to 
investment risks. Early  retirement  in the OPS wasnt discussed  and an objective picture of the security 
of the scheme and the substantive protections through the PPF and how this would affect  Mr Ws 
benefits wasnt  given as far as I can see. The evidence  I have seen from the time of advice suggests 
more emphasis was given to perceived  benefits of transferring than to the benefits of staying in the 
OPS and the risks a transfer involved.
Overall, I think  EFs advice process  was lacking here. I think if they had properly explained  all of the 
above to Mr W and made it clear that it wasnt in his best interest to transfer,  I think  its more likely 
than not he would have  followed this advice.  Im not considering  Mr W acted as genuine  insistent 
client as he wasnt given full, clear and balanced information by EF before he made  his decision.
personal pensions
If it had been suitable  to transfer  his OPS  into a SIPP then there might have been an argument to 
consolidate his two personal pensions into it as well. However, without the transfer of the OPS  there 
was no good reason to switch his relatively small personal pensions into a SIPP.  Any additional  
charges wouldnt have been justified. The adviser  note of 15 June  supports this when  it says: 
we then discussed the [personal pensions].and  with the total value of £5,000,  we would not 
normally recommend lowering these amounts with costs but overall as were  charging a total of 2% 
Ref: DRN660295518cost for all 4 recommendations and also the recommendation not to move the Armed Forces Pension,  
this is sufficient. 
It implies a transfer from the personal  pensions  wouldnt have recommended  if it wasnt for the OPS 
recommendations.
conclusion
I dont think the advice to transfer Mr Ws OPS  1 and two personal pensions  was suitable and I dont 
consider Mr W to be a genuine insistent  client. I dont think EF treated him fairly with regard to the 
advice they gave about his OPS 2.
Mr W should have been advised to stay in his existing pension arrangements and if he had been 
given clear and full information, I think he wouldve followed that advice.
events after the advice
In 2018, at age 55, Mr W took his TFC from the SIPP  and withdrew further large amounts,  totalling  
over £190k. Mr W told us he spent this money on major  renovations of his home  to include a music 
studio after attending  music college in 2017. EF considers this shows Mr W needed  the flexibility  of a 
SIPP and if he had stayed  in his OPS he wouldnt  have been able to do this.
As I said above Mr W still could have taken benefits from his OPS and personal pensions at age 55 
even if he hadnt transferred.  Its correct  that if Mr W had stayed in the OPS  he couldnt have 
withdrawn such a large lump sum within  a couple of years and he has now made  use of this flexibility. 
But theres no indication that Mr W had plans for such a renovation project at the time of the advice. 
So I dont think his decision six years later to use available funds is an indication that he always 
wanted and, more  importantly, should have transferred out of his OPS. I cant  see that Mr W had a 
need to do this project to an extent that a transfer would have likely been suitable  even at age 55.
Mr W said he didnt have access to a drawdown  plan, he could have accessed funds  by 
remortgaging, taking  a loan and/or selling one of his buy-to-let properties instead. He said he 
calculated the additional  mortgage  payments  in 2018 but thought it was a better option to utilise  his 
TFC and further funds from the SIPP.
Based on what we know  about his financial circumstances in 2012 I think its plausible that Mr W 
could have found different options in 2018  to finance  his home renovation if he was still in the OPS  
and couldnt access the full lump sum as he did. I think he could have used his TFC from the OPS 
schemes and funds from his personal pensions  as well to pay some  of the costs.
And even  if I assume  he couldnt obtain the remaining funds elsewhere through a loan or by selling  
one of his buy to let properties, I dont  think its reasonable to say he would have more likely  than not 
transferred his OPS  benefits  for this purpose. He might  have decided  not to do the renovation  or on a 
smaller scale.  If he had considered  transferring his OPS benefits again,  he would have needed  
financial advice to this and its more  likely a professional adviser would have  thought it was unsuitable 
to use the majority of his pension provisions on a home renovation project  and advised against  this.
So I dont think what Mr W did in 2018 supports that he always would have transferred his OPS even  
without EFs advice and facilitation. 
EF thinks theres a conflict between his recorded retirement objectives in 2012 and what he did with 
his funds in 2018. I appreciate Mr W didnt  use his pension funds as retirement income  like he 
indicated he wanted  to in 2012. However, whilst  Mr W had aspirations  in 2012 to retire at age 55 on a 
certain income, he was about  to become self-employed and was in the process of moving back to the 
UK, so I dont think his plans  would  have  been  set in stone. Plans  can change  in six years and 
obviously did. I dont think the discrepancies of what he said he wanted in 2012 and what  he did six 
years later are in any way suspicious.
Ref: DRN6602955