K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the service provided by Aviva Life and Pensions  Limited  when he 
wished to access his pension savings. Hes also dissatisfied with the performance of his 
fund.
background
Mr A prefers  to be addressed in a particular way, but in this decision to ensure he cant  be 
identified Ill refer to him as Mr A.
Mr A has had a personal pension plan with Aviva since  1989.  Its invested in Avivas  Mixed 
Investment Fund which is exposed to the UK stock market. Since  inception  Mr A has made 
contributions of just over £18,000 but none  have been made  since  2011. 
In early 2019, when  he was 61, Mr A received a pension snapshot statement which  showed  
his fund value  as just over £67,500 with an investment gain over the year of £344. Mr A was 
expecting it to have  increased by around  £6,000. He was concerned  as he was thinking of 
accessing his pension savings to use the funds to secure the future of the building  he both 
lives and works in. Hes very ill and needs the money for the time he has left. 
Aviva explained  the fund value was down to the overall performance of the stock market  
which has been influenced by external factors beyond  its control. And if Mr A wished to 
access his pension hed need to follow Avivas  process which involved completing some  
paperwork, to ensure  he understood the implications of what he wanted to do. Aviva 
explained Mr A could take 25% tax free cash,  but hed pay tax on the balance.  It sent him 
the information and forms to enable him to decide  how to proceed. It also suggested he 
might wish to take financial advice or consult Penson Wise. 
There was some correspondence back and forth where Aviva  sent Mr A pension quotations 
and forms but couldnt  accept them in the way Mr A had completed  them.  He didnt agree to 
some of the regulatory  and process  requirements  such as the privacy notice and verification 
checks. He also didnt think he should pay any tax. In view of the time it was taking Mr A 
attempted to impose a penalty clause on Aviva unless they paid him immediately. Aviva  was 
concerned that Mr A didnt fully understand the risks involved, and that he might  be 
disadvantaged. In total it sent four sets of forms to Mr A, but none were completed in a way 
Aviva found  acceptable.  
Mr A escalated his concerns to Avivas Chief Executives office. He said Aviva should pay 
him just over £103,000 which he felt reflected the true value of his fund and the 
compensation due, by cheque without further  delay.  And he expected to receive the entire 
balance without any tax deducted. Aviva said it couldnt do that and explained again why Mr 
A needed to complete the forms properly in order to move forward.  Although Aviva had 
originally said it could  issue a cheque it now said funds  would only be sent electronically to 
an account in Mr As name. It would ensure Mr A wasnt financially disadvantaged by any 
delays. And as Mr A had suggested he was at risk of losing his home, if necessary it would 
consider any evidence Mr A could  provide  in relation  to accommodation  or relocation costs. 
Mr A remained unhappy  and complained to this service.
One of our investigators  reviewed the case  and felt Aviva had treated Mr A fairly. She 
thought the explanation Aviva had given for the underperformance of his pension was 
Ref: DRN67812702reasonable, she said Aviva was legally obliged to deduct tax, and she thought Aviva was 
entitled to require Mr A to complete its paperwork to access  his pension. 
Mr A was very unhappy  with her view which he said had made him unwell. He asked that 
this service instruct Aviva to pay him the balance of his fund plus an equal  amount in 
compensation.  As the investigator didnt think this would be fair, its been  passed to me to 
make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why.  
I havent looked into whether Mr As pension is invested in the right fund for his 
circumstances as I dont  know  how he came to have his pension with Aviva, or who gave 
him financial advice.  This decision  is just about whether Aviva has treated him fairly when 
responding to his concerns about his funds performance. And how it dealt with his request 
to access his pension.  
In the year to January  2019, Mr A expected his pension fund to grow by around  £6,000  
rather than just under £350. Aviva explained the lower performance  related to various 
external factors  affecting  the stock market such as Brexit, concerns about  the global 
economy and interest rates.  Mr A said Aviva was making excuses for its failures. I 
appreciate the slower  growth will be disappointing for Mr A particularly in view of his health 
and financial  circumstances. But I think investment growth of more than 10% in one year 
would be unrealistic in the present market conditions. I cant see that Aviva has treated Mr A 
unfairly as those factors would affect all its customers, and Ive seen nothing  to suggest any 
errors made by Aviva.
Turning now to the difficulties Mr A has faced when trying to access  his pension savings in 
the way he wants.  I can see Mr A has said unless he receives  money urgently hes at risk of 
losing his home and livelihood.  And if that happens  hed expect Aviva  to cover any relocation 
costs and legal expenses,  which he estimates  at around £80,000. I appreciate  Mr A is 
anxious about his future  situation, but I dont think it would be fair expect  Aviva  to 
compensate him unless  it has done  something  wrong, And I dont think it has.
The decision  about when  and how someone  accesses their pension benefits is an important 
one, which  has significant consequences  for the future. If Mr A put all his pension  savings 
into his property hed risk not having  enough  money to live on in retirement. I can see Mr A 
has strongly held views about personal freedom,  autonomy and government interference. 
But Aviva cannot  bend the rules because of his beliefs.  Which  means Mr A can only take 
25% tax free cash  and Aviva is obliged to deduct  tax at the nominal rate from the balance. 
Mr A can liaise with HMRC about  a rebate  if he feels he shouldnt  pay tax, but Aviva  cant do 
that for him. 
Because pension  savings  tend to be large sums  of money  which people are often unused to 
dealing with, there is potential for fraud  and scams  or people making the wrong decision for 
their circumstances. So companies like Aviva are required to take steps to ensure people  
understand the implications of the decisions they make. Even if taking advice  isnt a 
requirement, firms  will often signpost their customers  towards  financial advice or consulting  a 
free service  such as Pension Wise. They do this to protect  their customers interests, not to 
Ref: DRN67812703annoy them  or deliberately delay the process. I can see Mr A has tried to dictate the way in 
which Aviva  carries out his instructions. But Aviva is entitled to insist Mr A follows its internal 
procedures and its obliged to ensure compliance  with regulatory requirements. 
Aviva is concerned Mr A might be a vulnerable consumer, given his comments  about his 
health and because hes unable to use any kind of electronic communication  including 
phones. So where possible they should be flexible in the way they deal with him. I think 
theyve done this by communicating with Mr A in writing where they would usually  phone. 
And by ensuring  they use simple language to explain  how the forms need to be completed 
and why. Im sorry Mr A found some of Avivas  letters patronising,  but they have a 
responsibility to ensure  he understood the implications of the decisions he was making. And 
to help him understand why they couldnt simply carry out his instructions in the way he 
wanted. 
I appreciate Mr A is anxious  to receive  at least the 25% tax free cash  to alleviate his 
immediate financial situation. And hes now provided his bank  account  details. But Aviva 
cant process Mr As request until they receive the forms back  with his clear instructions 
about his preferred option, completed properly including all the risk warning questions, and 
without any of his hand-written amendments. Im afraid if Mr A wants  to proceed  hell need to 
complete and return the forms as soon as possible to enable  Aviva to process them. 
Taking everything into consideration I dont think Aviva has treated Mr A unfairly  or caused  
any avoidable delays,  so I wont be asking them to pay him any compensation. 
Aviva has said if its errors result in financial  losses for Mr A it would consider these on 
receipt of appropriate  evidence.  As Ive said above,  I cant  see Aviva has made errors or 
caused unnecessary  delays,  but I think this general  approach to dealing with financial loss is 
fair. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6781270