K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester)  mis-sold  
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 when Mr and Mrs M were applying  for 
a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr M if he couldnt  work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs M the information  they needed to decide  whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs M say they were told they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage they wanted, 
and that Lloyds didnt give them a proper choice. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs M and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold.
But I note that the mortgage application they completed included a section about PPI. There 
was a tick against the phrase that said:
I wish to take out C&G Payment Protection  Plus cover and have completed the relevant 
proposal form at the back of this application  form.
Ref: DRN62454512Immediately below there was a phrase  that said:
I do not wish to take out C&G Payment Protection  Plus cover.  C&G  have  explained to me 
the consequences of not having protection to cover my mortgage  commitments should I 
become unemployed or unable to work because of sickness  or accident.
So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve realised from the application form that the PPI was 
optional. And there was nothing else in the application form to suggest  that buying  the PPI 
was a condition  of getting the mortgage. 
Overall, from what Ive seen, I havent  been  able to safely conclude  that Lloyds  didnt make  
Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr M was eligible for the policy given  his circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr M says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to those benefits 
and would do so, it seems  for longer. Mr and Mrs M couldve used Mr Ms employer  
benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve had some use 
for the policy, despite their existing arrangements. 
- Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  main  benefits, such  
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it 
unlikely he and Mrs M needed  better advice or information about the policys  
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs M 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs M took out the policy  knowing they 
would have  to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a 
different decision if better  information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall,  I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs M some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Ref: DRN62454513my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6245451