K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that DTW Associates Limited (Auto Advance) has treated her unfairly  
when she experienced financial difficulties. Shes also complained  about the manner in 
which its tried to collect the debt. She wants the business to accept her proposal for a 
payment arrangement.
background
Miss P tells us that she acquired a vehicle through a hire purchase agreement in October  
2017. She says she later experienced financial difficulties and received a notice of default 
from Auto Advance.  She states that she made a proposal regarding  a repayment 
arrangement by which she would pay £130  per month. Miss P says that Auto Advance 
declined to accept  her offer as it had obtained  information from another agency  which  Ill 
refer to as AS. She says she never  gave Auto Advance  permission to use AS to access  her 
bank account  details and feels that data protection legislation was breached. Miss P explains 
that at one point  her vehicle was repossessed and that in order  to get it back she had to pay 
off the arrears in a lump sum.
Auto Advance told us Miss P had entered into the hire purchase agreement  in early October 
2017. It said the account had fallen into arrears and that Miss P had made offers  to pay but 
these hadnt been fulfilled.  It said that in January 2018 it had issued a notice of default and a 
few days later it had been told by Miss P that she was in financial difficulties. Auto Advance  
explained that it had asked Miss P to complete an income and expenditure form but thered 
been delays with this. So it had obtained information  from AS regarding her bank 
transactions. This had showed her income and expenditure appeared to have remained 
consistent. And it felt thered been  a sufficient balance to meet  the required payments on the 
agreement. It said that when  Miss P supplied details of her income  and expenditure this 
showed shed  enough disposable income  to meet its repayment.  So it wouldnt agree to 
reduce the monthly payments. More recently  Auto Advance advised our investigator  that it 
was willing  - rather than take legal action  against Miss P - to accept £1,808.21 in full and 
final settlement of the agreement. It said this was despite the balance on the agreement  
being £2,950.04 and which it said would likely  rise by a further £400 or more if the matter 
proceeded to court.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Auto 
Advance had acted  improperly in using  the information it had obtained from AS. And he said 
that Miss P had given her consent during the initial application. He felt Auto Advances latest 
offer was very fair and allowed  both parties the chance to move  on.
Following the investigators latest  view Miss P said she disagreed  with it although she didnt 
give any specific reasons.  As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66318042Im sorry  that Miss P experienced financial difficulties and I understand that this can be a 
very stressful issue to deal with. I also accept that its not always  easy to account precisely 
for every item of expenditure which is incurred. So someone can find themselves with 
financial problems even  though at first sight they seem to have  sufficient income.
I think a brief summary of the timeline might help to put the issues  in this complaint in 
context. This shows Miss P fell into arrears soon  after the agreement commenced.  And that 
various promises to clear the arrears werent  met. This led to Auto Advance issuing a default  
notice. Miss P then enquired of Auto Advance how she might avoid the vehicle being 
repossessed and also complained to this service.  That complaint was not upheld  by the 
investigator and the case was closed in May 2018.  Miss Ps vehicle was repossessed  later 
that month.  But upon part payment of the arrears Auto Advance  allowed the vehicle to be 
returned to Miss P. I dont think Auto Advance acted unfairly as the terms and conditions of 
the agreement  permit the vehicle to be repossessed in certain circumstances if payments 
arent met.
In June 2018 Miss P returned an income and expenditure form but was unable to supply 
some documentation.  Rather than delay its consideration of her request for a payment  
arrangement, Auto Advance  obtained  information using another  facility  to which  it had 
access. Whilst its not my role to decide  if data protection  legislation  has been breached  I 
dont think it has in this case. The terms and conditions of the agreement  which  Miss P 
accepted permit Auto Advance to use third parties to source information. Amongst various 
items it permits Auto Advance  or its agents to access her bank statements for a limited 
period. I understand Miss P has since sought  to withdraw her consent.
When Auto Advance obtained these details  it compared it to information it had received from 
Miss P. And as there were apparent discrepancies  it declined  to accept her reduced  offer of 
payment. It said that the information  it had obtained indicated Miss P had disposable income 
in excess of the amount that was required to cover her monthly payments.
When a business  receives a request  from a customer to reduce payments due to financial 
difficulties Id expect  the business to treat the customer  fairly  and make  appropriate 
enquires. I think thats what Auto Advance has done here. And when it received the 
information it was entitled to assess whether or not it should offer a reduced payment 
arrangement. Based  on the information it had obtained I dont think Auto Advance  did 
anything wrong  in declining to offer Miss P such an arrangement.
Im also aware that Miss P has taken  exception to Auto Advance - in declining her request 
for a payment  arrangement - referring  to other  debts  she has which  are unsecured.  She 
appears to think that it was telling her she should not pay these. But I think  its fair and 
reasonable for Auto Advance  to advise that whilst its debt is secured against  Miss Ps 
vehicle, some other debts  she has are unsecured.  And I cant  see where it said she 
shouldnt pay these  other debts - rather it pointed out that its (secured)  debt should take 
priority. As the purpose of a secured  debt is to give the creditor  priority over other non -
secured creditors I cant see that Auto Advance was doing anything  wrong  in referring  to 
this.
In summary,  I dont think Auto Advance has acted unfairly. Its responded to Miss Ps 
request for a payment  arrangement by seeking to obtain details  on which  a decision could 
properly be made. It was entitled  to use an additional facility to which  it had access  in order  
to expedite the processing  of Miss Ps claim.  And having acquired those details its made a 
decision which I think is consistent  with the information it obtained.
Ref: DRN66318043Latterly its made what I consider to be a generous  offer to try and help Miss P and resolve 
this complaint. The terms of the offer are not something Id have been minded  to suggest - 
as I dont think Auto Advance has done  anything wrong. So I shant be asking Auto Advance  
to do anything else. If Miss P wishes to accept Auto Advances offer of settlement she 
should now take that up with them directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6631804