K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that his annuity payments are lower  than what he had agreed  to when he 
took his annuity out with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited
background
I set out the background  to Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decisions.  Ill summarise it 
again here.
In 2017, Mr H discussed the purchase  of an annuity  with L&G. He was told that guaranteed 
annuity rates  (GAR)  typically offer a return of around 9- 10%, and that if he was to use his 
entire fund to purchase an annuity, he would be entitled to a monthly income  of £535 before 
tax. 
Mr H subsequently  received a quotation stating that if he wishes to proceed,  he will receive  a 
tax-free cash amount  of £21,000 as well as £535  on a monthly basis.  Mr H returned  the 
application to purchase the annuity  
In February 2018,  Mr H received his tax-free cash payment and L&G issued a final quotation 
and acceptance  form to him. The quotation  confirmed that following the payment of tax-free 
cash, he would receive  a monthly income  of £404,  which would be subject to tax. Mr H 
accepted the quotation  and the monthly  income payments commenced.  
Mr H complained to L&G after learning that his monthly income  payments  were around £323 
after tax. He stated  that he had been  under the impression that the £404 was the amount he 
was going to receive after tax based on a gross  amount of £535. He was also unhappy that 
he had not received the GAR 9- 10% that had been quoted. 
L&G replied  stating that there had been an error in the correspondence he had received 
which stated that he could get £535  on a monthly basis,  as well a tax-free  cash  amount of 
£21,000. As a result  of the error,  it offered him a payment of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and to reverse the annuity  purchase in order  to provide him a higher  
monthly income with no tax-free cash. It also stated  that it never guaranteed a GAR of 9- 
10%.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He noted 
that L&G had provided incorrect information to Mr H, but also that this could  have reasonably 
been identified  by him as it did not correspond with the quotation he had over the telephone. 
In addition, he considered that Mr H had subsequently received correct  information before 
finalising the annuity purchase. In regards to the comments  around  a GAR providing around  
9-10%, he confirmed that this was at no point guaranteed and was stated in the context of 
illustrative purposes only. 
Mr H didnt agree. Amongst a number  of points, he stated that L&Gs error was unacceptable  
and the compensation offered does not make  up for the financial losses he has suffered 
because of the incorrect information  he had received. 
Ref: DRN62376532In my provisional findings I considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. . Ive also taken into 
account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry  practice at the time.
I said at the outset, I think it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Instead, this service looks to resolve individual  complaints between  a 
consumer and a business. Should  we decide  that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible,  in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Having listened  to the initial telephone conversation between Mr H and L&G, I find the 
conversation detailed very clearly the options  available to Mr H and he in turn was very clear 
about the options he wished to pursue with regard to his pensions.  
Mr H confirmed he wanted  quotations for a pension annuity for the total value of the three 
pension plans. He asked for quotations  on both a joint and single life basis.  He was clear  he 
didnt wish to receive a tax- free lump sum. He wanted the annuity to be provided without a 
guarantee and on a level basis. His decisions were  further confirmed after the L&G 
representative asked  him a number of confirmatory questions  to check his understanding of 
the options he was selecting. Mr H also confirmed  he hadnt sought any financial advice nor 
had he approached Pension Wise, the governments free guidance service,  for any 
information. 
During this conversation,  there were  several  discussions between  both parties  around  the 
criteria that applied to the GAR. This included  when and how it came  into effect and the rate 
that it offered.  The representative referred to rates that could typically  be around 9-10% but 
he also says the quote is only guaranteed for 35 days from the date of the conversation. This 
is because until the pension is realised there are a number of unknown elements. For 
example, the exact fund value and the GAR that will apply  to the pension policies. 
L&G then sent the retirement  annuity quotation  in December 2017. It showed a tax-free cash 
payment of £20,954.14 and an annuity  purchase amount of £62,862.44. It then gave a 
pension payable in the first year of £6428.28 or £535.69 monthly.  This included  a 50% 
spouse pension.  Unfortunately,  this contained  a significant error. An amount of tax-free cash  
was quoted, which Mr H hadnt requested, but the annuity payment wasnt adjusted  to reflect 
a value after the tax-free cash had been taken.
I can understand from Mr Hs point of view,  following  a phone  call where  he thought the GAR 
may typically be around 9-10%, why the quotation looked  in keeping with the information  he 
had been given on the telephone. But, the subsequent final quotation Mr H received showed 
the annual payment to be £4851.24  with a monthly  payment of £404.27. Ive listened  to the 
telephone call after Mr H received this quotation.  He says hes unhappy he only had 7 days  
to respond and as he was on holiday  he wasnt able to do so, but goes on to say hes not 
complaining about the quote which is fine but about the option of responding which he feels 
was limited and unfair. I appreciate Mr H later said he thought the quote was net of tax and 
thats why he accepted  it but it was also incumbent on Mr H to check the information 
carefully and he had the opportunity when  the representative checked to see if the quotation  
was correct to raise any concerns. I sympathise with Mr Hs view that as the amount was 
significantly lower than the original quote L&G could have pointed  that out to him.
Ref: DRN62376533There is no doubt that the conversation  Mr H had with L&G was followed up with a 
misleading and factually incorrect document, which led to Mr H accepting the tax-free cash 
and accepting the annuity payment. 
Ive considered Mr Hs submissions regarding what he thought was a guaranteed  9-10% 
payable on this policy and if it wasnt he would have shopped around  with other providers to 
see if he could get a better rate. On balance, Im persuaded the L& G representative was 
trying to illustrate the benefit of the GAR compared to the current annuity rates.  He 
described the rates as typical rather than guaranteed and explained the rates  could change. 
In order to obtain the GAR Mr H also had to meet certain criteria, this meant to obtain the 
GAR he would  need to take his pension as an annuity from L&G.  
As I said earlier,  the role of this service is to establish if an error  has occurred and to correct  
it. Theres no dispute that L&G have made errors  so the question  now is what the business 
should do to put things  right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
L&G have offered to reverse  Mr Hs current annuity plan and purchase one using the full 
fund value at the time, which is what was initially agreed over the telephone. Im persuaded 
in doing so, this will put Mr H back in the position  he would have been in. That is to say, he 
will have a joint life annuity on a level basis with no guaranteed period providing  £535.69  on 
a monthly basis. This will be dependent on Mr H returning the tax-free  cash lump sum.
But, I sympathise with Mr H, this wasnt the experience he should  have received  and I can 
understand that this has caused him a great deal of trouble  and upset. I also agree he has 
received lower monthly payments  than were originally quoted and so I intend to increase the 
redress accordingly. 
Im persuaded L&G should also pay the difference between the original quoted  amount  and 
the payments  they made until the annuity is reversed along with 8% simple interest on the 
difference.
Ref: DRN62376534In my provisional decision,  I said I intended to uphold this complaint and ask Legal  and 
General Assurance  Society Limited to:
1.Reverse the annuity as offered, subject to the return  of the tax-free  cash lump sum 
and pay Mr H the original  quoted annuity  payment  of £6428.28(annually) or £535.69 
(monthly).
2.Calculate the difference in the payments made to date and what  they should  have 
been as in point 1 above. Pay the difference to Mr H plus 8% simple interest.
3.Pay Mr H £300 for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused.
I invited Mr H, Legal and General  Assurance Society  Limited  to make any further  comments  
they would  wish me to take into consideration.
Legal and General had no further  comments to make. Mr H accepted my provisional 
decision but explained his circumstances had changed  and he was no longer in a position to 
return the tax-free lump  sum.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice. Having done so, I am upholding this 
complaint but as Mr Hs circumstances  have now changed, I have revisited  the award for 
redress.
Mr Hs position has always been that he didnt want the tax free cash  and as the monthly 
payment was lower  after doing so he wanted to return the lump  sum in favour of a higher 
monthly annuity payment.
The usual remedy for is to try to put the customer in the same position as if the error  hadnt 
occurred. As there is no dispute L&G have made errors here, the only way to achieve that 
would be for Mr H to return the tax-free  lump sum and L&G provide a new annuity  without a 
tax-free lump sum but providing the higher monthly payment Mr H was seeking.
As Mr H no longer wishes to return the lump sum, following his change  in circumstances, Im  
cant ask L&G to reverse the annuity  nor pay any difference in the payments. As Mr H now 
wants to retain the lump  sum, the monthly  payments are correct.
I appreciate this matter  has been frustrating for Mr H and caused him trouble and upset and 
so Im awarding him £300  in recognition  of this.
Ref: DRN62376535my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given Im upholding this complaint and I direct Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  to:
Pay Mr H £300 for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6237653