K820x#14Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his travel insurance  
claim and with the settlement he received. 
Background
Mr M has a policy of travel insurance through  an account. Mr M, his wife and young daughter 
were due to fly home from abroad  on 1 January 2019. Mr Ms daughter became ill and was 
admitted to hospital  as a result of vomiting and diarrhoea the day before they were  due to 
return. Mr Ms daughter  was kept in hospital  and discharged the following day, but by then 
Mr M and his family had missed their planned flight  home. After  theyd missed the original 
flight Mr M contacted UKIs  assistance company. Mr M arranged alternative flights home  for 
his family  and claimed for the cost on his return home. UKI paid for return  flights for Mr Ms 
daughter and one adult.  
Mr M is unhappy  with the conflicting advice he says UKI gave  about  which  flights it would 
cover, with the delay in settlement and the service provided by UKI. He says he was initially  
told all three  return flights  were  covered,  then that UKI would  pay the cost of two adult flights 
and then that it would pay for the cost of return flights for one adult and one child.  
UKI said its policy provided for additional  travel costs for Mr Ms daughter  and one adult, and 
it couldnt find any evidence Mr M was told all flights would  be covered. But UKI accepted a 
number of Mr Ms calls to their claims department werent returned and they didnt always  
deal with Mr Ms case as quickly as they could. In recognition of these points UKI paid Mr M 
£100 compensation, which he accepted.
As Mr M remained  unhappy with the settlement he brought his complaint to this service. The 
investigator didnt  uphold it. He said UKI acted in accordance  with the policy  terms but had 
set an expectation  about settlement Mr M relied on and caused unnecessary  delay. The 
investigator concluded the compensation  paid to Mr M was reasonable.
Mr M didnt  accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He said UKI told him in a call in February 2019 theyd pay for two adult flights 
back to the UK. He felt UKI had misled him.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not asking UKI to do 
anything more. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy provides cover for emergency medical  expenses.  In addition, his policy covers, 
additional  travel expenses needed to return you to the UK (repatriation) on the advice of 
our medical adviser.
And, 
Up to £2,000  per insured person  towards the cost of a friend  or relative,  resident in the UK 
to be brought  to, remain with or escort you back to the UK on advice of our medical 
adviser.
Ref: DRN66063432I believe the policy wording is clear that UKI will only pay additional expenses for the person 
suffering the medical emergency (Mr Ms daughter) and one relative or friend. Other  policies 
of travel insurance Ive seen include similar wording. What I need  to consider is whether 
Mr M was led to believe UKI would pay additional travel costs  for all three members of the 
family or for two adults  and, if he was, whether hes suffered a financial loss as a result.  
Mr M first called the assistance company after he and his family had missed their flight  
home. I understand  this was because Mr M and his wife were with their daughter who was in 
hospital, but it meant UKI didnt  have  the opportunity to explain to Mr M that they would only 
pay for one parent to stay with their daughter before the planned return  flight. 
When Mr M first called the assistance  company he was told that only one person was 
covered to stay with his daughter until she was well enough  to return. Mr M said his wife 
couldnt travel without him in case she became unwell and needed assistance. Later that day 
Mr M sent an email to the assistance  company. In it he said, 
I am self employed and for minimal  business impact I am planning  to fly ASAP  (as soon as 
the child recovers).
This indicates to me that even after Mr M had been told UKI would only cover one parents 
additional costs  he wanted to stay with his wife and child. Whilst I can fully appreciate why 
Mr M wanted to be with his family, I cant say UKI have done  anything wrong in not paying 
for flights for Mr M and his wife to return home. The fact that all family members  were 
covered by the same policy doesnt  mean UKI cant reasonably apply the terms of the policy. 
I cant see Mr M was told UKI would meet the cost of two adult return flights. I think  initially 
UKI looked at dividing  the total cost of the return flights by three, but later found Mr Ms 
daughters flight cost less so adjusted the settlement figure. Whilst I think  UKI could have 
been clearer, I dont  consider Mr M has lost out as a result.  I say this because at the time Mr 
M says he was given misleading advice hed already incurred the cost of the flights  and so 
didnt do anything differently as a result of the advice.
UKI have  accepted they didnt provide as good a service as they could and have 
compensated Mr M. I think UKI have acted reasonably  in doing so and note Mr M has 
accepted the compensation,  so Im not asking them to do anything more.
I believe UKI have complied with the terms of Mr Ms policy  and have acted fairly and 
reasonably in paying the cost of Mr Ms daughters  flight and one adult flight. 
My final decision
Noting that U K Insurance Limited have already paid Mr M £100  compensation my decision 
is that Im not asking  them to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6606343