K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance  Limited dealt with their home  
insurance claim for water damage following a leak in their home.
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs S returned  from holiday to find that a pipe had burst causing a 
substantial escape  of water. They were able to stay elsewhere in a holiday home. Aviva 
accepted the claim and agreed to fund the alternative accommodation  (AA). 
Aviva appointed loss adjusters who arranged the drying out and removal  of the damaged  
contents. Drying out was essentially completed by June 2018, save for a part of the kitchen. 
Repairs went ahead for the rest of the home. Drying out of the kitchen was completed by 
August 2018.  A certificate of practical  completion  for the repairs  was issued in early October 
2018 and Mr and Mrs S moved back home.  However there remained concerns about a 
further damp patch  in the hallway.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with the quality of the work, raising  various snagging issues  and 
issues with repairs not done properly. Some of the issues  were  dealt with  for the remainder 
Aviva offered and Mr and Mrs S accepted a cash settlement. This included  repairs and a 
further payment  for electrical  items  deemed to be beyond economic repair.  Mr and Mrs S 
had a further issue with a sideboard which had been  returned damaged.  After  some 
argument Aviva agreed to pay for its repair, which was done  satisfactorily.
In November 2018 another leak was discovered, from the boiler. It was agreed initially that it 
would be serviced  but after reviewing it, Aviva  agreed to replace the boiler. Avivas drying 
company assessed  that further drying  out would  be needed. This wasnt able to start until 
January 2019  as issues concerning the positioning  of a damp proof course  had to be 
resolved. The further drying out was completed  by early February 2019. Mr and Mrs S were  
in AA for a part of the time but couldnt book accommodation for the time the repairs  were  
being carried out. So they stayed  in the property  while the kitchen floor was re-laid. They 
were paid a disturbance allowance  during this time.  The work was essentially completed  by 
the end of February 2019.
In the meantime Mr and Mrs S had an issue with two sofas which  they said had been  
damaged by water. The loss adjusters said they hadnt and obtained a report  from a furniture 
expert. Eventually the matter was reconsidered directly  by Aviva who agreed to pay the cost 
of replacing the sofas.
Aviva paid compensation of £100 for the problems with the sideboard,  which Mr and Mrs S 
accepted. Having reviewed the matter Aviva accepted  that there were failings. In recognition 
of its failings, and by means of apology for the inconvenience, delays and lack of 
management on the claim, it proposed  to award £1,500. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this. 
When Mr and Mrs S raised their complaints with this service there were two outstanding  
issues  the sofas  and the dates on the drying certificate. These  matters  have  since been 
resolved. Our investigator further said that the compensation payment offered by Aviva was 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S responded that they werent  just concerned  with the two outstanding matters 
but with the way that the whole claim was dealt with, and expected a full investigation of this. 
Ref: DRN69131442They were  also concerned that there  were a number of outstanding  issues, and that further  
issues might  arise.  On review, our investigator  determined that they had one new issue,  
concerning the flooring, which he said they should report  to Aviva as a new complaint.  
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss comprehensive notes and documents  supplied  to us have been  very helpful 
in assessing this matter. I can assure  them that Ive fully considered  all the evidence  
supplied by them and by Aviva. Our role is as an alternative resolution service - we look to 
resolve disputes between the parties informally. I wont set out every point of complaint in 
this decision. Rather  I will summarise the issues and set out my overall  conclusion.
In its final response Aviva  set out the following concerns:
1 The time taken to complete the works
2 Lack of communication throughout  the duration  of the claim
3 Lack of ownership during the period of the claim
4 Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at the handling  of the claim by its adjusters
It agreed that: 
1 On reviewing file, there had been considerable delays in completing the works.
2 There had been a breakdown in the communications during the period of the claim
and this has also resulted in a lack of ownership.
3 It could fully understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustrations during the claims process.
There were issues with communications during  the matter, and Mr and Mrs S had to make 
many telephone calls to try to sort matters  out. Having said that, the first phase of the repairs 
took from March until early October  to be completed. Had it not been for the further issues  
which then arose, I would say that for a major  escape of water  such as this (where some 
ceilings came down) a six to seven month  period for completing drying  out and repairs is 
reasonable. That said, I think Mr and Mrs S clearly  had a lot of difficulties finding out what  
was happening,  when contractors were attending  etc. I think  the ownership of the claim 
improved from June  2018 when the loss adjusters surveying services  took over.
Its difficult to determine  if the contractors  or loss adjusters  had any responsibility for the 
second leak. But it seems  that the drying out was completed. We look at not just where 
things went wrong but how they were put right. And Aviva did put the matter right by 
accepting the second leak as all part of the same claim, replacing the boiler  and drying out 
and re-laying the kitchen floor. I appreciate that this took some  time and meant  Mr and Mrs S 
had to move  out again and for part of that time, had to stay in their home  during  the further 
works.
Mr and Mrs S had to stand their ground on two issues.  Firstly the sideboard,  which the 
contractors insisted was damaged before it was taken away.  After reviewing photos Aviva 
agreed to a pay for its repair. Mr and Mrs S accepted a £100  compensation payment for this 
and were satisfied with the repair.  And secondly  the sofas which the loss adjusters insisted 
werent damaged,  although the expert report said there was evidence the fabric had been 
Ref: DRN69131443stretched by being  in damp  conditions.  Aviva had to step in to make  the full payment. I can 
understand the frustration caused by this but I do take into account that Aviva did resolve the 
issues.
Mr and Mrs S had substantial concerns with the quality of some of the repairs,  which went 
beyond just snagging. I wont go into detail here, but a payment was made including  
wallpapering in four rooms, cleaning, sockets / switches, lagging, insulation,  joinery  work, 
some plastering and wall insulation. To resolve all the work Aviva agreed  a payment of 
nearly £6,000,  with Mr and Mrs S. So I can understand their upset at all the issues which 
needed resolving, but again I would comment that an acceptable  resolution  was reached.
Mr and Mrs S are concerned  that their home will be unsaleable.  Its unfortunate that with this 
sort of claim substantial work does have to be done which might have to be declared to any 
prospective purchaser. But Aviva isnt responsible  for the claim arising. I know  there were 
issues concerning  further  repairs.  But as Ive said Mr and Mrs S received  a cash  settlement  
for this, which should enable  them to ensure  that any further repairs are done properly.
I cant see that there are any outstanding issues. I should clarify that any award  of 
compensation is for what happened rather than what might happen. I believe Mr and Mrs S 
have raised further  issues with the flooring which they have reported to Aviva.  That matter 
has to be resolved by Aviva, but if Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with that, they can refer the 
matter back to this service
Taking all the above matters into account and bearing in mind  the actions  taken by Aviva 
and its loss adjusters  to resolve the situation,  I think a payment of £1,500  compensation is a 
fair and reasonable way to resolve  the complaints.  It is in line with the award I would have 
made, had it not already been  offered. Its also in line with awards  we have  made in similar  
cases. I note that Mr and Mrs S havent accepted the offer. If they want  to accept it, they 
should get in touch  with Aviva directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 October  2020.
Ray Lawley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6913144