K821x#15Since I issued my provisional  decision the firm has changed its name to Quilter  Financial 
Services Ltd.  As I referred to the firm as Intrinsic in the provisional decision I have continued 
to do so in this decision. 
complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about advice that he has said he received to switch  his personal pension  
to a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider. The transfer was 
recommended in order to allow an investment in a product offered by Sustainable Growth  
Group (SGG).  The complaint is that the advice  was unsuitable as the eventual investment 
represented a greater level of investment risk than Mr B was prepared to accept.
Mr B has said the advice was given  by the ER Network an appointed representative (AR) of 
Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd.  
background
Mr B met with the adviser who was an employee  of the ER Network.  The adviser  also had 
an unregulated  business, Vita Investment Planning (VIP).
Whether advice was provided is in dispute but, after the meeting, a SIPP application was 
completed and Mr Bs personal pension was switched to a SIPP.   An investment was made 
in a SGG  product shortly  after.  
The SGG investment  was placed  into administration in early 2012, following allegations of 
fraud. This prompted  Mr B to complain  about  the suitability of the advice he received.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 June  2019.   In this I said the 
following: 
I will deal with our jurisdiction in three  steps:
What is Mr Bs complaint
What regulated activities does his complaint  involve
Is Intrinsic  responsible for the activities of its AR
Mr Bs complaint is that he was advised to switch a personal pension  to a SIPP for the 
express purpose of investing in a SGG product.
Both a personal pension  and a SIPP are specified investments as per article 82 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order 2001 (RAO).   Advice  to switch from a personal  pension to a SIPP  
would be regulated investment advice as per article 53 of the RAO.  In addition  to the 
alleged advice the adviser was involved in the pension switch and, based on what Mr B has 
said, carried out the regulated activity of arranging deals in investments (article 25 of the 
RAO).
It is in dispute whether  Mr B was dealing with the ER Network or the advisers unregulated 
business VIP.  I will therefore  make various  findings about what actually happened before 
going on to consider whether Intrinsic  is responsible.  
The advisers version of events
Ref: DRN68196492The adviser has provided the following  comments.   The comments were made in response 
to a series of questions  asked by the adjudicator.
The adjudicator asked the adviser  to explain the various references  to the ER Network on 
different forms.  The advisers  answer was:  
At the time I was unsure how a non  regulated  application should be completed and also I 
was told that in order for a SIPP provider to speak to me I would have to mention  a regulated  
adviser name. Upon  checking with Berkeley Burke they confirmed we had received the 
incorrect information and new documents were issued. 
After the confirmation from Berkeley Burke the welcome letter was amended correctly and I 
attach a copy that was given  to me by Mrs B that she received clearly stating that an 
application from your non-regulated  agentat  Vita.
(Mrs B made  the same  investments as Mr B and at the same time)
The adviser has also confirmed that he approached personal pension providers under the 
guise of the ER Network  because pension  providers  would not release information  to a 
non regulated firm.  Also  when the applications were  originally submitted to Berkeley  Burke 
they were also submitted  with ER Network noted as the adviser  although after the event 
this was changed.
The adviser also said:
I did help clients complete their SIPP application  forms  and we were at the time told to put 
as the designated IFA ER Network as it would mean that Berkeley Burke would speak to us 
if a client had a question etc. It was administrative  only. Clients  are also aware that ER 
Network is not an IFA but an appointed representative of Intrinsic using the restrictive advice 
route. As stated previously we received incorrect information regarding this from Berkeley 
Burke.
As part of the application  process  for the SGG  product  on 28 September 2008 Mr B signed 
terms of business  for VIP.  These  said the following:
VIP is an independent company dedicated  to introducing  Individuals  and businesses to a 
range of products and services  from different  providers. VIP is an agent of TMJG whose role 
is to act as conduit  between  the product providers and VIP. TMJG  and VIP are not providers 
of any products or services and can offer no advice, assurance,  or recommendation in 
relation to any product or service.
(TMJG is The Marcus James Group)
VIP solely  offers a non-advisory service which provides customers with information to assist 
them in selecting  products  they feel are most appropriate for their needs.  VIP does not 
attempt to offer you any financial advice either about the product  itself or the suitability of the 
product for your particular financial and other circumstances. All products and services are 
offered free from financial  advice and are not regulated by the Financial Services Authority  
(FSA), neither are they considered to be unregulated collective  investment  schemes.  
Nothing in any of the documentation/information  provided to you shall be deemed
to constitute advice or a recommendation to purchase a particular product or service. It is 
important that you seek independent financial advice, especially if you are in any doubt as to 
Ref: DRN68196493the suitability of the product or service. Investments into products purchased through VIP are 
not covered by the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme.
VIP will receive  commission  from TMJG when you use one of their provider's  products or 
services.
The adviser has also pointed out that all of the complaints brought  to this service are being  
made with the assistance of the same solicitor.  He  suggested this raised the possibility of 
responses being coordinated.    
Mr Bs version of events is as follows:
We were advised by [the adviser] of ER Networks about moving  our pension scheme into a 
SIPP scheme by investing  in the Sustainable Growth  Group.  [the adviser] also advised us 
that this was not a high risk investment and it would be far more beneficial  to myself and my 
wife than keeping  our existing pension plans.
We were both under the impression we were  being advised by [the adviser] of ER Networks.
At no time during our pension transfer  were we aware that [the adviser] was working on his 
own behalf for his own unregulated company Vita Investment Planning.  We have used ER 
Network for over 10 years  for financial advice and always dealt with [the adviser].
We would  like to make the point clear  we were coached in completing all documents 
regarding our investments  by [the adviser].
Myself and my wife were at a mortgage  consultation  with [the adviser] after which  he brought  
the subject of switching our pension plans.
[The adviser] encouraged us to become involved in re-investing  our pension schemes into a 
SIPP fund and we took his advice.  Due to our inexperience in investments if [the adviser] 
had never  approached us would never have been involved in this type of pension fund.
Mr Bs recollections are clearly  at odds with the VIP terms of business that he signed.
My conclusions from the above
Based on what the adviser has said I am satisfied that his actions in bringing about  the 
switch of the personal pension to the SIPP  amounted  to the regulated activity of bringing 
about deals in investments as per article  25(2) of the RAO.  He  says that he liaised with the 
ceding schemes, obtained transfer  values, arranged the transfer  from the ceding scheme, 
helped fill out the forms and submitted the applications to the SIPP operator.
The two regulated entities involved (the ceding  scheme and the SIPP  operator) considered  
at the time - they were  dealing with the ER Network,  an AR of Intrinsic.  I am therefore 
satisfied that this regulated activity was carried out by the ER Network.
Whether regulated  investment advice was given and if so which  entity gave it is less clear  
cut.  The  adviser has said that he did not receive any payment either from Berkley  Burke  or 
SGG.  
Ref: DRN68196494The adviser spent  considerable time and energy  in bringing about the significant number of 
transfers, that he should do this for no financial benefit is, in my view,  implausible.  The  
adviser was also involved  with The Marcus James Group.  This is made clear in the Vita 
Investment Planning  terms  of business  which said the following about commission:
VIP will receive  commission  from TMJG (The Marcus James Group)  when  you use one of 
their providers products  or services. 
The VIP terms of business also makes clear  the advisers understanding of the SGG 
products.  The terms said:
All products and services  are offered free from financial advice and are not regulated by the 
Financial Services Authority neither are they considered to be unregulated collective 
investment schemes.     
It therefore seems more likely than not that the adviser was paid by TMFG  for his role in the 
investment Mr B made.
There is documentary evidence (the VIP terms of business) that no advice was given in 
respect of the SGG products and that this investment came about  as a result  of the actions 
of VIP.
There is no contemporaneous  documentary evidence  of the involvement of VIP in the 
pension switch.  I dont  think the ARs attempt to retrospectively change the firm involved in 
the switch from the ER Network to VIP is valid.  The parties involved in the pension switch,  
the ceding scheme, the SIPP operator and Mr B, all thought, at the time, they were dealing 
with the ER Network  in respect  of the pension  switch.
It is clear from the VIP terms of business that it was the understanding of the adviser that the 
SGG product, not being a CIS, was not an investment.   It would have been the advisers 
understanding that any advice, if given, or arranging of the purchase would not have been a 
regulated activity and could  legitimately  have been carried out by VIP.
Mr B had no funds available to invest,  other  than his SIPP.   In addition  it was necessary for 
Mr B to decide to switch  to the Berkeley  Burke SIPP to enable the SGG investment to go 
ahead.    
The FCAs perimeter guidance manual section 8.28 provides commentary helpful in deciding  
whether regulated advice has been  given - as opposed to just information.
In the FCA's view,  advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser.  In effect, 
it is a recommendation  as to a course of action. Information, on the other hand, involves 
statements of fact or figures.
Regulated advice  includes any communication  with the customer  which,  in the particular 
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information  and is objectively  
likely to influence the customers decision whether  or not to buy or sell.
An explicit  recommendation to buy or sell is likely to be advice. However, something falling 
short of an explicit recommendation can be advice too. Any significant element of evaluation, 
value judgment  or persuasion is likely to mean that advice is being given.
Ref: DRN68196495A person can give advice  without saying (or implying)  categorically that the customer should 
invest. The adviser does not have to offer a definitive recommendation as to whether the 
customer should go ahead.
For example, saying the following can still be advice:
this investment is a very good  buy but it is your decision whether or not to buy; or
this investment is a very good  buy but I am going to leave it to you to decide  because I dont 
know your up-to-date financial position.
In the FCA's opinion,  however, such information  may take on the nature of advice if the 
circumstances in which it is provided give it the force of a recommendation. For example:
a person may provide  information on a selected, rather than balanced,  basis  which  would 
tend to influence  the decision of the recipient.
This service has dealt with a number of complaints which are essentially identical to Mr Bs 
complaint.  After meeting the adviser a number  of investors carried  out a series of 
transactions  the switch of a personal pension to a Berkeley Burke SIPP and a subsequent 
investment in a SGG product.  All of the investors were inexperienced  investors with 
relatively modest pension  pots.  All  of the consumers were existing clients of the ER 
Network.
Whilst each case is decided on its own particular facts, I think  the fact that a number of 
investors carried out a series of identical transactions increases the probability  that these 
were advised transactions.   
The ceding  schemes were all well known and established companies.  At that time SIPPs 
were relatively new and not a product that most investors were  aware  of.  Within this 
relatively specialised area Berkeley Burke was not a major operator.  Similarly the SGG 
product was a niche,  unusual product which would be unknown  to typical  retail  investors.  
Mr B was not an experienced investor and apart from his personal pension  had no other 
investments.  It seems  unlikely  that such an investor  would undertake  such a transaction  
without advice or some form of encouragement from the adviser.   
Taking into account all of the above I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr B was 
advised to switch his personal  pension to a SIPP for the purpose of investing in the SGG 
product.  The adviser would only be paid if Mr B made the SGG  investment  which clearly 
incentivised the AR to encourage  Mr B to go ahead with the pension switch  and the SGG 
investment.  Given the complexity of the transaction and the inexperience of Mr B it seems  
unlikely that he would  have gone ahead with the pension switch  without  some  form of 
persuasion or encouragement from the adviser.   As the above  extracts  from PERG  make 
clear this would  amount  to advice.  I also consider it unlikely that the mere provision of 
information would have persuaded Mr B to switch his personal pension  to the SIPP  so he 
could invest in SGG products.  The pension fund represented the entirety of Mr Bs pension  
provision.  It was clearly  very important to Mr B and his retirement planning.  In my view this 
further increases  the likelihood that Mr B would not have acted without advice.     
For the reasons  given  above my provisional conclusion is that Mr B was advised  to switch 
his personal pension to a SIPP.  It is possible  that advice was also given on the SGG 
product.  However, I dont  think ultimately it makes  a difference  to the outcome of this 
Ref: DRN68196496complaint whether the SGG advice was given  or not - so I make  no finding on this point.  I 
am satisfied  that when  advising Mr B to make  the pension switch  the AR knew that the 
intended investment  to be held in the SIPP  was the SGG product.  
Did the ER Network  of VIP give this advice?
There is some evidence  that at least for the SGG product no advice  was given by the ER 
Network.  Mr B signed  the VIP terms of business.  These make clear that the investment in 
the SGG  product had been arranged by VIP and advice had not been given 
The evidence available in respect of the pension switch clearly  indicates the involvement of 
the ER Network.  The contemporaneous documentary evidence shows the ER Network 
arranged the switch from the personal  pension to the SIPP.  As explained earlier, I dont 
think the ARs later attempt to retrospectively  change the firm involved from the ER Network 
to VIP to be valid.  At the time the ceding pension scheme and the SIPP  considered that the 
ER Network was arranging the transaction.  The AR said that, at the time, he thought he had 
to arrange the pension  switch via The ER Network.   Therefore the ceding  scheme,  the SIPP 
and the AR himself,  at the time,  all thought the pension switch  was arranged  by The ER 
Network. 
I accept that there is no documentary evidence of any advice given by the ER Network.  
However, Mr B says he was advised to switch his pension  by the AR and the ARs  statement 
is silent on this point.    
Mr B approached the AR for advice about his mortgage.  It was at a meeting to discuss his 
mortgage that the idea of the pension switch and the SGG investment was discussed.  An 
investor who in the course of a meeting to discuss a regulated mortgage contract goes on to 
discuss other regulated  investments (a SIPP and a personal pension) would in the absence  
of any indication to the contrary reasonably consider he was still talking to his regulated 
financial adviser.  There is evidence  that the adviser made a distinction between  his 
regulated business and what  he considered non regulated business  the VIP terms of 
business.  However, I have seen  no evidence that any indication was given to Mr B that in 
relation to the personal pension and the SIPP he wasnt dealing with his regulated financial 
adviser (the ER Network).  
For the reasons  set out above my provisional conclusion  is that Mr B was advised to switch  
his personal pension to the Berkeley Burke SIPP and that this advice was given by the AR.  
The adviser would have known that the purpose  of the switch was to enable an investment 
in the SGG product.   
Is Intrinsic responsible for the advice to switch from the personal pension to a SIPP 
given by the AR?
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Ref: DRN68196497Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for Positive 
Solutions (for some purposes) was held to be engaging in a recognisably  independent 
business of his own   a property investment scheme.    
Vita Investment  Planning  might be a recognisably independent business in respect of the 
SGG advice.  However, there is nothing to connect  this business to the pension  switch 
advice.  As  set out above, my conclusion is that this advice  was given by the ER Network.
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
I note the following comments made  by the courts:
Page v Champion  Financial Management Limited  [2014] EWHC 1778, Mr Simon  Picken QC 
sitting as a Deputy  Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing before me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue that 
Section 39(3)  gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal) sense. This was a sensible 
concession since it is clear  that Section 39(3)  does  not entail the imposition of vicarious  
liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional Liability (7th Ed) at 
paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114,  HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely  separate statutory liability and has nothing  to do, on 
the face of it, with the law of agency.  It does not require an agency to be proved before it can 
be activated
In that case the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship  
between the principal and the appointed  representative depending on the facts  of the case.   
However for present purposes it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope 
of the appointed representative status rather than common  law agency principles. 
As mentioned above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
Ref: DRN68196498"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal (Intrinsic) is required to accept responsibly  for that business  
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear  that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
generic business of a prescribed prescription.  I will first deal with the meaning prescribed 
business and before dealing with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in May 2011.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  
Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
Ref: DRN68196499So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 RAO).  It does not 
mean advising Mr B on a particular investment. 
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised to carry out the above regulated activities  in this 
case.
What was the prescribed business Intrinsic  accepted responsibility  for in this case?
The s. 39 Agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER Network expressly incorporated the 
compliance manual.  The agreement  itself said:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined  as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement
The Compliance Manual was more  helpful on this point.  It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, Members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted The ER Network to carry on was arranging  
deals, advising on investments (and mortgages  but that is not relevant here)  and agreeing to 
arrange deals  and advise on investments.   Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for that business 
as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
So in this case Intrinsic  did authorise The ER Network to advise on investments, arrange 
deals in investments  and agree to do both.  This was the (relevant) prescribed business 
Intrinsic authorised The ER Network to carry on and agreed to accept responsibility for. 
Ref: DRN681964910But as I have said above, Intrinsic says it put limits on the business it accepts responsibly 
for.  In  effect it says it authorises investment advice  but only if certain conditions  are met, 
such as the adviser  passing a relevant exam, or the investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk,  HHJ Waksman said the following  (where  D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge 
said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.  
Then the judge  said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) 
agreed with the above.  In that case the network  principal  had argued  that it was not 
Ref: DRN681964911responsible for advice  to invest in an investment in which  it did not authorise the appointed 
representative to deal.  The judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenets behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as having  such  
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it follows  that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties  only.  Does 
that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way?  The  answer to that question  is no 
because of the words  part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above  really considered this point.  But  it was dealt with 
in the most recent case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC 2834.  In 
that case the judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
ARs actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
Ref: DRN681964912because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Grieg in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingrams evidence  was that he knew  that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes  a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority.   And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely connected to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.   
my view  about  the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement in this case:
advice restricted to approved  products
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  includes  the following:
2.1 Intrinsics Scope  of Permission
Intrinsic is authorised by the FSA to carry out certain activities.   This is referred  to as Part IV 
permission.  All regulated firms have to obtain a permission, but the scope of their particular  
permission may include one of several regulated activities depending  on the business of the 
firm.  
The regulated activities for which Intrinsic has approval is as follows:
a)Arranging (brining about) deals  in;
b)Making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)Advising on; and
d)Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated  investments
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  on those  activities 
detailed above (dependent  upon any restrictions inherent in your contract); these  are referred 
to as the Scope of Permissions.
Ref: DRN681964913All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised  regime on 1 June 2005.   As an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels and product 
ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
2.4 Restricted activities
Intricnsics scope of permission does not allow appointed representatives or advisers to carry 
out certain areas of business.  Below  we detail areas where restrictions apply.
2.4.1 Non-Advised Business
Intrinsic believes that advice is always  necessary,  and our sales processes  have been 
developed bearing this in mind.  Although there is scope within the FSA rules  to operate 
certain non-advised  processes, Intrinsic have chosen not to take advantage of this.
2.4.2 Products requiring  additional authorisation.
As an appointed representative firm or adviser  with Intrinsic there are some restrictions on 
activities relating  to certain products.  Details  of these can be found  in the Licensing  section.
2.4.3 Acting  as Trustee, Power of attorney, or Executor of a Will
You are prohibited from acting for your client as Trustee; Power  of Attorney; or Executor of a 
Will
2.4.4 Dual Authorisation
You are not permitted to have dual authorisation and be directly by the FSA as well as 
through Intrinsic
2.4.5 Dealing with Overseas Clients

8.6 The Sales Process
The advice process is substantially the same for all areas of FCA regulation.  There  are slight 
differences between business areas.  Please refer to guidance  in the Designated Investment, 
Mortgage and Pure Protection and General Insurance Documents for details of the specific 
process requirement for these business areas:
Contacting the client or potential client;
Providing specified information at the outset;
Undertaking  a Know your client  exercise, usually  involving some form of fact find;
Research to recommend  a product which is suited to the clients  needs at that time;
A recommendation (which the client may reject and a subsequent recommendation 
may be made);
Completion of the application form as a sale is made.
8.6.1 Execution only
An execution  only case is one where the client requires no advice as they have already 
decided on the exact contract they require.
Intrinsic firmly believe that full advice should be given to clients  in all circumstances.  
However, if you do come across a client who matches the above circumstances you should 
seek approval  of Compliance before proceeding with business on that basis.
Ref: DRN681964914The above  helps to explain the context  of the s.39 agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER 
Network.  
Some points to note are that Intrinsic has permission to advise on all investments but has 
chosen to offer products  from a limited range.  And the AR is restricted to the product range 
chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsics ARs are however obliged to give advice and may not just sell on an execution  only 
basis.  Advice involves a process that includes getting to know  the clients financial situation  
in order to give suitable advice.  And in turn this means that sometimes  advice involves the 
recommendation to end one investment in order to start another.
This is in effect what has happened in this complaint  the recommendation to end the 
existing personal  pension and to replace it with a Berkley Burke  SIPP.   Mr B switched a 
Clerical Medical personal pension to the Berkley Burke SIPP.   I understand that Clerical 
Medical was not an Intrinsic approved  pension  plan and neither  was the Berkeley Burke 
SIPP.   
Where two pieces of advice are so closely connected, in effect they form a single piece of 
advice.  If one element  of the advice is the responsibility of the principal then the whole 
advice is.  This has been made clear in the recent court case of Financial Ombudsman 
Service v TennetConnect referred to earlier.  In this case the SIPP advice and the personal  
pension advice form a single piece of advice.   The  SIPP advice, as Berkeley Burke  is not an 
Intrinsic approved product, would not be authorised.  However,  if Intrinsic  is responsible  for 
the personal pension advice this would also make it responsible for the SIPP  advice.  The 
personal pension  advice would be classified by Intrinsic  as replacement business.   
special process  for replacement business
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes a special process for replacement business.   Intrinsic 
classifies replacement business as when an adviser  recommends that a customer  replaces 
an existing contract with a new one. The Compliance Manual says it is essential  that for all 
replacement business  the following principles are followed  by the adviser:
Research the exiting policy  and fully understand the features and options available.
Carefully compare the features, options and charges of both policies.
Fully explain and record all negative aspects of the replacement to the client.
Ensure  all the disadvantages  as well as the advantages are fully explained  in the reason for 
recommendation letter  and explain  what factors made you decide that the replacement was in 
the clients  best interests.
The Compliance Manual goes on to say:
Some customers  may have a pre-conceived  idea about what they want  to do and it is easy  
for the adviser to allow  these  cases to become  customer driven.   However,  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS) takes a dim view of these cases.  Their view is often that unless 
the customer  has been  specifically advised not to do something,  then the advisers input  is 
viewed as being a recommendation.
This means  that you need to be clear  about what the most suitable course of action is.  The 
reason for recommendation needs to be absolutely clear about what  was advised, 
irrespective of whether  the customer intends to follow that advice.
Ref: DRN681964915In this case Intrinsic recommended moving Mr Bs existing  personal pension to a SIPP with 
Berkley Burke.  Put another way Intrinsic recommended  the replacement  of an existing  
policy with another.  The replacement business  process should  therefore have been used 
and it is not clear that it was.  In my view it is arguable that the standard required by the 
Compliance Manual  was not reached  because:
It is not clear the existing policies were researched fully.
The features of the existing policies were not fully and clearly analysed  and recorded 
in a recommendation report in particular the existing investment options were  not 
fully and clearly considered.  
Nor were  the existing  charges  analysed and compared to the charges of the SIPP. 
If the adviser  failed  to meet  the standard required in the Compliance Manual would this 
mean the adviser acted contrary to his authority and that Intrinsic was not responsible for the 
advice?
In my view the answer to this question ought to be self-evident.   Can a principal really  only 
be responsible  for advice  if it achieves  a certain  quality and is presented a certain format?  
This seems contrary to the purpose  of s.39 and wrong.
If the adviser  is authorised to give advice about SIPPs it follows  that he will need to be able 
to consider and advise  upon the advantages  and disadvantages of the clients existing 
pension provision if he has any. Requiring  the adviser to document  that advice in a certain 
way is so closely related  to the activities for which permission  is given  that a breach of such 
a requirement is only an inter se matter.  It applies only as between  the principal  and the 
appointed representative.  It does not mean the appointed representative acts outside  the 
scope of his authority.  
This type of restriction - as it applies in this case  is either  an example of certain duties 
needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense 
Network.  Or  it is closely  analogous to such duties.  In either event as explained in the 
Anderson case a breach of that procedural requirement does not mean  that the transaction 
in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is 
taken.
So if the adviser breached the requirements  in the Compliance Manual relating to the 
process for replacement business in my view this factor does not mean Intrinsic is not 
responsible for the advice given.
pre-approval of pension switching  advice
Intrinsic has argued in other complaints that its Compliance Manual includes a requirement 
for preapproval of pension  switching  advice.  I cannot however find that requirement.
If there is such  a requirement and if it was in a similar form to the requirement to get 
preapproval for insistent  client  business,  my view is that such a restriction is similar in nature 
and effect to the restriction relating  to the procedural requirements for replacement  business.  
It is therefore my present view that if there is such a restriction, a breach  of it in this case  
does not mean Intrinsic  is not responsible for the advice given.
special requirements  for pension transfers
Ref: DRN681964916The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  says that pension  switching should  be treated in the 
same way as pension transfers.   Advice  to move  from a personal pension to a SIPP is a 
pension switch according to the regulators rules.  If the advice is to transfer from an 
occupational pension to a SIPP, thats  a pension transfer according to regulators rules.  But 
according to Intrinsics Compliance Manual  both should be treated as pension  transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual the adviser is required to pass Intrinsics pensions  transfer  test 
before advising  on (what Intrinsic calls) pension  transfers.  I understand that the adviser had 
the necessary  qualifications and had been  approved  by Instrinsic to give pension transfer 
advice.
I am therefore satisfied  at the advice to sell (switch) the personal pension was business for 
which Intrinsic  has accepted responsibility  for.  The SIPP advice was inextricably linked to 
the personal pension advice and so in effect  forms a single piece of advice.  Because  of this 
the whole  of the advice  is business for which Intrinsic has accepted responsibility for.   
my provisional decision  on jurisdiction
For the reasons  set out above my provisional decision is that this is a complaint that this 
service can look at.
In the course  of my consideration of the jurisdiction aspects of the complaint I have been 
able to reach a provisional conclusion on the merits  of the complaint.  I will now therefore go 
on to explain my provisional conclusion
The merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, I am satisfied the AR advised Mr B to switch his personal pension to a 
SIPP.  The  purpose  of the advice was to enable the investment in the SGG  products. 
When giving  SIPP advice,  consideration must be given, if known, to the investments to be 
held within  the SIPP.  This has been  made  clear  by a number of statements made  by the 
FCA.  For example on January 2013 the FCA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
Ref: DRN681964917SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Whilst this was issued  after the advice was given to Mr B, I consider it was not a new 
requirement of the FCA but rather a reminder  of what the rules  in force at the time of the 
advice were.  
Therefore, when giving  the advice to transfer  the personal pension to the SIPP, the adviser 
should have considered the investments to be held within the SIPP.   However, to do so 
would require the AR to know what the intended  investments to be held within the SIPP  
were.  It is clear  from the ARs version  of events that he was aware that the purpose  of the 
transfer to the SIPP  was to enable investment in the SGG product.
There are three elements to determining suitability.  These are set out in COBS 9.2.  A 
recommended investment: 
 meets the investors investment objectives
 is such that the investor is able financially to bear any related investment  risks 
consistent with his investment  objectives;  
 is such that the investor has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Nothing was formally established at the time of the advice about the level of risk that Mr B 
was prepared to take.  However, I consider there  is enough background information 
available to make  a reasonable assessment of the level of risk that Mr B had previously 
taken.  I consider that up to the point  of the investment  Mr B would be broadly categorised  
as a medium risk investor.  Mr Bs original personal  pensions were invested  in a range  of 
equity and property  funds that I consider would generally be considered medium risk.  I dont 
think it is disputed that the SGG product would be considered to be a high risk investment.  
On that basis the SGG product exceeded  the level of risk that Mr B was prepared to take. 
The SIPP ended up as Mr Bs only pension provision and as such I consider that he was not 
in a position to bear the risks associated with the SIPP.  An  investor who places the majority 
of their pension into a SIPP for the express purpose  of investing in an unregulated, high risk 
investments is taking a very substantial risk.  I consider that Mr B did not have  the capacity 
to bear this level of risk with his pension.  Mr B was reliant on this investment for the entirety 
of his pension  income.   Any significant  loss on his investments would have a serious impact 
on his retirement income.  
I am also not persuaded that Mr B had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved with the SIPP (by virtue of the investment to be held within  it).  The SGG 
investments were unusual  high risk investments and the risks associated with them  were  
well outside  what a typical retail  investor would encounter.    
Ref: DRN681964918This conclusion is consistent with the comments made by the judge  in the case  of Burns  v 
FCA Upper Tribunal [2018] UKUT 0246 (TCC).
It would be readily  apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an unsophisticated  
retail investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by interests in a defined 
benefit scheme or in a personal pension invested in a spread of traditional investments, to 
switch his benefits into a SIPP which was to be wholly invested in either a single or very 
small number of inherently risky overseas property  investments was a wholly unsuitable  
course of action for that investor to take.  
In my view all three of the factors in deciding suitability  were not met. Even  if Mr B was 
prepared to take a high level of risk with his pension, and to be clear  Im not persuaded that 
he was, to place  all his pension into a high risk investments was not consistent with his 
circumstances. In such a situation the adviser should have advised against  doing this.  I 
consider it reasonable to assume that if Mr B had been advised not to go ahead with the 
SIPP (and without  the SIPP there would have been no SGG investment) he would have 
heeded this advice.
Because of this my provisional conclusion is that the advice to switch  to the SIPP  for the 
purpose of making  the SGG investment  was unsuitable.   
There is some documentary  evidence both from around the time of the investment and from 
some time afterwards that would appear  to contradict the above  conclusions.  
At the time the investment was made Mr B signed certified sophisticated investor  and high 
net worth  investor  certificates.  
The sophisticated investor certificate  provided by Berkley Burke  is a certified  sophisticated 
investor certificate rather than a self certified form.  Attached to this form should  have been a 
written statement from an authorised person confirming Mr B had the required knowledge.  
However, no other paperwork was attached.  
 
Mr B also signed a form to confirm  he was a high net worth investor.
I am satisfied that neither  of this forms are accurate descriptions of Mr B.  It was clearly 
unwise of Mr B to sign documents confirming things  that were untrue  although  investors 
sometimes do.  Often this will be to gain access to what they perceive to be attractive 
investments that are not available  to the general  public.   The  SGG investments were  
described to investors  in very positive terms.
However, the adviser was clearly aware  that these  forms had been signed  by Mr B, as he 
returned them to Berkeley Burke.  It would  have been apparent  to the adviser  that these 
forms were inaccurate (he had provided financial advice to Mr B previously).  These forms 
were a requirement of the SIPP operator and were required to allow the investment in SGG 
products.  The adviser has obligations  to his clients including  an obligation to act in their best 
interests.  It is hard to see how sending  obviously inaccurate forms to the SIPP  operator was 
acting in Mr Bs best interests.  I consider that at this point the adviser  should  have declined 
to act for Mr B in respect of the switch  to the SIPP.  Given  the fact that these were obviously 
unreliable forms I dont think they change my view on suitability.
Ref: DRN681964919As part of potential legal action against  a trustee  associated with the SGG investment a form 
was completed by Mr B.  Mr B was asked what level of risk he understood the investments 
had  to which he wrote n/a.
He was also asked  who advised you to transfer  your pension?  Mr B wrote direct.
This would suggest  that Mr B was not advised  to switch his personal  pension to the SIPP.
The background to the completion of this questionnaire was that it was part of an action 
contemplated against a trustee  associated  with the SGG investments.  I understand that this 
action was suggested to investors by the AR and that the AR funded the initial cost of the 
action.  In such circumstances  I can understand why the AR might  wish to influence  the 
content of the document and in particular not to leave it open to possible complaints or legal 
action.  I therefore do not place  any great weight on this document.
My provisional conclusion is that the advice to switch  a personal pension  to the SIPP  for the 
purpose of investing  in the SGG product was unsuitable.
I also consider that losing the entirety  of his pension would have been upsetting for Mr B.  I 
propose to award  him 500 to compensate him for this.   
fair compensation
The redress  calculation should compare  the current value of Mr Bs SIPP to the total value of 
her previously held pension, had it remained with the same provider in the same funds.
Intrinsic should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Bs previous pension  plan, if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP.
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Bs SIPP, including  any outstanding charges.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
In addition, Intrinsic should:
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr B to the SIPP.
5.Pay Mr B 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have explained  how Intrinsic should carry this out in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Bs previous pension  plan if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP.
This should take account of any guaranteed  benefits that may have applied to the previous 
pension plan.
Ref: DRN681964920If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index should be used  instead. That is a reasonable proxy  for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen. 
2.Obtain the actual transfer  value of Mr Bs SIPP, including  any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
The SGG and Global Forestry investments  should be assumed to have a nil value.
Intrinsic may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr B may receive from the investments and 
any eventual sums  he would be able to access from the SIPP.  Intrinsic will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
value calculated  in (1). This payment should  take account  of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges. It should  also take account of interest as set out below.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Intrinsic should  pay it as a cash 
sum to Mr B. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the redress 
calculation until the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable on this interest.
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed  by Mr B to the SIPP.
Had Intrinsic given  suitable advice, I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr B 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.
Ideally, Intrinsic should take over the investments to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr B back in the position he would have been in. But I dont know  how 
long that will take.  Third parties are involved and I dont have the power to tell them what to 
do. To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Intrinsic  pays Mr B an upfront  lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  
There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide Mr B 
with some confidence that he will not be subject  to further fees.
In my view, awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees strikes a fair 
balance. Its possible that the SGG and Global Forestry investments could be removed  from 
the SIPP in less than five years. But given the time it has taken to date I think  it is possible 
that it could take a number of years more  to resolve all of the issues. So using a figure of five 
years worth  of fees is an approximate and fair award  to resolve the issue now.
Ref: DRN6819649215.Pay Mr B 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B has been caused some distress by the loss of his pension. I think  a payment of 500  is 
appropriate compensation for that distress.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further  to add.  The  firm did not 
agree but had nothing further to add.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   As neither party has anything  further  to 
add I confirm that my final decision is the same as the above provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I order  Quilter  Financial Services  Ltd to pay 
the redress set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6819649