K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Ulster Bank  Ltd misled him about whether  his mortgage was portable.  
He asks that it transfers the mortgage to his current property and refunds the early 
repayment charge  (ERC).
background
Mr M had a mortgage with Ulster Bank. In April 2017 he took out additional borrowing which  
he used to buy a second property to renovate and move into. In 2018 and 2019 Mr M 
contacted Ulster Bank again. He wanted  to sell his first property and port the mortgage to the 
second property.  
Ulster Bank declined to port the mortgage saying it doesnt allow porting to properties  
already owned.  Mr M sold his property, repaid his mortgage and paid an ERC. Mr M says he 
told Ulster Bank from the outset about  his plans to move into the new property and it didnt 
tell him there would be a problem with this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said there  wasnt  clear 
evidence that Ulster  Bank told Mr M hed be able to port the mortgage to a property he 
already owned.  He said Mr M could have sold his property a few weeks  later,  when the ERC 
no longer applied. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said the investigator  hadnt  put enough weight on the evidence  he 
provided, as compared  to the recollections of staff at Ulster Bank. He said he discussed 
porting with Ulster Bank  in January  2017, April 2018  and January 2019.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the 2017 offer of additional  lending: porting and the ERC:
When Mr M took out the additional borrowing in April 2017 he also took out a two year fixed 
rate product.  The product  included an ERC,  payable if the borrowing was repaid before 30 
April 2019. The mortgage offer says the interest  rate product can be ported, in which  case  
the ERC  isnt payable.  
Ulster Bank says its policy is that products cant be ported to properties already owned.  I 
dont think Ulster Bank made an error when it said it wouldnt port Mr Ms mortgage to his 
second property,  which he already  owned:  it acted in accordance  with its own lending  policy. 
As Mr M repaid the loan during the fixed rate period,  I think  Ulster Bank was entitled under 
the terms of the mortgage to apply the ERC.
But this isnt the end of the matter. I also need to consider whether Ulster Bank treated Mr M 
fairly and gave him correct information about his mortgage.
Ref: DRN66748132the additional borrowing and fixed rate product:
Mr M met with Ulster Bank in January  2017  to discuss borrowing  to buy a property. Ulster 
Banks notes say the property he wanted  to buy wasnt  suitable security as it had been used 
for a business and needed work to make it suitable  as a residence.  Mr M wanted to take out 
additional borrowing  on his existing property to pay for the purchase.  
Ulster Bank provided  the fact find and mortgage illustration that resulted  from the meeting, 
with the covering letter. The fact find says 
You are planning  on selling this house  possibly in two years  time when you have the 
retirement property in order. 
You plan to sell this house in the next 2 years  and move to this house that you plan to 
purchase now. This house you are buying  will be an ultimate retirement home  for you 
and your wife. This will not impact  on your ability to repay the mortgage.
You want to have  stability for this additional borrowing. You want to know  what is going 
out of your account  monthly as you want to be in a position to carry out the work  to the 
new house until you can sell your current house  to repay the mortgage  in full or lease  it 
out (you havent  fully decided on this yet). You want to keep your options open and 
decide in 2 years so you dont want to fix the mortgage for any longer. You have a 
flexible element in the mortgage  in sub account  2 and you know  that if rates  start to 
change you can fix this at any time but you want to keep that rate because  you would be 
mad to let it go right now while rates are so low. 
Rates could go any direction; you just want to be protected from potential increases  for 
the next 2 years on the larger proposed balance on your mortgage. 
Ulster Bank recommended a fixed rate product which ended on 30 April 2019. Based on the 
information in the fact find  that Mr M wanted the option to make  a decision about what to 
do with the property in two years  time and fixed payments in the meantime  I think  this was 
suitable. 
Its clear that the mortgage adviser knew Mr M intended  to buy a property and move into it in 
the future.  But theres nothing in the fact find or other documents from 2017 to suggest that 
Mr M intended to port the mortgage to the new property  within  the fixed rate period. I think  a 
two year fixed rate product was chosen  so that it would end by the time Mr M would decide 
whether to sell the property. The fact find and cover letter  were  sent to Mr M. If they didnt 
reflect the discussion hed had with the mortgage  adviser, he could have raised this at the 
time. 
the information Mr M was given about porting in 2018 and 2019:
Mr M discussed porting  with Ulster  Bank in March 2018 and January 2019. The parties 
dispute whether  Mr M was told  wrongly  that he could port the mortgage to a property  he 
already owned.  From  looking at the notes  I think the parties talked at cross-purposes. 
Ulster Banks staff assumed Mr M was buying  a new property (which  would  usually be the 
reason for a porting request). Mr M assumed they knew  he was moving to the property hed 
bought two years before  with the additional  borrowing. But even if there  was a failure here by 
Ulster Bank I dont  think it would change matters significantly: porting was never  an option 
Ref: DRN66748133here because Ulster Bank doesnt  allow porting to a property  already  owned. Mr M was told 
this on 16 January 2019.
Mr M says he didnt  want to shatter the dreams of his buyers  by moving the completion  date 
from March 2019.  He hasnt said this wasnt possible. I appreciate  it might have been  difficult 
to agree a completion date in May 2019,  so as to avoid having to pay the ERC. But porting 
isnt guaranteed and lenders are entitled  to consider whether a porting application meets 
their lending criteria.  I dont think,  in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require 
Ulster Bank to port Mr Ms mortgage  or refund  the ERC.
Mr M is unhappy  about the way Ulster  Bank dealt with his complaint. This isnt something I 
can consider here as complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6674813