K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Mr M, business partners, complain that their broker  DNA Insurance  Services  Ltd 
retained their deposit after they cancelled their commercial motor  insurance policy.  They 
want a full refund.  
background
Mr J and Mr M took out a policy through DNA and paid a deposit of £478.83.  Various policy 
validation checks were  carried out but a check couldnt be made on Mr Js licence due to a 
technical issue at the DVLA.  So the insurer told DNA to cancel  the policy but Mr J and Mr M 
requested the policy be cancelled.  DNA then applied charges for time on cover, loss of 
commission and cancellation, leaving  a debt of £30 which  it waived. Mr J and Mr M thought 
this was unfair and asked  for a full refund. DNA  thought it had done all it could to prevent the 
cancellation and the decision to cancel  was the insurers.  
Our first adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Mr J and Mr M had made reasonable attempts to meet  the requests for documents and 
information to validate the policy. He thought the problem with the DVLA was outside their 
control. He noted  that Mr J had tried to provide  a resolution but this wasnt acceptable  to the 
insurer. He thought Mr J and Mr M had no choice but to cancel the policy and seek cover  
elsewhere. Our second adjudicator added  that he thought DNA didnt explain to the insurer 
what the actual  problem with the DVLA was. So he thought they should  be charged just for 
their time on cover and receive a refund of the remainder, with interest.
DNA replied  that it had done all it could and the insurer had decide to cancel the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J and Mr M decided  to cancel the policy themselves rather  than allow the insurer  to 
cancel it. I think that was fair and reasonable as they wouldnt want a record of cancellation 
on their file as that might  affect future cover elsewhere. I also think that as theyd been told 
that the insurer intended to cancel, they had to seek new cover in any case.
But the consequences were that they were  charged by DNA  for their time on cover,  loss of 
commission and cancellation. DNA  said it did all it could to avert  the cancellation. So I need  
to consider whether this was enough and whether its fairly retained all Mr J and Mr Ms 
deposit.
The problem stemmed from a technical  issue at the DVLA  with providing the required details 
about Mr J. I can see that Mr J provided  his documentation and information as required by 
DNA. He also contacted  the DVLA himself to identify the problem. It gave him the option of 
having the insurer speak to the DVLA directly to validate his licence details. This was 
conveyed to DNA and DNA has provided us with the call in which  it offered this to the 
insurer.
Ref: DRN62529312In this call, I dont think DNA made  it clear  to the insurer  what the actual  problem was or 
what the likely timescale for resolution  by the DVLA would be. I dont think it was made  clear  
that the problem lay with the DVLA and wasnt the fault of Mr J. I agree with the adjudicators 
that if DNA  had been better  informed  or better explained the issue to the insurer,  then the 
outcome could have  been  different.
So Im not persuaded that DNA did all it could to prevent the cancellation. By this time the 
cooling off period had finished  and so the cancellation charges  would  normally apply. But I 
think its unfair that Mr J and Mr M should be penalised for something outside their control 
when I think DNA could have done  more to resolve the issue. I agree that they should be 
charged for their time on cover, but I dont think its fair for DNA  to apply other charges 
following the cancellation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require DNA Insurance Services Ltd 
to do the following:
1.Refund Mr J and Mr M any amounts  they were charged outside their charge for time on 
cover. Interest at the rate of 8% simple  per year should be added to this refund from the 
date of cancellation to the date of payment.
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires DNA  to withhold income tax from that interest. It must 
give Mr J and Mr M a certificate showing how much  its taken off if they ask for one.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6252931