K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly  charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In 2014, Mr A acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £23,184.07. Mr A was required to make  1 monthly 
payment of £471,  47 monthly payments of £322  and there was a final optional  payment of 
£7,579.07 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr A had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£11,592.04.
In 2017, Mr A chose  to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early.  
After Mr A handed the car back,  BMWFS charged  him a further £2,992.51 as he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr A had an annual mileage allowance  of 7,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 28,583. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 7.88 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr A didnt think this charge was enforceable.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found  that the 
terms of the agreement were clear  around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being  
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary,  he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief, on termination  a consumer  is liable to pay at least half of the total  price of 
the agreement.  Total  price  is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase  agreement. It doesnt  include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means  that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability  for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr As agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
Ref: DRN60607382The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr As accrued liability under S100 therefore  included 
paying an additional amount of £2,992.51.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view,  so his complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board and think  about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where  the information  Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some  of its here, Ive to base my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr A use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£7,579.07. While Mr A was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, 
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement  set out what would 
happen should Mr A not meet those requirements.
Mr A exercised his right to voluntarily terminate  the agreement. In some  instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependent on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr A accepts that he was required to pay £11,592.04 to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £2,992.51 that has been added  
on top of this figure. 
Ref: DRN60607383The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr As hire purchase agreement  also refers  to the liability  that is due on termination  and in 
his case, that was £11,592.04.  Various sections of the agreement Mr A had with BMWFS 
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply  the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. In other  words,  what  Ive 
to decide is, has the agreement  been  constructed in a way as to allow  the charging for 
excess mileage without  contravening what  is set out in the CCA regarding  voluntary 
termination? In Mr As specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination arent affected by the termination.  What this means is that Mr A is liable  to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr As hire purchase  agreement has a section headed:  Excess  mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr As agreement  is worded clearly  in setting out when  excess  mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights.  This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr A has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr A.  
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr A is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
I appreciate that Mr A says he was in financial  difficulties and this was the reason for 
voluntary terminating  the agreement. But this in itself doesnt  mean  BMWFS had no right to 
charge him for excess mileage.
Mr A is correct  in saying that the investigator disagreed with BMWFS that excess mileage 
constitutes a failure to take reasonable care of the car. But this isnt material  to the outcome 
of this case for the reasons  Ive already given.
Ref: DRN60607384Mr A says that at no point  was the value  of the car discussed or clarified with him and he 
was advised that if he wished to trade  in the car at any time, the excess  mileage would be 
taken into account.  
Now Im not sure the point  Mr A is making here,  but it might help if I explain that whatever 
price BMWFS might have  got for the car, after its return, has no bearing  on whether it can or 
cant charge Mr A for excess mileage. It should  also be remembered  that although BMWFS 
might have received  more  for the car than £8,599.53  (£11,592.04 - £2,992.51) there is also 
the possibility  it received  less.
I would also add that the final optional  payment  or balloon payment on Mr As agreement is 
possibly set at what  BMWFS considers  the likely value  of the car would be when Mr A 
reaches the end of the hire purchase  agreement. Its a prediction  and isnt a guaranteed  
value for what Mr A will get if he chooses  to part-exchange the car at the end. Further, Mr A 
was not all the way through the agreement when he voluntary  terminated  it. Therefore, the 
value that BMWFS predicted in 2014 wasnt relevant to when Mr A voluntary terminated his 
agreement.
Given that Mr A still had a number  of rentals  to pay off from the agreement  before he 
reached the end, this will have impacted the value the car needed  to sell for in order  for Mr A 
to settle the finance. Cars generally depreciate at different rates,  meaning the depreciation of 
the car isnt necessarily  at the same  rate at which Mr A was making the monthly  repayments.  
Had Mr A kept the car and enquired about  part-exchanging it at the end of the agreement, 
its quite possible the valuation would have been similar to what  BMWFS  had originally 
predicted.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2021.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6060738