K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited has stopped paying benefit under his 
group income protection policy.
background 
Mr P is a member of his employers group income protection policy. The policy benefit is 
50% of salary.
In 2017 Mr Ps GP signed  him off work as he was suffering from depression following his son 
sadly passing away. Mr P says his GP continued to sign him off as not fit for work.  Hes tried 
medication and been  referred to mental health  services.
Aviva initially  accepted Mr Ps claim and paid benefit  under the policy from 16 May 2018.  But 
after reviewing the medical evidence Aviva  said Mr P should be able to consider a phased  
return to work so it would  only pay benefit  until 31 July 2018. Mr P sent his employers 
occupational health providers report but Aviva didnt change its decision. After  Mr P 
complained to Aviva it arranged an independent medical examination  by a consultant which  
took place in January 2019.
The consultants report said Mr P was able to begin  a phased return  to work  at the end of 
February 2019. Based on the report Aviva  agreed  to pay benefit to cover 1 August 2018 to 
28 February 2019. It said after that date it would be willing to consider  proportionate benefits 
once a return to work  was in place.
Mr P complained to us. He doesnt agree with the independent consultants report  and said it 
contradicted other medical evidence. In summary, his main  points are:
his GP, mental health therapist and employers occupational health provider said he 
wasnt fit to return to work
Avivas letter said he had to be totally incapacitated from performing the material and 
substantial duties  of (his) occupation  but the policy  doesnt say totally
the consultants  report was incorrect. It didnt detail the reasons for his depression  or 
that he had flashbacks which made  him very emotional which hed find humiliating if 
at work. It didnt say he used complicated  dangerous machinery at work so he could 
put himself and others in danger
the consultant didnt  offer him any sympathy and was more  concerned  with arranging 
transport for his next appointment
Aviva  hasn't recognised hes being treated for depression so its discriminating 
against him as depression is a condition  included  in the Equality Act 2010
Aviva's decision not to continue the benefit  isnt based on medical evidence  but due 
to his decision about his investment portfolio with Aviva
Avivas decision not pay benefit caused him additional stress.
Our investigator thought Aviva acted  unreasonably  in stopping the benefit in July 2018 and it 
should pay Mr P £200 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. But our investigator 
said Aviva  had acted reasonably in relying  on the independent consultants  report to decide 
whether to continue  paying Mr P benefit.
Aviva accepted our investigator's recommendation.
Ref: DRN69475082Mr P didnt accept the recommendation  and said we hadnt addressed the points hed made. 
He also provided  more evidence; a letter dated August 2019 from his mental  health  therapist 
and a letter  from his employers human resources department following a meeting with Mr P 
in February 2019.  Both letters said Mr P was unfit to work.
Before I made a decision I asked for Mr P's new evidence to be sent to Aviva for its 
comment. It said the therapist, who wasnt medically qualified, couldnt accurately  comment  
on Mr Ps medical ability to resume work or override  the consultants  opinion without 
providing detailed  medical reasoning. Aviva said the human resources partner  wasnt 
medically qualified  to assess whether Mr P was medically fit to return to work.
Aviva noted  the mental health  therapists letter was eight months after the consultants  
assessment. Aviva  said as the policy wasnt Mr Ps he would need  to contact his employer 
and they would need to authorise the start of a new claim. Aviva would want  to see Mr Ps 
GP medical  notes to understand any deterioration  for Mr P, clarification about any 
therapeutic work and have the opportunity to fully assess any new claim.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to partly uphold Mr Ps complaint. I said:
Mr P has had a terrible time and I dont doubt  its been very difficult for him. But I have to 
decide whether  Aviva  has acted fairly  and reasonably and I think  it has.
Im intending  to partly uphold the complaint and say Aviva must pay Mr P £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience,  as its now agreed.  It doesnt need  to reinstate 
full benefit payment on the evidence I have.  Ill explain why.
The policy says Mr P will receive benefit for incapacity once the deferred period has finished. 
Incapacity is defined  in the policy as:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis  the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury.
Although Avivas final response  letter to Mr P referred to total incapacity thats not what the 
policy says. However, Avivas mis-quote of the policy  term hasnt affected  how its assessed 
the claim.
I think that once Aviva  received the occupational health providers August 2018 report  it 
should have acted more quickly in arranging an independent medical examination.  
I understand it got the report in October 2018.  Aviva was aware Mr P hadn't  returned to work 
in August and understood the report raised  the possibility that he wasnt  fit to return  to work 
due to his medical  condition.  Aviva  accepts it delayed. It paid the benefit to Mr P from end of 
July 2018 to end of February 2019. Its now agreed to pay the £200 compensation for his 
trouble and upset  as our investigator recommended.
I think £200 is a fair amount particularly as Mr P already suffered from depression  so the 
additional stress would have had a considerable impact on him.
The consultant saw Mr P for the independent medical examination  in January 2019 and 
reported at the beginning of February  2019.  The report says Mr P:
Ref: DRN69475083could now attempt a well supported phased return to work, initially  working 16 hours  
a week over a minimum of 4 days, and gradually increasing to full time over 3 to 4 
months, depending on progress.
I am of the opinion  that it could be very difficult to encourage him to return to work as 
he is not at all motivated  to do so, and is quite negative in his thought processes. 
I think that return at this stage, however, could be therapeutic  for him. He could also 
be helped by bereavement counselling.
The consultants clear  opinion is that Mr P could attempt a phased  return to work.
Ive seen Mr Ps comments about the consultants report. Im satisfied  the consultant had 
been given Mr Ps medical  and relevant personal background information he needed  to 
make a recommendation about his fitness to work. Aviva put the comments  Mr P made  to it 
about the report to the consultant who didnt  change his opinion  that Mr P was fit to make a 
phased return to work. He didnt  agree  with Mr Ps recollection about  the time he spent 
arranging transport for his next meeting.
The consultant is an independent medical expert. Im satisfied  he is a suitably qualified  
expert. Aviva acted fairly  in relying on the consultants report  in making  its decision about  
paying benefit under the policy.
Mr P says the consultants report contradicted previous medical  evidence.  But his 
employers occupational health  providers report was dated August 2018  and Mr Ps 
condition could have  changed by January 2019.  Also Mr Ps GP and psychiatric notes  dont 
focus on how his medical  condition  impacts  on his ability to work.  The consultant was 
specifically instructed to assess how Mr Ps medical condition impacted on his ability to 
return to work and whether he could complete the duties of his job role.
Mr P has now provided further evidence.  The letter from his mental  health  therapist says he 
was referred to a counselling team starting in March 2019. As at August 2019  hed had eight  
sessions. The therapist says:
Mr P is still undergoing treatment and feels that he is not in the right mental,  
emotional or physical state to go back to work. At this time I would concur  with Mr P. 
I also believe that the issues with his finances  are getting in the way of the 
therapeutic work he is undertaking  and any progress he could make.
I dont know if the therapist is medically qualified, Aviva says shes  not. But even if she is 
medically qualified  the letter gives no medical reasoning about why Mr P is now unfit to 
return to work due to his medical condition or reasoning why she disagrees with the 
consultants opinion. Aviva can fairly  say the therapists letter isnt strong enough  evidence  to 
say Mr P medically cant return to work due to his medical condition.
The letter from Mr Ps human resources partner summarises a meeting  she had with Mr P in 
February 2019 before she was sent the consultants report. The letter says:
We agreed during  our meeting  that you were clearly  still unfit for work both physically 
but more specifically, mentally.
Mr Ps employers  human  resources partner isnt medically qualified to give a medical 
opinion about  whether  Mr P is fit to return to work due to his medical  condition.
Ref: DRN69475084Aviva can reasonably say two opinions of non-medically qualified  people dont outweigh  the 
conclusions of a suitably qualified expert in the field. It can still fairly rely on the independent 
consultants medical  opinion for it to stop paying the policy  benefit  as from 28 February 
2019. It fairly  said it would  be willing to consider proportionate benefits once Mr Ps return to 
work was in place.
Theres no evidence that Aviva doesnt recognise Mr P is being treated for depression or that 
its discriminating against him under the Equality Act 2010. Aviva does recognise Mr Ps 
medical condition  which is evidenced  by it having paid benefit under the policy due to his 
depression. It decided to stop payment based  on medical evidence it fairly relied on.
Theres no evidence that Avivas decision is based on any decision Mr P has made about his 
investment portfolio with Aviva. Its decision is based  on the medical  evidence  its received.
I appreciate that its several months  since the consultant saw Mr P. In the future Mr P may 
be able to provide  detailed  medical evidence that he is incapacitated as defined  by the policy  
and unfit to return to work. Aviva has said that if Mr P wants  to make a new claim and 
provide new detailed medical evidence he should contact his employers. It will then assess 
any new claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P said hed visited his GP and discussed  my provisional  decision.  He provided new 
evidence; a fitness to work note signed by his GP and a letter from his GP, both dated  
25 November 2019. Mr P queried  why Aviva had said theres no clinical evidence of his 
medical condition  when his doctor had prescribed various anti depressants and organised  
psychological treatment/talking  therapies  to treat his depression.
We sent the new medical evidence to Aviva for its comments. Aviva said:
the fitness to work note is evidence of whether  Mr P was able to work as at 
25 November 2019, not when the independent  medical experts assessment was 
carried out and its decision made
the GPs  letter gives information  that the independent medical expert was already 
aware of at the time of his assessment. The GP doesnt comment  on the 
independent medical  experts findings  or why the GP medically disagrees with an 
expert consultants medical opinion
the GPs  letter doesnt explain  if and how Mr Ps medical condition had changed 
since the independent medical  experts  assessment 
the independent medical expert, a consultant,  is of a more senior qualification  to the 
GP and it was still fair for Aviva  to have relied on the expert consultants medical 
evidence 
if Mr Ps medical condition has deteriorated since the independent medical experts 
assessment Mr P should submit a new claim through the policyholder,  his employers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69475085Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but I havent changed  my mind  about what I think  is a fair 
outcome of his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P asks how Aviva can say he doesnt  have depression when hes been diagnosed by his 
GP and tried medication  and therapy. Aviva isnt disputing that Mr P has depression.  The 
issue is whether hes unable to do his job on a full or part time basis  due to his illness. 
The new fitness  to work  note shows  that on 25 November 2019  Mr Ps GP thought  hes not 
fit to work due to bereavement and depression for six months. The GPs  accompanying letter  
says from the time Mr Ps son passed away in 2017 Mr Ps not been fit to work and had not 
fit to work notes. By November 2017 hed developed  clinical depression and the GP details 
Mr Ps symptoms  - low mood, poor motivation, poor energy  levels and anhedonia. The letter  
also details two medications Mr P tried in 2017 and two in 2018  which  either caused adverse 
effects or werent effective at lifting his mood  and he had six one to one sessions with the 
mental health support service in 2018.
But the independent medical  expert  had all that information at the time of his assessment  of 
Mr P in January 2019, when he asesssed that Mr P was fit to start a phased return  to work. 
The only information  the independent medical  expert didnt have is whats  happened  after 
the assessment.  The GP says Mr P started  a further  course of psychological  
treatment/talking therapies from a primary mental health care therapist in mid 2019  and 
I explained in my provisional decision  why Aviva can fairly  say the therapists letter  isnt 
strong enough evidence to say Mr P medically cant return to work due to his medical 
condition. The GP also says that he and Mr P have now decided  to try a new anti 
depressant.
Mr Ps GP says:  
On review (on 25 November 2019), my clinical impression is that (Mr P) continues to 
have moderate-severe  depression on the basis of both his symptom description and 
how he appears objectively. I believe that he remains too unwell to work  on the basis 
of my judgment.
However, the GP hasnt referred to independent  medical experts findings, explained why he 
disagreed with the experts findings,  or explained  if and how Mr Ps medical condition had 
changed since the independent  medical  experts assessment.
Aviva has made the point  that the independent  medical expert, a consultant, is of a more  
senior qualification to the GP, which I accept.  But irrespective  of seniority of qualification the 
GP hasnt  provided any reasoning as to why he disagrees with the independent medical 
experts assessment.
So I think Aviva  can still fairly rely on the consultant experts medical evidence that at the 
time of the assessment  Mr P was fit to start a phased return to work and for it to stop paying 
the policy benefit as from 28 February 2019.  It fairly said it would be willing to consider 
proportionate benefits once Mr Ps return to work was in place
In my provisional decision I said that in the future Mr P may be able to provide detailed  
medical evidence  that he is incapacitated  as defined by the policy and unfit to return to work, 
and make a new claim. He has provided  new evidence that his GP doesnt think  he is 
currently fit to work, although as Ive said the GP gives no information about  whether theres  
Ref: DRN69475086been any deterioration in Mr Ps health since he was assessed  by the independent  medical 
expert as being  able to start a phased return to work.
If Mr P can get detailed medical evidence about whether and how his medical  condition  has 
deteriorated since the independent  medical  experts assessment he should submit a new 
claim through his employers, the policyholders. Aviva can then assess  the new claim. If Mr P 
disagrees with Avivas assessment of that new claim he can ultimately  make  a new 
complaint to us.
Neither party has made any comment in relation to the proposed £200 compensation for 
Mr P's distress  and inconvenience so Ive no reason to change  my mind  that £200 is a fair 
amount.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I partly uphold  the 
complaint. Aviva must  pay Mr P £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience, as its 
now agreed. It doesnt need to reinstate Mr Ps full benefit payment.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr P £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience,  as its now agreed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947508