K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading  as Barclays  Partner 
Finance) (BPF)  refused his request to extend  an interest free period.
background
Mr M was supplied  with a sofa in January 2017  and entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement  
with BPF. The agreement was for a term of 4 years with an interest free period of 12 months.
Mr M complained about the quality of the sofa in April 2017.  This service has already 
considered this complaint separately  and a decision has been issued. Therefore, I wont  be 
considering the quality  complaint and will restrict my decision to the complaint about the 
extension of the interest free period.
When Mr M complained to BPF about  the quality of the sofa, he asked for the interest free 
period to be extended. Mr M says that because  of the amount of time it took to resolve his 
complaint he wasnt  able to take advantage  of the interest free period. Hes also unhappy 
BPF didnt  respond  to a further request to extend  the interest free period  which  he made  in 
July 2018.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said BPF hadnt treated Mr M unfairly  in 
refusing to extend the interest free period  because  he had entered into a legally binding 
agreement with a 12 month interest free period.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he hadnt seen the credit agreement. He also said hed tried to 
set up a direct debit to make additional monthly  payments once the interest free period had 
ended but had been told by BPF that this wasnt possible and that he would need to call to 
make any additional  payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M first complained to BPF about  the quality of the sofa in April 2017.  I 
understand that he asked for the interest  free period to be extended at the same time.  BPF 
responded by arranging  an independent inspection of the sofa. Following receipt of the 
inspection report,  BPF rejected Mr Ms complaint. Mr M says that the delay in dealing  with 
his complaint meant that he wasnt able to benefit  from the interest free period. However, 
BPF arranged the inspection, explained  why it didnt consider there was evidence of 
unsatisfactory quality  and rejected the complaint within a month, so Im unable to say that 
there was delay. 
At the same time as rejecting his complaint,  BPF told Mr M that it wouldnt extend the 
interest free period.  I appreciate that Mr M wanted  to take his complaint further (and did so 
via this service) but Im also satisfied that from this point onwards, Mr M was aware  (or ought  
to have been aware) that the terms of the agreement wouldnt be changed.
Mr M says that BPF didnt respond to his second request to extend  the interest free period,  
which he says he made by letter in July 2018.  Ive reviewed BPFs system notes which 
provide a record of all contact with Mr M. However, I cant  see that BPF received a letter 
Ref: DRN67597162from Mr M in July 2018. Because of this, I cant say that it was unreasonable  of BPF not to 
respond. In any event,  had BPF received  the letter and responded,  I think BPFs position 
would have been the same as before. This is supported by BPFs response to a subsequent 
request to extend  the interest free period.
Ive looked at the credit agreement. This makes  it clear  that the interest free period is 12 
months. Even if Mr M didnt read the credit agreement before he signed  it, Im satisfied,  
based on his request  to extend in the early months, that he was aware  that the terms of the 
agreement included an interest free period of 12 months. 
If Mr Ms complaint about the quality of the sofa had been upheld  then it may have been 
appropriate to ask BPF to extend  the interest  free period.  But because the sofa was found to 
be of satisfactory quality, I cant fairly require BPF to change the terms of the agreement.
I understand that Mr M intended to pay off the balance before the end of the interest free 
period  but I dont think BPF did anything  to prevent Mr M from doing this. Ive taken  
account of Mr Ms comments about having to call to make additional payments once the 
interest free period  had ended and regular direct debit payments had commenced, but 
again, I dont think the fact that Mr M had to call prevented him from making any additional 
payments that he wanted to.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome which Mr M hoped for but for the reasons Ive 
explained Im unable to say that BPF has acted unfairly in not extending the interest free 
period.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6759716