K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in with a credit card in August 2004. Miss B says Capital  One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Capital One made  it clear  that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. Ive seen a copy  of 
Miss Bs credit card application form, which she completed and sent to Capital One by post.  
It includes a yes and a no box to accept or decline PPI. The yes box has been  ticked,  and 
Miss B has signed the form. So Im satisfied that she made that choice, knowing she didnt 
have to.
As the policy was sold by post, Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B. So it didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss B got the information 
she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it couldve been  useful  for 
her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the cost of 
the PPI wouldve put her off taking out the cover. 
So Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Miss 
B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said - including what she have said about her 
entitlement to generous sick pay as a public sector worked. Whilst I acknowledge that 
Miss B was likely entitled to some sick pay, the PPI couldve  paid out for up to twelve  months  
if Miss B was too unwell to work, leaving her sick pay for other  financial commitments. It also 
couldve paid out for up to twelve  months if shed lost her job  and I havent  seen  that 
Ref: DRN63747782Miss B had any other  means of making her repayments if that had happened.  So  this point  
doesnt change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6374778