K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled her contents insurance 
claim for theft,  and the settlement it offered, following a burglary at her home  in December 
2018. 
background
Miss Ss house was burgled one evening  in December 2018  whilst she and her partner  were  
out for the evening. They reported the crime to the police  who sent an investigator  to the 
house as no police officers were available. The investigator noted in the crime report that the 
perpetrators gained  access  by forcing  a kitchen  window  open at the back of the house and 
exited through  the back kitchen door. Numerous items were  taken  including  multiple 
electrical items, Miss Ss collection of perfumes  and a significant  amount of jewellery. 
Miss S made a claim under her home insurance  policy. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to 
validate the claim. Having conducted an interview with Miss S and her partner in January 
2019 and carried  out some background checks,  the loss adjuster recommended  that the 
claim proceed to settlement. 
At the end of January  2019, Miss S complained to Aviva about the length of time it was 
taking to settle her claim and the inconvenience it was putting her to by continually asking 
her for proof of purchase or ownership of the items claimed. She said shed already provided  
as much information as she could.  Aviva said it looked into her complaint and addressed  her 
concerns so was closing  her complaint.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, the way Aviva  continued  to deal with her 
claim, the associated delays and the fact it remained  unresolved, Miss S complained  to this 
service. She said Aviva  continued to ask her for proof of purchase shed told it she didnt 
have. Whilst our investigator was trying  to obtain information about the complaint from Aviva, 
Miss S let her know that shed received an offer of settlement  for her claim from Aviva for 
£21,515.19.
Miss S told Aviva that there  were  items  missing  from the offer and that some of the items  
listed had been  undervalued. Aviva  looked  again  at the claim and made  a further  offer of 
£7,625.42 which Miss S said she agreed to accept.  Miss S let our investigator know  that she 
wasnt happy with the offer Aviva had made  her for her TV. She said shed paid £2,600 for 
the TV and itd only offered her £600. She also said she thought some compensation was 
warranted for the delays and inconvenience  shed  experienced. She said shed had to chase  
Aviva on numerous occasions  and it was only through her persistence that itd increased  the 
settlement amount. She said she felt as though the loss adjuster was accusing her of not 
living in the house. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Overall  
she thought there hadnt been  any delays and that Aviva had settled  Miss Ss claim for the 
TV in line with the policy terms and conditions which allowed it to cash  settle claims based 
on what it would cost it to replace  the stolen item with a new one. She said Aviva had said it 
would cost it £600 to do so, so she thought  it had treated Miss S fairly. 
Miss S disagreed with our investigators  findings. She said she hadnt received settlement for 
the TV on a like-for-like basis. Miss S said shed found the same TV for sale online for 
Ref: DRN62772922£1,529. She sent this information  to Aviva, but it said the TV was no longer  available  and 
that it had settled her claim in line with the policy terms. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision recommending  the 
complaint was upheld. I made the following provisional findings and provisional decision:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think this complaint should be upheld, Ill 
explain why. 
The outstanding aspects of Miss Ss complaint for me to consider relate to the settlement 
Aviva is prepared to make  for the stolen  television  and whether it should  pay her any 
compensation. 
How Aviva settles a claim is set out in the policy terms and conditions   this is the contract 
between Miss S and Aviva. Miss Ss policy says:  We can choose to settle  your claim by: 
replacing; reinstating; repairing  or payment. We will replace on a like for like basis or give 
you the nearest  equivalent available in the current market.  If we are able to replace  property  
but agree  to make a cash  settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace  
the item as if it were new [my emphasis].
So the contract between Miss S and Aviva  gives it the choice about how a claim will be 
settled. And, if Aviva  can replace an item but agrees to a request from the policyholder  to 
pay cash instead, it will only pay what it would cost it to do so. Typically insurers have 
specially negotiated arrangements with suppliers to obtain items at discounted rates  not 
available to the general public. So often, items  can be replaced  by insurers at far less cost 
than can be bought on the high street. 
Whilst the policy term Ive quoted  above  does give Aviva the right to choose the method of 
settlement, I dont think it allows Aviva, when it chooses to cash settle,  to only pay what  it 
would cost it to replace  the item as new. I think a reasonable  interpretation of the term Ive 
quoted is that where an item can be replaced but Aviva agrees (at the behest of the 
policyholder) to pay cash instead then in that situation the amount paid can be based on the 
cost to Aviva of replacing it. But it seems to me, in this case, it is Aviva that has chosen to 
cash settle the claim as it hasnt offered  to replace Miss Ss TV on a like for like basis at any 
point. 
But as Aviva is aware, home insurance policies are policies of indemnity. That means they 
aim to put the policyholder back in the position  they were in just before the loss or damage 
happened. In Miss Ss case thats with an undamaged TV of similar specification  to the one 
that was stolen. 
This service has a long established approach in circumstances such as these where  theres 
a dispute about a cash settlement offered by an insurer. That approach  is that if the insurer 
only offers  a cash settlement, the amount  they offer should reflect the cost to the consumer 
of replacing an item. If the offer reflects the cost to the insurer  and, like here, thats lower 
than the cost to the consumer  then that wont indemnify the consumer because  the 
consumer wont be able to get a replacement  for the amount offered.  
Ref: DRN62772923I appreciate that the policy terms allow Aviva to choose how to settle the claim,  that one of 
those options  is by paying cash and that they say Aviva can cash  settle at its suppliers own 
rates. But I dont think its fair for Aviva  to settle  Miss Ss claim in a way that wont indemnify 
her. As its Aviva thats choosing to settle  the claim by cash, then it is only fair to expect it to 
take into account what itll cost Miss S to buy a replacement TV of the same quality as the 
one that was stolen. As Aviva isnt offering to replace the TV on a like for like basis, the cost 
it could do so for is irrelevant. 
It is my understanding that the model  of TV stolen  is no longer available.  That means that 
the nearest currently equivalent should  be used as the basis  for settlement 
I dont think that Aviva  handled Miss Ss claim particularly well and I can see that she was 
put to some  avoidable  inconvenience and upset. In particular,  Miss S has said she was 
upset to be accused of not residing at the house,  at having to repeatedly call Aviva to chase 
settlement, at the piecemeal way her claim was settled and the fact that settlement was only 
increased because  she challenged it. 
I can also see that, despite the production  by Miss S of a detailed loss list, Aviva under-
offered settlement on Miss Ss stolen perfume. The loss list contained values for all the items 
that came  to over £1,000 yet Aviva only offered Miss S £357 meaning she was put to the 
inconvenience of having to argue for an increase. And Ive listened  to the call between 
Miss S and Avivas customer  service department and I note that Aviva  was empathetic and 
apologetic about the way Miss S was treated throughout  the claim. 
For all the avoidable  trouble and upset Miss S was put to I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to pay her compensation of £150. Such an amount  is in line with this 
services approach to compensation  awards generally and is, I think, fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Finally, Miss S has said she would like interest  added to the settlement amount she received 
from the date she first complained up to now. Im not minded  to agree with her that an award 
of interest is fair in the circumstances. Typically interest is awarded  when  a consumer has 
been left financially out of pocket because they have  been unfairly treated by a business.  Im 
not persuaded that thats the case for Miss S. The claim was made in December  2018  and 
settled by April 2019 and Aviva was entitled  to validate the claim. I can see that there were 
numerous items of jewellery that were  stolen and which needed valuing, so I can understand 
why the settlement offer took a little longer  to be paid but I dont think  unreasonably so. But if 
Miss S has evidence that she has been left financially  out of pocket as a consequence of 
any unfairness at the hand of Aviva then she should  provide me with evidence  of it in 
response to this provisional decision  and Ill consider it.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and to require Aviva Insurance Limited to settle Miss Ss 
claim for her stolen  television  based  on the cost to her of replacing  it with the nearest 
equivalent model currently available. I also intend to require it to pay her compensation of 
£150 for the avoidable trouble an upset it caused  her when handling her claim. 
Miss S replied  to say she accepted my provisional decision. Aviva replied and made the 
following points:
Ref: DRN62772924It said it accepted  my award  of £150  as compensation for the trouble and upset caused  
to Miss S in the handling of its claim;
It disagreed with my provisional findings  about  the settlement of the TV. It said normally, 
if an item was no longer  available  it would look at indemnifying  the policyholder based on 
the next equivalent (normally better)  model;
That it should be given the opportunity to replace the TV from its own supplier or to cash 
settle it based on what it wouldve cost it to replace it. It said this would involve it being 
able to take advantage of discounts made available by its own supplier;
That it shouldnt be made to settle  the claim for the TV based on the retail  price of the 
nearest equivalent  model because this would cost it more  which wouldnt be treating its 
customers fairly.
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Miss S has accepted my provisional decision that Aviva has accepted the 
compensation aspect  of my provisional  award. So my provisional  findings in respect of 
compensation now form part of this, my final decision. 
Ive considered what Aviva has said about the settlement for the TV and its not persuaded 
me to alter the findings  I made provisionally. Thats because all the comments  Aviva  has 
provided were made by it prior to my provisional decision being  issued  so have been 
considered by me already.  
Aviva has elected to cash settle  this claim.  I understand  it has already paid Miss S a cash  
amount for it. And this complaint is about  a dispute  about the amount Aviva  has paid. 
Having elected  to cash settle, it wouldnt now be fair for Aviva  to revoke that cash settlement, 
ask Miss S to repay the amount  it had paid her and then to replace  the TV using one of its 
own suppliers because  that is what it now prefers to do. Having already selected the method 
of indemnity Im unable  to agree it would now be reasonable to alter it because Aviva 
believes it would cost it less to do so.  
I set out provisionally  why I didnt think it was fair, in the circumstances of this claim,  for 
Aviva to base its cash settlement on what it wouldve cost it to replace the TV. Aviva hasnt 
said anything in response to my provisional decision, or provided  me with any new evidence,  
thats caused me to change my mind  about  it. I appreciate that all insurers are able to 
access discounts from their own suppliers but Ive explained why I didnt think the fact Aviva  
could do so here was relevant to the settlement of Miss Ss claim for the TV. So I agree it will 
now cost Aviva more to settle  the TV based  on the retail price  of the nearest equivalent. 
As things  stand, Miss S hasnt been properly indemnified for the loss of her TV. Obviously  
Aviva couldve  offered to replace it with the nearest equivalent model (and availed itself of its 
suppliers discount  in the process) at an earlier point in the claim but it chose not to. It chose 
to cash settle the claim so, for the reasons I gave provisionally along with those in the 
preceding few paragraphs, it must do so based on the cost to Miss S of replacing  the TV 
from a retailer. That way Miss S will have been  treated fairly.
Ref: DRN62772925my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to settle  
Miss Ss claim for her stolen television based  on the cost to her of replacing  it with the 
nearest equivalent  model currently available. I also require it to pay her compensation of 
£150 for the avoidable trouble an upset it caused  her when handling her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6277292