K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  cancelled his van insurance policy from the 
outset.
background
In March 2017, Mr R took out a van insurance policy with Ageas after using an online 
comparison web site. The policy was in relation to van 1. Mr R used van 1 but it was leased 
by a limited company that gave work to Mr R, which he did on a self-employed  basis.  
In January 2018, Mr R had an accident whilst driving van 1 and made  a claim against his 
policy. Later that month, he changed his van to van 2 and informed Ageas of the change. 
In February 2018,  Ageas  cancelled the policy from the outset and instructed the broker to 
refund to Mr R the premiums paid in relation to the policy. Ageas said that when Mr R 
applied for the policy, he said that he was the owner and registered keeper of van 1 but that 
wasnt the case, as van 1 was leased by a limited company. Ageas said that if it had known 
the true position, it wouldnt have offered Mr R cover.
I understand that Mr R arranged insurance for van 2 with another insurer.  Mr R had to 
arrange for van 1 to be recovered to a director of the company that leases van 1. Hes 
concerned that hell have  to pay for the damage to van 1 and the other  car involved in the 
accident. 
Mr R says that Ageas didnt mention  that there was anything wrong with his policy on the 
other occasions he contacted it  on his initial claim and when he later changed his van. He 
says that he told Ageas  that van 1 was leased.  He says that he has dyslexia and struggles to 
make sense of written text. Mr R says that he had no intention to deceive or give incorrect  
information and that its unfair that Ageas has cancelled his policy.  
Our investigator didnt  think that Ageas had treated Mr R unfairly. He said it asked him clear 
questions about  the owner and registered  keeper of van 1 when  he took out the policy and 
Mr Rs answers  werent correct. The investigator said that Ageas  wouldnt have  offered  Mr R 
cover if he had answered accurately. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he hadnt  looked at all of the points hed 
made. Mr R said:
Theres no mention in the terms and conditions that insurance wouldnt  be offered to 
sub-contractors. 
He cant remember how he applied for the policy but there may well have been pre 
populated answers.
The other driver caused  the accident  and he shouldnt be liable. 
Van 1 shouldnt have been written off. 
A director of the limited company that gives him work and which  leases van 1 told 
him to insure it but the lease  company says that only the director should insure van 1 
and that Mr R should be a named driver under the policy.
Ref: DRN67661622Our investigator said that his investigation focused on whether or not Ageas acted fairly in 
cancelling Mr Rs policy from the outset.  He said that insurers  and brokers  dont disclose 
underwriting criteria in terms and conditions. The investigator said that Mr R bought the 
policy online  and even  if the answers were  pre populated, it was his responsibility  to ensure 
the answers were  accurate. He said that, as the policy is cancelled  from the outset, he 
couldnt comment on the claim itself. The investigator suggested that Mr R seek  independent  
legal advice about his position.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, Mr Rs complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
In this decision, Im looking at whether  Ageas treated  Mr R fairly in cancelling his policy from 
the outset. I cant decide  who was responsible for the accident or what Mr Rs position  is in 
relation to the director of the limited  company who leased van 1 or the other driver in the 
accident. As the investigator said, Mr R should seek advice about that and he may wish to 
begin at Citizens  Advice:  citizensadvice.org.uk.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr R has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed  submissions to support his complaint.  Ive read all this carefully and taken  
it all into consideration  when making  my decision.  I trust that Mr R wont  take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus  on what I consider to be the central issue:  that is, whether 
Ageas treated him unfairly in cancelling his policy  from the outset. 
When Mr R took out the policy in March 2017, he had a duty - under the Insurance Act 2015 
- to make a fair presentation of the risk. That means Mr R had to disclose everything he 
knew or ought to have  known that would  influence Ageas in deciding whether to offer a 
policy or its terms, or enough information to put Ageas on notice that it needed to make  
further enquiries about potentially material circumstances. Its for Ageas to show  that Mr R 
didnt make a fair presentation of the risk and that, instead, he made whats  described in the 
Insurance Act as a qualifying  breach. 
At the time Mr R took out the policy, Ageas asked him, amongst other  things, whether he 
owned van 1 and whether  he was its registered  keeper.  I think  that those  questions  were 
clear and straightforward. They  required  a yes  or no answer. Mr R answered  yes to both 
questions. If he had answered no in relation to ownership of the van, there was a 
drop-down box to enable  him to choose  from various options  about  ownership.   
Ageas or its agent sent Mr R a statement  of insurance which  he was asked to read and 
check. That document said that Mr R was the sole owner and registered keeper of van 1. 
Mr R didnt correct that. 
I dont think Mr R made a fair presentation  about  the owner and registered keeper of 
van 1 at the time he took out the policy. He said, incorrectly, that he was its owner and 
registered keeper.  Ageas  has shown that if it had known the true position it wouldnt have 
offered Mr R the policy. In those  circumstances, Ageas is entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy 
from the outset. I dont think it acted unfairly  in doing so here.  
Ref: DRN67661623Ive noted what  Mr R says about  his difficulty reading text. I think the onus was on Mr R to 
ask for assistance and I havent seen that he did so. 
Mr R says that some of the answers may have been pre-populated.  Even if that was the 
case, the onus  was still on Mr R to make sure that the answers were accurate. 
Ageas isnt obliged to make its underwriting criteria available  to Mr R when  he took out the 
policy. It relied on Mr R to fairly present the risk he was asking it to take,  so that it could 
decide whether  and on what  terms it would provide cover. I dont think  the fact that Ageas 
didnt raise this issue  with Mr R when he first made the claim or when he changed his van 
alters the outcome. As Mr Rs claim progressed, Ageas  made appropriate enquiries and 
came to a decision it was entitled  to come to.  
Ive noted the issues  Mr R has raised  about Ageas handling of the claim and his concerns 
about his liability  towards the company that leases van 1 and the other driver involved in the 
accident. As Ive said above, Im looking at whether Ageas acted unfairly in cancelling Mr Rs 
policy. As Ive concluded that it didnt, I dont go on to look at Mr Rs claim under the policy.  
Ive very sorry to disappoint  Mr R. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that he set out to deliberately 
mislead Ageas but as he didnt give a fair presentation of the risks here, Ageas was entitled  
to cancel his policy from the outset. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6766162