K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined part of a claim made under his 
property insurance  policy  and that theyve  taken too long to resolve other  elements  of the 
claim.
Background
Mr C has a property insurance  policy with Aviva.
He lives in a tenement building. The tenements are arranged in a horseshoe  shape. The 
ground floor is given over to commercial premises, with flats from the first floor upwards.
The in-fill of the horseshoe  had a building at ground  floor level, used for commercial  
purposes. The roof of that building was used as a back court by residents in the tenements. 
Under an agreement  dating back some  considerable time, they had access to the roof and 
were entitled  to use it as a common open space.
In 2011, a wall in that building  collapsed, taking a small  part of the back  court with it. The 
local authority inspected the premises  and decided there was a danger of further  collapse,  
so they demolished the building. This left the back walls of the commercial properties  on the 
ground floor exposed - and removed most of the back  court.
Mr C made  a claim under his property insurance policy.  The timeline is complex, but 
essentially, the claim has three parts.
Mr C said the collapse and/or demolition had caused damage  in his bathroom.  He asked 
Aviva to pay for repairs.
He said the demolition had caused the tenements  drains to collapse.  He wanted Aviva  to 
repair the drains - and to pay for alternative accommodation he says he had to find because 
his flat became  uninhabitable.
And he wanted Aviva to affect repairs to the outside of the building so that the back court  
facility was restored  or replaced in a suitable way.
Aviva declined Mr Cs claim relating to the drains. And they have yet to resolve the issues 
relating to the replacement of the back court.
Mr C complained to Aviva, but they didnt uphold it. They  said their decision to decline the 
claim for the drains was correct. And they said the issues  with the back  court were complex 
given the number of interested parties, so they werent responsible  for the delays.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Aviva  had done anything  wrong. He thought their decision to decline the 
claim for the drains was reasonable. And he thought  they couldnt be blamed for the delays 
in the restoration of the back court area.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN69035312Having looked  at all the information  I agreed with our investigator that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. But because I came  to that conclusion for different reasons, I issued a 
provisional decision to allow  both parties to comment  on my thinking before making a final 
decision. A final decision is the Financial  Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were three elements to Mr Cs claim.  Aviva  have paid for the repairs to Mr Cs 
bathroom, to everyones satisfaction. So, I neednt comment on that aspect of the 
claim. Ill deal with the drains and the restoration of the back  court below - and in that 
order.
The drains
Mr C says waste collected in one of the ground  floor shops and caused  an 
unbearable smell. He says sewage  and waste began to come up through  the pipes  
into his flat. And he says he had to move out - in 2013 - because the flat became 
uninhabitable.
He didnt tell Aviva hed left the flat until 2016. And they say when their loss adjustor 
went to the flat to carry out an inspection, all the facilities  were  in order  - including  the 
water and drains - and the flat was inhabitable.
Mr Cs policy  covers damage  to his property, but there are a number of exclusions. 
These are clearly set out in the policy documents.
Under the heading Exceptions, the policy terms say Aviva will not cover:
Damage caused  by or consisting of
(a) an existing or hidden defect
(b) gradual deterioration or wear and tear
(c) faulty design  or faulty materials used in its construction
(d) ....
(e) faulty workmanship
By contrast,  the policy does cover damage caused by a specific accident  or insured 
event. Mr C says the damage to the drains  was caused by the demolition  of the 
commercial building  under the back court. He says this was carried out poorly - and 
the weight of the former roof falling to the floor and/or the weight of the debris  left on 
the site has caused the underground drains  to collapse under the pressure.
Ref: DRN69035313Aviva say the problems  with the drains werent reported until around two years  after 
the demolition. Mr C says that doesnt mean the demolition didnt cause  the issue.  He 
thinks the waste going into the drains may have been backing up through the 
system and/or finding a way out over that period. And the problem  only became 
chronic once the system was full and waste began to come  back  up through the 
pipes in the flats.
I accept that Mr C may have a point about the time the problem might  take to 
manifest itself fully. However, in declining the claim,  Aviva havent relied solely on the 
argument that the demolition cant have caused  the problem because  theres  too long 
between the events.
Theyve relied on evidence from experts whove examined the drains. Weve been 
made aware  of three experts whove inspected the drains to try to identify the cause 
of the problem.
The first - who visited the site in 2012 - said the issue wasnt  caused by a collapse of 
the drains. He said the pipework had multiple  connections, with pipes of different 
bores coming together.  He said this made  the drainage system liable to blockages. 
And this was compounded by the effect  of scale  build up in the drains over time. He 
concluded that any connection between the on-going  issues  and the demolition was 
unfounded.
A second inspection  was carried out by a different  expert in 2013.  Their report said 
there were no reported problems before  2011 and so there was a suspicion that the 
issues might  be connected to the demolition.
However, when they were  asked for clarification,  the experts  admitted their CCTV 
inspection hadnt  been able to go far enough  into the drains to establish that there 
had been a collapse. And they said they couldnt confirm the cause of the issues  
definitively without excavation of the drains.
Inspections were also carried out by the Local Authoritys Environmental Services 
teams experts in 2016. They  had access to most of the affected flats.  Their CCTV 
surveys found no collapse  in the drains and they concluded the issues were caused 
by gradual scaling up of the pipes.
Taking that expert  evidence into account,  I cant conclude that Avivas decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable.  The existing evidence seems  to suggest the 
issue with the drains  is most likely a result of gradual build-up of scale,  possibly 
combined with poor or outdated  design.
In the absence of any persuasive  evidence to the contrary, I dont think  Aviva  were 
unfair or unreasonable in concluding that the problems with the drains werent  
caused by the insured event (the demolition) but were gradual and/or related to the 
ageing state of the drains. And so werent  covered  by the policy.
If further information comes to light once the repairs and restoration  are carried  out  
particularly if the drains  are excavated  as part of that work  - then Id expect  Aviva  to 
take that into account and review their decision. But as things stand, I cant conclude  
theyve done anything wrong  in declining Mr Cs claim  relating to the drains.
Ref: DRN69035314The back  court
Our investigator said that Aviva werent  to blame for the time its taken to resolve the 
issues around the repairs and restoration of the back court  area. I dont necessarily 
disagree with that.
At the very least,  looking  at the evidence we have,  it appears this was an 
extraordinarily complex situation.
The owners of the commercial property which collapsed  disappeared. The ownership 
of the land was unclear. The Local Authority were  involved, in an attempt to restore 
damage caused by their demolition of the building.
And there are many owners of the ground floor commercial premises  and the flats 
above who have  an interest in the restoration.  Thats  not to mention their insurers.  
Aviva insured Mr C and some other interested parties, but others were insured 
elsewhere.
Aviva appear to have  been very active  in trying to bring all these parties  together  to 
agree a solution, which is to their credit. That said, I can appreciate why Mr C is 
frustrated and annoyed that theres still no work on the site around  nine years  after 
the event.
However, I dont think Mr Cs interest  in the back court area is covered by his policy.  
Ill explain  why, but clearly if Im right it wouldnt be for us to comment  on Avivas 
handling of - or involvement in - the discussions about the restoration  of the back 
court.
In the definitions section, Mr Cs policy says Aviva will provide cover as follows:
We will indemnify you in respect  of Damage occurring  during the period  of 
Insurance at The Premises."
The Premises are defined  as:
Buildings including...
walls, gates, fences, yards....
...patios, terraces....
.. .belonging to You of for which you are responsible at the premises specified  
in the schedule.
The schedule says the premises in this case are Mr Cs address.
Mr C doesnt own the back  court - or any part of it. And hes not responsible  for it 
(which he will no doubt regard as a good  thing  under  the current circumstances).  It 
isnt part of the address that he owns (his flat). Im not here to determine legal rights, 
but I believe he has a right of access to it and a right to use it. But it doesnt belong to 
him and it isnt part of his premises.
That being  the case, I cant see that its covered by his policy  with Aviva.  And clearly 
therefore, its not for us to get into the detail of how Aviva have handled the 
negotiations and planning around the restoration of the back  court.
Ref: DRN69035315If either  Mr C or Aviva have any information  or evidence to suggest  my logic and 
reasoning is flawed - or that Ive misunderstood  any of the facts - they have an 
opportunity now to make that clear in response  to this provisional decision.
And for those reasons,  I said I was minded  not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
The responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva responded to my provisional  decision  to say that they had nothing to add.
Mr C responded in some detail. Ill try to summarise  his arguments below. Mr C will no doubt 
understand that this is a summary  rather than an attempt to repeat exactly  everything  hes 
said.
Mr C is still concerned about the level of communication  hes had from Aviva.  He thinks they 
havent kept him fully informed about  the progress of the claim.  Hes also made a Data 
Protection subject  access request  to Aviva and he thinks theyve not answered this correctly.
Mr C says he told the loss adjuster he was leaving his flat in 2013  and made them aware  he 
wasnt staying there  on several  occasions  before 2016, when Aviva said hed first told them  
he wasnt living there.
The Drains
Mr C thinks the Local  Authoritys Environmental  Services Teams report shouldnt be taken  
into account when  I look at the expert reports on the case.  He says they work for the Local 
Authority, which may be legally liable if its established that there was damage to the drains 
caused by their demolition of the ground  floor commercial premises.
He also says the first expert referred to in my provisional decision visited the site again in 
May 2013. He says they concluded  on that occasion that there might be a drain blockage 
under the demolition site.
Mr C thinks the experts explanations  of the blockage  that it was caused by scaling and/or 
poor design of the pipework  is unfounded. He says Scotland  has soft water and scaling 
couldnt block a main pipe. And he thinks the different bores in the pipes always  went from 
narrower to wider, so cant  have  caused  a blockage.
He maintains the key report is from the second expert I refer to in my provisional decision. 
He says they concluded the drains  appeared to now run uphill at one point  which they put 
down to ground movement, possibly caused  by the demolition.
Mr C also picks up my statement in the provisional  decision  that Aviva should  re-visit the 
claim if later works show there was a blockage caused by the demolition. He says this shows 
Aviva cant  prove conclusively the damage  wasnt caused by an insured event. And he 
believes the onus  is on them  to prove  that if they arent going to accept  the claim.
And Mr C thinks  Aviva  should have been  more proactive in resolving the drainage issues  
more quickly. Hes also concerned about  the current plans for renovation.  He says the Local 
Authority and Aviva say any drainage issues will be resolved as the renovations  to the back  
court area are carried out, but he says they wont commit  to that in writing.
Ref: DRN69035316The back  court
Mr C doesnt accept  that the circumstances around  this claim are as complex as I suggested 
in my provisional decision  for example, the owners  of the commercial premises on the 
ground floor have been actively involved  in discussions  to try to resolve the issues,  rather 
than having disappeared.
He thinks Aviva havent been as proactive as I said theyd been  and that he and others  
have been instrumental in moving  discussions forward.
He also says the flats owners had responsibility for the stairs, fences and bin shelters  on the 
back court.  And that Aviva have  refused  to share  the legal  opinion  theyve obtained 
regarding ownership  of the back court. He says the Local Authoritys view that they need 
agreement from all the owners before proceeding with renovations suggests the flat owners 
have legal rights  and responsibilities  as regards the back court area.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive carefully considered  the 
comments Mr C has made on my provisional decision.
I know this will disappoint Mr C but I havent changed my mind. I still think his complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain  why.
Mr C told our investigator about his concerns about  the communication from Aviva.  We 
asked Aviva to update  Mr C regularly and they agreed to do so. 
Its entirely understandable  that Aviva  are awaiting the outcome of this complaint case 
before they set up processes to ensure they keep Mr C regularly updated. But for the sake  of 
complete clarity, once  this case is resolved, Id expect Aviva  to be in touch with Mr C to let 
him know their plans to keep him regularly updated in future.
I understand Mr C has made  a complaint  to the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) 
about Avivas response to his subject access request. Im sure the ICO will deal with that 
complaint appropriately and they are best-placed to do so.
As regards  Mr Cs assertion that he told the Loss Adjuster he was leaving the flat in 2013, 
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr C says  although it appears that message may not have 
got back to Aviva.
If I were  suggesting Aviva  pay for Mr Cs alternative accommodation, the date at which  he 
moved out  and when he told Aviva  would  be very significant in terms of my setting out 
the redress. 
However, Im not. Im concluding Aviva  have acted fairly and reasonably so far in declining 
Mr Cs claim.  So the exact date on which  he may or may not have  moved out becomes 
irrelevant  for the purposes of this decision at least.  I realise of course that its hugely 
significant for Mr C and I dont wish to sound  as if Im downplaying the effect these events 
have had on him. 
Ref: DRN69035317The Drains
I can understand Mr Cs concerns about  the expert  report from the Local Authoritys 
Environmental Services  team.  Although  I wouldnt  question their integrity, no-one could 
suggest they were  entirely independent.
I have to ask Mr C to understand that I have  to look at their reports in the wider  context. 
Although not entirely independent, theyve put forward a cogent and feasible  explanation for 
the issues with the drains, having  carried out a detailed inspection.  
That explanation  which says there is likely  no connection with the demolition  tallies  with 
the opinion given by one of the two independent  experts.
That independent expert did visit the site again  after their first report  - in response to an 
escape of water in the ground  floor premises. Mr C is right to say they concluded  at that 
point that there may be a blockage in the drain  underneath the demolition site. 
However, they werent able to come to any firm conclusion  or to resolve the immediate issue  
and recommended the Loss Adjustor visit the site with the property management company 
for the tenement  in question. 
That visit took place  immediately. And further  investigations appeared to show  that the 
escape of water was the result of an issue with a downpipe outside  the ground  floor 
premises. 
The Loss  Adjuster and the property management  company  who if anything  have the same  
interests as Mr C in seeing  the drainage issues resolved  agreed that this particular issue  
would be dealt with in a separate claim, unconnected to the claim relating to the collapse of 
eth back court and the demolition.
So, I dont think the drainage experts suggestion about possible causes of the later escape  
of water invalidate or call into question their earlier and more  detailed  report on the situation. 
The second  expert I referred to in my provisional decision initially  said there might be a 
connection between  the issues with the drains  and the demolition. But when questioned 
further they said they couldnt reach any firm conclusion. This is clear  from Avivas 
contemporaneous notes of  and reports of  that conversation.
Mr C has gone into an admirable level of detail as to why he thinks the explanation of the 
problems with the drains offered by the first expert   and by the Environmental Services 
team  isnt feasible. 
However, I have to ask Mr C to understand that its not for me to determine  now precisely 
what went wrong with the drains. I couldnt do that even if I wanted to  which  is why my 
provisional decision allowed that Aviva should  review the claim if further  evidence  comes to 
light. 
My role is to determine whether Aviva  acted reasonably in the way they handled Mr Cs 
claim. And Aviva have gathered the expert reports, weighed the evidence in them  and 
decided, on balance, that the issues are likely  to be unrelated to the demolition.  Given  what 
the expert reports say, I cant conclude  Avivas decision  about the claim is unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN69035318Mr C believes  if Aviva are to decline his claim,  there is an onus  on them  to prove 
conclusively that the damage to the drains  wasnt the result of an insured peril. Im afraid 
thats not quite  right.  
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show,  on the balance  of 
probabilities, that an insured event caused the damage (its not on the insurer to show  that it 
didnt). But, when  an insurer wants to apply an exclusion  and so decline a claim, the onus is 
on them  to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion applies.
In this case, Aviva arent applying a policy exclusion. Theyre saying the evidence  - from the 
experts - suggests the damage  wasnt caused  by an insured peril.  As I say, given the 
experts opinions,  thats not an unreasonable conclusion for Aviva  to reach.
The Back Court
I understand Mr Cs point about  the flats owners  having some responsibility for the stairs, 
fences and bin shelters in the back court.
I dont think that means they owned the back court  or were  responsible  for it more  
generally. I think they had rights  to use the space   and in return, obligations  about  how they 
used it. But that doesnt amount to ownership.
And so, for the reasons Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr Cs 
right to use it means his policy covered the back court. In fact, Im satisfied it didnt. The back  
court was not part of Mr Cs property and not part of the premises covered by the policy.
That being  the case, all of the arguments and discussion about how complex  the situation 
was, who caused  the delays and who was most  active in trying to move  towards  a resolution 
for the space where the commercial premises once stood become irrelevant in terms of this 
decision.
Summary
As I said in my provisional decision,  I can entirely  understand Mr Cs annoyance and 
frustration that the situation has not yet been  satisfactorily resolved many  years after the 
event. 
Im also aware that Mr C has been suffering health  problems at the same time as these 
events have been on-going. Taken  altogether that must have made  for an extremely difficult 
time for Mr C. Im sorry that hes had this experience. And I hope he makes  a full and lasting 
recovery from his health problems.
I have to be impartial and absolutely fair to both parties, however. And given the evidence  
we have, I cant conclude  that Aviva  have done  anything wrong in the way theyve handled 
Mr Cs claim under his policy.
Ref: DRN69035319My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6903531