K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the support  provided  by Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited for his Self 
Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) wasnt fit for purpose.
background
Mr S said the information supplied  by Aviva about  his SIPP was inaccurate. In particular 
returns appeared consistently overstated;  his homepage  showed only two policies when he 
had three,  a loss correction was shown in his cash  transactions but he hadnt  been notified 
of any errors, his homepage had missing  values. Hed filed a complaint using the online 
system on 31/1/2019  but it then took three  calls to get through  to the correct department. He 
said when Aviva were first aware  of the systemic errors they shouldve made him aware and 
certainly after his complaint.  
He said the suggestion of huge returns on his account remained in April 2019.  While Aviva 
said he hadnt suffered  a loss he said the information had made financial planning very 
difficult as the information  could be misleading,  which Aviva acknowledged.  He said that in 
April 2019 his 3 policies were still not showing.  He suffered from ill health and he said their 
failure to investigate properly wasnt helping that. He said he hadnt  been informed of the 
deal between Aviva  and his financial adviser.  The explanation of the loss being due to a 
switch made  no sense, how could the sale of an asset at £100 be shown as a loss of £100?  
He hadnt received quarterly valuations and the links to some  of the fund factsheets  were out 
of date.
Aviva said that
The percentage figures shown on the performance screen  were  incorrect (in one 
period between mid 2017 and early  2019  the actual return was around 23% but the 
account showed around 82%). It had raised this with its platform provider. It 
accepted that the figures could  be misleading  but apologised and said Mr S hadnt  
suffered any loss. It sent an updated report with the correct figures and contacted  Mr 
Ss financial adviser.
It accepted there had been issues with My Aviva not showing all policies. It had 
checked the position and thought  it was now resolved.
It said it had an arrangement with Mr Ss IFA to apply a lower  management  charge to 
his policy. The wrong reduction had been  applied but had now been corrected.
It was concerned that Mr S didnt feel information on the homepage was clear and 
noted his comments.
It reviewed  the screen shots Mr S provided from 31 July 2018 and 13 February  2019  
it thought the cash element of the pre retirement account was correct as reflected  his 
shares figure. It said a loss was shown because Mr S had done an investment 
switch.
It accepted it didnt receive the original complaint.
It apologised and sent £200 to his bank account.
Ref: DRN69031712It said the issue of no quarterly investment reports had been raised after the first 
complaint and had now been  set up as a new complaint. It was aware of the issue  
but hoped  it would be fixed within the next week or so. The investment reports were  
supplied by the fund managers  and not under its control.  It said fees were  
contractual and it wouldnt  refund these.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. I said the following.
I needed to consider whether Aviva  made  a mistake.  It was clear there were problems with 
the accuracy and completeness of information  on Avivas website, which it accepted.  The 
presentation of accurate and complete information  must be fundamental to the relationship 
between Aviva and Mr S. The regulator rules required Aviva to act honestly fairly and 
professionally. I thought  the way it responded to the problems with its website and its failure 
to take any steps  to warn Mr S, remedy the problem or provide other sources of information 
dont demonstrate compliance with this principle.
I noted that Aviva said it was aware of the issue but couldnt  do anything about  it. I didnt 
think that was acceptable.  If it was aware  the information it was providing was incomplete  or 
inaccurate it couldve warned Mr S. It could also have issued correct  or corrected information 
in written form or advised Mr S that such information  would be provided on request. But it 
didnt. I think it was a mistake not to and in breach of the regulations. 
I noted also that Avivas  terms and conditions say in section 21 that it will provide transaction 
information, statements  and confirmation  which can be viewed online. But that didnt seem  to 
have been the case. Avivas brochure also said you can go online and see instant 
valuations but sadly those werent accurate.
As I was of the view that Aviva made a mistake  I needed to consider whether  Mr S suffered 
any loss or distress and inconvenience. Where there is a mistake the aim is to put Mr S back 
in the position he wouldve been in but for the mistake.
It is difficult to identify  any loss that Mr S mightve suffered as we cannot be certain what he 
wouldve done differently. Mr S hasnt presented any evidence  that he had asked his IFA to 
advise on investment and the issues with Aviva prevented him from implementing  advice.  So 
it doesnt seem that he has suffered financial loss due to failing to make  investment 
decisions about his investments. However  I accept that the incomplete and incorrect  
information wouldve  made decision making difficult and that is something I have taken into 
account in my award for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S also commented that recent information  about  corrections to his account didnt show  all 
the corrections  that had been made and several were missing. It seemed  that errors were  
still being found. Mr S remained  concerned he still didnt have certainty about the final 
position on his account. I think Aviva  should  liaise with Mr S to understand the differences  he 
highlights and then it should audit the movements on his account to make  sure they are 
correct. If this audit shows there  is a loss this should be paid to Mr S. It would be helpful if 
this is completed before  I issue my final decision.
I think that Mr S was paying  for a service but not receiving all that was paid for. While Mr Ss 
investments may have  remained safely invested he wasnt able to confirm  that or gather 
reliable information  about performance  and value to inform his decisions. Such  information  is 
in my view fundamental  to the relationship between Aviva and Mr S. So I think  it is 
Ref: DRN69031713appropriate that he should receive a refund of fees that he was paying Aviva  to supply its 
services under the contract. As it was also holding the investments I think  it is appropriate 
that he should be refunded 75% of the fees from mid 2017,  when  Mr S suggests  the errors 
of over stated returns started to appear, through to the date he transferred out of the pension  
in 2019. 
I dont have details  of the charges levied  on Mr Ss account from mid 2017  to the date he 
transferred out. Before  I issue my final decision I invite the parties to submit any evidence 
they have for these  charges and the amount they believe was charged at the time.
I have considered an award  for distress  and inconvenience. This is intended  to compensate  
for the impact on Mr S not to punish Aviva. I have already  mentioned the decision making 
impact of the inaccurate and incomplete information. I note also that Mr S complained that 
Aviva offered no practical  support despite being aware of the issue. I think this mustve  been 
frustrating from Mr S and his health cannot  have helped. I think the impact was moderate 
and I think an award  of £350 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I note 
however that Aviva  has already paid £200 and this should be deducted from this amount.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should 
pay Mr S:
75% of the charges made to Mr Ss pension  account from mid 2017 to the date he 
transferred out of his pension with Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  
Such amount  (if any) as is required to correct Mr Ss account if the audit of the 
account demonstrates Mr S has suffered  a loss.
A further  £150  in respect  of distress and inconvenience.
Mr S accepted my decision. He also added that Aviva had been in touch to say around £300  
extra had been paid into his account from an investment error  two years ago. Aviva 
explained that for around two and a half months in 2018 there had been a systemic dealing 
error.
Aviva said it regretted the errors on the platform in 2018. It accepted that Mr S wouldnt have  
been able to see all three of his accounts because his profile  hadnt  been completed fully. It 
apologised for the distress caused.  It was sorry if Mr S thought  it hadnt been  transparent  by 
not writing to customers to notify them of the issues. It didnt think it was in breach of any 
regulations. It was an advised  platform  and it had worked closely  with advisers  and the 
regulator to make sure no one was disadvantaged.  It said mass notification  wasnt possible 
as not all customers suffered a detriment. Where a customer  benefited it wasnt seeking to 
recover that benefit. However it was committed to ensuring customers were  restored  
correctly. It provided details of the audit it had undertaken  on Mr Ss account.
It estimated  that Mr S had paid fees of around  £2,000 since the platform  migration started in 
January 2018  and provided a detailed spreadsheet. 
It didnt think a partial refund of charges was the correct approach. It felt an award for 
distress and inconvenience was a better approach. It said that because the issues  related  to 
poor service and the charges were part of the contract with the customer and covered the 
cost of access to the platform which was always  available to him. The main problem was the 
information feed and not the platform.  Mr S couldve got information from his IFA or called 
Ref: DRN69031714Aviva. Either  way his IFA was best placed to help him make an informed decision about  
investment as this was an adviser  led platform.  
Because of the issues affecting  Mr Ss account  and the time it had taken instead of a partial 
refund it proposed a further £500 on top of the £200  it had already paid.
Mr S commented on the reply from Aviva. He said that:-
He didnt see why he would ask his IFA to get information from Aviva when he could 
ask direct. His IFA was there  to give him advice not collect information for him. He 
also said some  information shouldve been  provided automatically but wasnt  e.g. 
valuations it wasnt his responsibility  to perform  duties placed on Aviva itself.
He didnt accept  the offer of £500 and thought the proposal  in the provisional 
decision was reasonable.
He noted Aviva finally accepted that only two of his three accounts were  displayed.
He noted Aviva disagreed that it had not been transparent but accepted  it didnt keep 
him informed  this was a clear admission of guilt. He said Aviva implied the 
regulator authorised the secrecy. He said had he been informed he wouldve moved 
his account two years ago. 
He was disappointed by the lack of detail in the audit and the timeliness of 
completion of transactions. He wasnt confident of the content but felt he would  have 
to accept it was comprehensive  and accurate even  though it didnt provide enough 
detail to enable  him to check it. 
He thought the estimate of fees was probably correct  for the period  in question. He 
didnt think the spreadsheet was clear. He also said that prior to migration the 
customer experience  was also poor.
He regretted that Aviva  seemed to be dragging  things out by denial,  diversion, minimisation  
and secrecy regarding  its shortcomings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not changed my 
mind for the reasons  given below.
Aviva doesnt think it was in breach of any regulations.  But I dont agree, as I indicated  in my 
provisional decision it is required  to act fairly, honestly  and professionally.  I dont think  it did 
because the information provided  wasnt accurate and up to date. Aviva accepts that in at 
least one respect (the provision of information about  all three  accounts  wasnt presented). I 
note what it says about mass notification but still think it wouldve helped Mr S to be warned. 
However even if I am wrong in my conclusions about the regulations I remain of the view 
that it was acting in breach of contract  because it wasnt complying with its own terms and 
conditions. I noted  that Avivas  terms and conditions said it would  provide  transaction 
information, statements  and confirmation  which can be viewed online. Its brochure also says 
you can go online and see instant  valuations but sadly those commitments werent met 
Ref: DRN69031715because information  was absent  or incorrect. So even if it isnt in breach of regulations  I 
think it was in breach  of its own terms. So it is clear it has made  a mistake and I am able to 
make an award for any loss and or any distress and inconvenience caused by that mistake.
As Aviva points out I accepted  that there wasnt evidence to show  what Mr S mightve done 
differently with respect to his investments and therefore whether there was any investment 
loss. However as I said Mr S was paying  for a service he wasnt  receiving. I think  the award  
for a refund of charges represents  a financial loss. I dont think it matters  that the cause was 
a problem with the information  feed or as Aviva says a service issue rather  than the platform  
itself. I say that because  correct information  is fundamental to the relationship  between  the 
parties and what was provided  didnt satisfy the contractual obligations. Mr S was therefore 
paying for something he wasnt  receiving.  
The proposed offer by Aviva of a further £500 for distress and inconvenience isnt 
appropriate to compensate for this. I say that because the payment of the charges 
represents a financial loss. An award  for distress and inconvenience isnt intended to 
compensate for financial loss. Distress  and inconvenience is based on the impact on the 
individual and isnt intended as a punishment  for the business nor to reflect  the magnitude of 
any financial  loss. 
For those reasons I think the award of a refund of charges for the period in question is an 
assessment of the financial loss suffered and the appropriate basis to approach the 
assessment and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Based on the indication  of the 
amount of fees provided and Mr Ss statement that this is probably correct,  I will base my 
award on the amount quoted. Seventy five per cent of £2079.18 is £1559.38.
I have reconsidered  the award for distress  and inconvenience and remain of the view that 
the award of a further £150 is fair and reasonable for the reasons already given in my 
provisional decision. 
Mr S comments that he cannot check the audit but Mr S says he feels  he has no choice but 
to accept. Similarly this service cannot check that the audit information is correct.  My final 
direction will have to rely on the information provided. Should it come  to light that the 
information is incorrect it would be open  to Mr S to bring a further complaint. I anticipate also 
that the amount, if any, payable following that audit would include any payment for the 
around £300 error recently disclosed due to migration  issues,  to the extent that amount 
hasnt already been paid.
Ref: DRN69031716my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited:-
£1559.38 in respect of the fees paid by Mr S.
Such amount  (if any) as is required to correct Mr Ss account if the audit of the 
account demonstrates Mr S has suffered  a loss.
A further  £150  in respect  of distress and inconvenience.
The amount  directed to be payable by Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited must  be paid within 
30 days of the later of us notifying The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  Mr S has 
accepted my final decision. 
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited pays later than this it must also pay further interest on 
the compensation from the date of the final decision until the date of payment  at the rate of 
8% simple  per year.
If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited considers it is legally required to deduct income  tax from 
the interest,  it must  send a tax deduction certificate  with the payment so that Mr S can 
reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6903171