K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr E says FICL mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  this complaint. Mr E 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr E says he was unaware  of the PPI and that it was added to his account without his 
knowledge or consent. Ive thought about  this but Ive also seen a copy  of the store card 
application form Mr E saw and signed which included a section for PPI. In this section  
Mr E has signed to agree to the cover. This signature is separate and additional to his 
signature to agree  to the credit. And there is nothing here to indicate that he had to sign 
in this section   so I think Mr E wouldve known he couldve left this section blank if he 
didnt want the PPI.
So based  on what Ive seen I think FICL  made it clear that Mr E didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr E got the information  he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL  had given him better or clearer  information,  I dont think it would 
have made a difference. I still think he would  have  taken out the policy.  I say this 
because Mr E was eligible  for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main  
limitations to the cover, such  as having  a medical condition  of which he was already 
aware.
Mr E has said he was self-employed. Ive looked at the policy  and the terms say that if 
you are self-employed,  in order to make a claim for unemployment your business  must; 
have stopped trading and/or be in the process of being wound  up; or
be put into the hands of an insolvency practitioner; or
be a partnership which has been  or is in the process of being dissolved.
Ref: DRN69916842Based on these terms, I dont think it would be any more  difficult for Mr E to make  a claim 
than he would have  expected  all that was required was for his business  to have 
stopped trading. 
Mr E says the PPI was of no use to him because he had savings at the time which  he 
says would have  covered  the contractual payments.  However,  for £1.00  per £100 of the 
outstanding monthly balance  the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mr Es outstanding 
monthly balance  until he returned  to work or the outstanding balance had been  paid off - 
and this would have been in addition to Mr Es savings. So these savings  wouldve  
remained protected for other essential  expenditure. And as Mr E has told us he would 
have received no sick pay, I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for him.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Mr E has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL  may have  done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6991684