K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy.
background
Mr H took out a policy at the same time as he took out a credit  card in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I explain why below.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H said - that he wasnt aware the PPI was optional  and 
doesnt recall PPI being explained. The credit card application required him to tick the box if 
he wished to apply  for the PPI. The box is ticked on his form. And Mr H signed the form 
which suggests he agreed to its contents. The policy also has been described  as an optional 
feature on the application. So, overall  I think Mr H knew he was taking out PPI and knew  he 
had a choice about doing so, even if he cant remember that now,  many years later.
Mr H told us that he felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have  no doubt this 
represents his best recollection  of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective  area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably  conclude  that Mr H only 
took the policy because he was put under pressure to do so.
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable  for him. I have looked  at Mr Hs circumstances  at the time and I dont 
think it was an unsuitable recommendation. I say this because:
It seems  that Mr H would have been  eligible  for PPI based  on his age and his 
employment and residency status.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr H wouldve been affected by any of the 
main things  policies  like these usually didnt cover  like existing health issues and 
unusual employment  arrangements.  So I dont  think thered have been anything  to 
stop him claiming  the full policy benefit  if hed needed to.
I think Mr H had a need  for the cover this policy  could have provided. I say this 
because Mr H told us he was only entitled  to statutory sick pay and he had only 
modest savings to rely on if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. The PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he was too ill to work or if he lost his job. 
So I think Mr H could have found  the policy useful.
Ref: DRN63792502The policy appears to have been affordable and was comparable to other policies 
which offered similar  benefits  at the time.  
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr H. As well as checking  the policy was right for Mr H, 
Lloyds also had to give him clear  enough  information about the policy  so he could decide if 
he wanted to buy it. Its possible the information  Lloyds  gave  him was not as clear as it 
shouldve been.  However, for the same  reasons I think the policy  was suitable, Im not 
persuaded more  information would have made a difference to his decision to take out the 
PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I make no award  
against Lloyds  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6379250