K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (the bank)  refused his request 
for a fixed  rate loan to repay his credit card account with the bank. 
Mr R has also later complained about the circumstances surrounding his full repayment of 
the credit  card account.
background
Mr R has said that in 2015 he made requests  to the bank for a fixed  rate loan, which  the 
bank unreasonably refused. He wanted  to use the loan to repay  the balance on his credit  
card account, and he could then repay the loan more quickly and more cheaply  than the 
credit card balance.
In 2018 Mr R complained  about the banks refusal  to give him the fixed  rate loan. Mr R said 
that in the intervening three years the credit card balance hadnt  significantly reduced 
because of the interest and charges added to the account. 
Mr R suggested the bank had refused his request for a fixed rate loan because basically it 
made more  money  out of him while he continued with his credit card account.  Mr R said the 
bank had been guilty of irresponsible lending and should write off the credit  card debt. 
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr Rs complaint. It said it wouldnt simply convert the credit  card 
account to a fixed rate loan account. But Mr R was free to apply for a fixed  rate loan, in 
which case his application would be duly considered  by the bank, though  there was no 
guarantee his application  would be successful.
Unhappy with the banks position,  Mr R came  to the ombudsman service. The bank didnt 
consent to us investigating events  earlier than six years ago. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  As Mr R has taken serious exception to how 
the adjudicator  phrased her conclusions and wishes to pursue a separate complaint about 
that, I dont  summarise those conclusions  in any detail here. Suffice  it to say that the 
adjudicator didnt conclude that the bank ought  to have given Mr R a fixed  rate loan in 2015. 
She also concluded the bank had the right to add the interest  and charges to Mr Rs credit  
card account. Mr R didnt accept the adjudicators  conclusions. 
After the adjudicators conclusions, Mr R raised  a further issue. He repaid  his credit card 
account, but he says a mix-up occurred over the payment  reference,  for which  the bank was 
responsible. Mr R says this led to (a) the possibility that further interest would be charged 
and (b) a delay  in the bank communicating with him and confirming the account was closed. 
Mr R submitted the new complaint to the bank, which in turn asked the ombudsman  service 
to deal with the new complaint as part of, or alongside, the existing complaint. 
As Ive said,  Mr R also wishes  to complain about the phrasing of the adjudicators 
conclusions. That complaint isnt for me to investigate, but Mr R understands that he cant  
ask for that complaint  to be looked  into until a final decision (ie this present decision) has 
been reached on his complaint about  the bank. 
Ref: DRN63540212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant deal with the new complaint in this final decision. An ombudsman  cant  reach a final 
decision on a complaint unless there have been prior provisional conclusions.  And in the 
circumstances, I dont  want  to delay the final decision on Mr Rs original complaint.
Regarding the original  complaint  the complaint about the refusal of the fixed  rate loan  Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr R but I dont uphold it. There are two main reasons:
Mr R says he made requests to the bank in 2015 for a fixed rate loan.  The bank says 
it has no record of these requests. Ive seen a copy of the banks account notes, and 
indeed they contain  no reference to Mr R applying for a fixed rate loan in 2015.  Ive 
seen no copy letters or emails  containing requests for a fixed rate loan. That being 
so, I dont think the evidence allows me to conclude that Mr R asked for a fixed rate 
loan in 2015 or that the bank refused such requests.
Credit card customers dont have a right to have their accounts changed to fixed rate 
loans, either directly or indirectly. Its a matter for the banks commercial  judgement  
whether it wishes to grant  a customer a fixed rate loan. The ombudsman  service 
would expect that judgement to be exercised legitimately, but in this case theres 
nothing for the ombudsman service to assess, as the bank didnt consider an 
application for a fixed rate loan in 2015 or give any reasons for refusing  such an 
application.
I dont think this is a case  of irresponsible lending. I dont think the lending has ever been  
unaffordable for Mr R. The interest  and charges that the bank added to the account were  
lawfully added,  and I can see no case for them to be refunded.  Nor, even if it hadnt  now 
been repaid, would I have  seen a case for the account balance to be written  off. 
Finally, in his most recent letter Mr R asked for compensation for the delay in his complaint 
being considered. This decision deals with Mr Rs complaint about the bank. I dont think  the 
bank has been  guilty of any delay in relation to Mr Rs original complaint. 
Ref: DRN63540213my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
If Mr R wishes  to continue with the new complaint, he should confirm  that to us. But that 
wont prevent him from proceeding with his service complaint about the wording of the 
adjudicators conclusions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6354021