K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs W took out in 1998. It was added  to her 
account during  a phone call some  years after taking out the card.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
It doesnt look like FICL  recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check it was 
right for her. But it did have to give Mrs W information about  the PPI that was clear, fair, and 
not misleading  so she could decide  for herself  whether  it was right for her.
The policy excluded any claims resulting from a condition the customer knew about, should 
have known about, or got any advice or treatment for in the 12 months before it started. And 
Mrs W had a condition which wouldnt have been  covered.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs W. Her condition was a potentially serious one, which  
shed had to change her lifestyle for, and shed been  dealing with it for several  years  by the 
time of the sale. Mrs W had to have  regular check-ups with the doctor and, while  she wasnt 
on medication when  it was first diagnosed, this did change.
Further, Mrs Ws condition couldve  lead to a variety  of complications, some very severe. 
And this policy  excluded any claims that resulted  from her condition  which cast quite a 
wide net of things she potentially couldnt  claim for. So Mrs W couldnt have claimed on the 
PPI for everything she wouldve expected to be able to.
It doesnt look like FICL  gave Mrs W clear information about this significant  exclusion at the 
time of the sale. If it had given her clear  enough information, then I think  its most likely she 
wouldnt have bought the PPI. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN61282732So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, FICL can take off any refund Mrs W 
has already received for the commission part of this PPI policy   so that the same  
amount isnt refunded twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6128273