K820x#14complaint
Miss Ks unhappy Bank of Scotland trading as Birmingham  Midshires didnt make it clear  
enough that her credit  file and her ability to get borrowing  elsewhere  would be severely 
impacted by her missing  mortgage  payments or it putting a hold on recovery action.
background
Miss K held a buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. Her monthly  repayment  was 
around £573 and her account balance around  November  2017 was £99,550.32. In 
September 2017, Miss K says she was selling her property so she gave notice to her tenants  
and they found somewhere else to live. Unfortunately, the sale fell through by which point 
her tenants  had already organised alternative  accommodation. So from November 2017, she 
was unable to use her rental income  to meet her repayments. 
Miss K says she got in touch with Birmingham Midshires in November 2017 to explain her 
circumstances. By this time, she had another interested buyer and expected to complete  a 
sale in February 2018. She says Birmingham Midshires  agreed  to give her a payment 
holiday. But she doesnt think it made  it clear  enough that any missed payments  or holds on 
her account  would definitely impact  her credit file or future lending applications. 
Miss K made the November 2017  repayment late and missed  payments due in 
December 2017  and January 2018.  The mortgage was redeemed in March  2018 when 
Miss K sold her property   and the arrears and outstanding balance  were repaid. Shes said 
if shed understood  the impact missed payments would have on her credit file, she wouldve 
done things differently  either  by delaying the sale of her property or using other means  to 
make the mortgage  repayments instead of missing them.
Following the sale of her property, Miss K applied for a residential mortgage to purchase a 
new property around May 2018. But shes said she wasnt able to secure borrowing due to 
the impact of the missed payments on her credit  file. She thinks Birmingham Midshires  
should either remove any adverse markers  from her file or issue  a notice of correction. Shes 
also said she would like Birmingham Midshires to compensate her for the higher amount 
shes had to pay in rent whilst shes been unable to purchase another property.  
Birmingham Midshires has said it hasnt made an error in reporting missed  payments on 
Miss Ks credit file as it has a duty to report things accurately. Its told us it didnt agree to a 
payment holiday  in November 2017   and it wouldnt agree to this as its a buy-to-let  
mortgage. Its said it only agreed to put a hold on collections  orders. In any event, it thinks  it 
made it clear  missing payments would impact  her credit file.
Unhappy with Birmingham Midshires  response, Miss K approached our service. The 
investigator didnt  uphold her complaint as he thought  Birmingham Midshires  had made her 
aware of the potential  impact to her credit file over the phone and in writing. He also thought 
the missed payments had been  recorded  correctly on the credit  file. Miss K didnt agree with 
our investigators assessment so the case  has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
Ref: DRN60265992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about the impact  
Miss Ks said this situation has had on her life. But I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. I know that will come as a disappointment  to Miss K  Ill explain why. 
Credit files are there to provide accurate  information  to lenders to help them make decisions 
about whether  or not to lend money. In this case,  all of the information Ive been given 
suggests Miss K did miss payments on her mortgage account  and made a late payment in 
November 2017.  The question outstanding  for me is whether Birmingham Midshires  did 
enough in this case to make  her aware of the impact  her actions  would have on her credit 
file and her future borrowing.  
Firstly, I think its important to explain to Miss K that theres a difference between a 
contractual payment holiday and setting up a temporary arrangement. A contractual 
payment holiday  is usually a feature of the mortgage giving the customer  the right not to 
make payments without  going into arrears. And a payment arrangement  is put in place 
during a period of difficulty during which arrears will usually continue to build. 
Ive looked at the mortgage offer and I cant see any mention of payment holidays  as a 
feature of the mortgage. So I dont think Miss K had a contractual  right to payment holidays. 
And Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires didnt  agree  to a payment holiday as an 
arrangement over the phone. In any event, even if a payment  arrangement was agreed, any 
missed payments would  still usually  be reflected  on the customers credit file.
Ive listened to the call that took place between the parties in December 2017.  Miss K 
explained that her mortgage payment had been  returned for the month  as her income had 
reduced due to the tenants leaving her property.  The representative she spoke  to explained 
they would  need to carry out an income and expenditure assessment to identify  her best 
options  but suggested  if she would be selling the property  in the next few months, it could 
hold off any litigation action in the meantime.  During  the call, the representative said any 
missed payments may show on Miss Ks credit file and explained she can keep an eye on 
this by looking at her credit report.  And he later reiterated the potential impact  on her credit 
file of missing payments   even if litigation is placed  on hold. 
Birmingham Midshires has also given us the contact notes for other calls that took place with 
Miss K. And these show the representatives  during those  calls mentioned  the impact missed  
or late payments  could  have on her credit  file. I can also see the arrears  notices that were  
sent to Miss K in December 2017  and January 2018 explain Miss Ks credit file may be 
impacted if her account is in arrears  and this may affect her ability to borrow money  in the 
future. 
Overall, I think Birmingham Midshires  explained to Miss K her credit file could be impacted 
by the conduct  of her account.  I appreciate Miss K thinks  Birmingham Midshires shouldve 
done more to stress the likely impact her missing payments could have on her file and her 
future borrowing. And if it had, she wouldve chosen to make  the payments with her savings. 
But Im not persuaded it needed to do more in this case. I think  it gave Miss K information 
about the potential impact  of missing payments on her credit  file  and it was up to her to 
decide whether  to use her savings to cover  the repayments  or miss them  altogether. 
Ref: DRN60265993Ive taken in to consideration that Miss K was a buy to let customer who is expected  to be 
more commercially  aware than customers with residential mortgages.  And that she was 
missing payments on important borrowing secured against her property.  And I do think  she 
had a responsibility to understand the impact missed payments could have on her credit file 
and future  applications.
I do understand Miss Ks now in a difficult position  as shes  struggled  to get borrowing 
elsewhere. But having considered everything very carefully, I cant say this is due to 
Birmingham Midshires actions. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6026599