K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Ulster Bank Ltd unfairly blocked and closed her accounts. She says 
this caused her financial difficulty and inconvenience. She wants Ulster to provide  an 
explanation for its actions.  And pay compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been 
caused.
background
Mrs W had a current and savings account with Ulster Bank.
On 19 November 2018, Ulster Bank  placed a block on both of Mrs Ws accounts. This meant  
Mrs W couldnt access the money  in either account. On 28 November 2018, Ulster Bank 
removed the blocks to the accounts.  And wrote to Mrs W to let her know  it had decided to 
close her accounts, giving her 60 days notice to make alternative banking  arrangements.
Mrs W says she has been a loyal customer of the bank for many  years and cant  believe 
how it has acted. She says direct debits  werent paid from her account due to the blocks and 
she had to borrow money from one of her children which caused her a great deal of 
embarrassment. She says Ulster Banks actions had made her feel stressed  and quite 
unwell.
Ulster Bank said it hadnt done anything wrong. And it had blocked and then closed Mrs Ws 
accounts in line with the account terms and conditions. Mrs W wasnt happy with this 
response, so she brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked at Mrs Ws complaint. She said the block  hadnt stopped direct debits 
being paid from the account. And whilst she acknowledged Mrs W had been distressed and 
inconvenience by the block to her accounts, she said Ulster Bank hadnt done anything  
wrong. So, she didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed. Shes  still upset by what 
happened and wants Ulster Bank to provide her with a proper explanation about why it 
blocked her account.  She says she hasnt done  anything wrong and says Ulster Bank has 
treated her unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mrs W has told us and the bank that she feels very strongly about her 
complaint. And Im sorry to hear that her health has been affected by whats  happened.  I 
understand Mrs W is upset that Ulster Bank blocked and closed her accounts. And that this 
has caused her inconvenience.  
Mrs W says she hasnt done  anything  which would cause Ulster Bank to block her accounts. 
And that may be the case. But the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs Ws accounts  
outline the circumstances in which Ulster Bank can block  an account. And having considered 
those terms carefully, and the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Ulster Bank acted in 
line with them. So, I cant say Ulster Bank  did anything wrong  when it blocked  Mrs Ws 
accounts.
Mrs W has said that because of the blocks direct debits werent being paid from her 
accounts. And that this caused  her financial problems.  Ive looked at copies  of Mrs Ws 
Ref: DRN68496012account statements  and can see that her direct  debits  were  leaving her account normally. It 
also appears that there were no direct debits  due to leave her account on the dates when 
the accounts were  blocked. So, I cant say the blocks caused  any interruption to Mrs Ws 
direct debits. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Ulster Bank and Mrs W had to comply  
with  say that it could  close  the account by giving her 60 days  notice. Ulster Bank has done 
this. So, its entitled  to close the accounts as it seems its already done.
I know Mrs W is frustrated that she hasnt been given a proper explanation why her accounts 
were blocked and then closed. But under the terms and conditions Ulster Bank doesnt have 
to give a reason  for doing so  in the same way a customer doesnt have to, should they no 
longer want to bank  with them. So, I cant say Ulster  Bank has done anything wrong by not 
giving Mrs W this information  as much as shed like to know.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mrs W feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
it was a frustrating and upsetting time.  But overall,  based on the evidence  I have, I cant  say 
Ulster Bank have acted  unreasonably and treated Mrs W unfairly when it blocked and closed 
her accounts. So, I wont  be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6849601