1complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund unauthorised transactions.
background
On 3 February 2020, I wrote a provisional  decision upholding Mr Ws complaint. I said I would 
consider any further submissions that either party may wish to make in light of my findings,  in case 
they had a bearing on the complaint and caused  me to change  my mind.  
Mr W accepted my decision. But Monzo did not. They set out their objections  in writing,  although  
they did not provide me with any further material or documentary evidence.
Having considered Monzos comments carefully  Im still not persuaded that I should reject Mr Ws 
complaint.
Since I have already written the provisional decision,  the following text is largely what I have already  
written as the background and my findings  remain essentially the same.
Where I need to address the comments specifically  I do so below.
background to the complaint
On 19 May 2018, Mr W contacted Monzo to tell them there were a number of transactions  made 
from his account  the night  before  which he did not recognise. His Monzo card (and another  
bankcard) was missing. Monzo  blocked the card and said they would investigate noting  that Mr W 
still had his phone.
Mr W did not know how it had happened  but told Monzo  he had been out that evening  and 
remembered that he had fallen asleep on the bus home. It was his opinion that someone  had 
watched him use his card at the ATM, where hed withdrawn some cash, and was able to take 
advantage of him when he was asleep  on the bus.
The transactions were  made possible because the Monzo app had been opened on Mr Ws phone.  
Using the app, money  was transferred  to his Monzo  account from the linked  bank account.  Shortly 
thereafter, Mr Ws Monzo bankcard was used  to make a number  of ATM  withdrawals, plus further 
attempts, which failed because the withdrawal limit had been reached.  Throughout the early hours, 
a number of other  payments were made using the card and correct PIN. Two expensive taxi fares  
were also paid for. The card was used again  the next day around  lunchtime but the transactions  
failed as, by then, the card had been  blocked.
Monzo were  sympathetic to Mr W. They  did not doubt that the events must have been distressing for 
him. They apologised and gave him £100 in recognition that they had not been as quick as they 
would have liked investigating what had happened. And to cover the interest charged by the bank 
from whose account  the money  had been  transferred.
However, Monzo did not refund the disputed transactions  because, overall, they thought that Mr W 
had been grossly negligent  with his details. They did not think  that a person would have been able 
to know Mr Ws phone  passcode, bank card PIN, obtain his phone and bankcard,  had Mr W not 
been very careless with his information. They also thought it strange that the card was taken but not 
the phone.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. The investigator looking into the complaint was also 
sympathetic but agreed that in the circumstances, Monzo did not need  to make the refunds. In his 
view, though, and in contrast to Monzos position, he thought  it more  likely than not that Mr W 
authorised the transactions and that was why he thought refunds were not necessary.
Ref: DRN60392192Mr W asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Monzo highlighted the following issues  and asked for a further 
review taking them into account:
The discrepancy between the time of the first disputed transaction (around 12:30am)  and 
when Mr W says he was on the bus (around  1am to 2am);
The lack of supporting evidence that Mr W was ever on the bus;
The implausibility of the events on the bus (if Mr W was on the bus) and, if he was, then 
following a night  out it was likely he was drunk and therefore that means he was grossly 
negligent to allow  his phone and bank card to be exposed  to theft.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Monzo to refund  the 
transactions. Ill explain why.
Authorisation
From Monzos original business  file, they did not actually dispute Mr W did not authorise  these 
payments. I still think  that is the correct conclusion  to draw.  
The type, timing and location of payments are all consistent with them being unauthorised. Further,  
there are other factors, which have  informed my finding, such as: the manner in which  Mr W has 
run his accounts; his general expenditure; his occupation; that he reported the matter to the police; 
and how forthcoming  he has been with this service when we have asked for his information. 
An alternative suggestion is that he gave  the necessary details  and card to someone else to 
perform the transactions. This, however,  is a mere possibility. I have not seen any evidence  to 
persuade me that is what happened  in this case.
As to timing,  the evidence in this complaint is not entirely satisfactory. The bank records (both 
Monzos and for other banks), record events at different times (for example an event can happen 
the day before but looks like it has happened  when the money is cleared). There is a discrepancy 
between whether events are recorded at GMT or BST. But Im satisfied that the payments were 
made in BST and the last genuine transaction (Mr Ws ATM  cash  withdrawal) was at 12:10am  and 
the first fraudulent  transaction  was at 12:34am (another cash  withdrawal).  The last that morning 
was at 03:02am. 
Mr W has said that he thought he was on the bus between 1am and 2am. I also note, though, that 
he has tried to work it out rather than being  precise. He has tried to use some time references and 
journey times to work  it out. I think it more likely than not, therefore, that he was on the bus within  
that time frame but that he had got on the bus earlier than he has tried to guess.
I consider that 24 minutes was sufficient time for Mr W to get from the cashpoint he used, get on the 
bus, fall asleep and for the person  taking  his card to be at the next cashpoint withdrawing money. 
Because it was all geographically close enough.
Ref: DRN60392193All of the disputed  transactions took place around the same area  within a few streets of each 
other. They happened close to where Mr W had had a night  out and consistent the bus route  Mr W 
took home.
Whilst Monzo (in response to my provisional  decision) have emphasised some of the difficult issues  
in this complaint  they have not provided  any supporting evidence to suggest  that Mr W consented  
to the transactions. Evidence which Monzo could and should have obtained had they wanted  to do 
so, they did not obtain. And by the time the case came to this service, they no longer  held the 
material or never had tried, nor were ever were  going to try, to obtain. By that I mean some of their 
own internal records  and material relating to some of the merchants  in particular relating to the 
two expensive taxi bookings - which would have  shed  light on the events of the evening.
Taking all of these elements together, coupled with the card users  attempts to go over the 
withdrawal limit and payment attempts once  the card had been blocked, also point to an 
unauthorised users lack of knowledge of the details of the account  and that person taking and 
maximising chances to take more money. It follows I do not find that Mr W authorised these  
transactions  either by making  them himself or allowing someone else to.
Gross negligence and test
The issue,  therefore,  is whether Mr W was grossly  negligent. This is important because under 
the relevant regulations, notwithstanding  the unauthorised nature of the payments, Mr W, would 
not be entitled to a refund from Monzo if it could  be fairly said he was grossly negligent. In other 
words, was it something that Mr W did or did not do with his bank  details, which meant that his 
account could  be compromised. This would not prevent Mr W from pursuing the perpetrator. It 
would just mean that, in those circumstances, Mr W would not be able to recover  his loss from 
Monzo.
Whilst the term gross negligence is not defined in the regulations, the FCA has provided 
guidance, saying  that: we interpret gross negligence  to be higher than the standard  
negligence under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree 
of carelessness. (see FCA guidance  document for PSR 2017).
Therefore, I would  consider gross negligence  to be a lack of care that goes significantly beyond 
what would  be expected from a reasonable person. So, Mr Ws actions must be assessed against 
what a reasonable  person in his position would have done, and his actions should only amount to 
gross negligence if what  he did fell far below the standard expected  of a reasonable person.
This case
Im satisfied that Mr W had had a difficult day at work, having stayed at his place of work  as he had 
been on call the night before. After work he had come home to get ready to go out for a colleagues 
party. He was going out fairly local to where he lived. It does not appear unusual  to me that he 
should take a bus home  at the end of the evening.  
I accept that there is no direct evidence of a contactless payment on the bus. I can see that from the 
bank records that Mr W has provided. Mr W does  not think he used a travelcard either. But I can 
also see that he has auto top-up  to that travel  scheme and a payment was taken  from his bank 
account at the relevant time. Again, had Monzo  asked about that earlier it may have been possible 
for Mr W to get some other supporting evidence but they didnt. So again  Mr W has speculated 
about what may have  happened.
As I have pointed out, the location of the first unauthorised ATM  withdrawal was close  to the location 
of the night out. It is also consistent  with someone having obtained information and quickly using it 
Ref: DRN60392194close by. That appears consistent  with someone  feeling confident  to use it - the bus by then having 
moved off.
It also does not appear unusual to me that someone should fall asleep when on their way home  
even if they had been drinking  or indeed partly because of that. I think that meets  an objective 
standard of someone  who is tired, coming  home  from a night out and falling asleep on public 
transport. I accept  that to a degree that renders a person vulnerable. Yet, on the other hand, there 
is a degree of a feeling  of safety  in doing  so - since public transport is lit and recorded with CCTV. 
Monza have suggested that because many places  have  CCTV now,  that means it is negligent  to fall 
asleep on public transport. They seem to be saying  that all public places are precarious places to 
fall asleep. I do not accept  that argument.  On their analysis that would mean more not fewer places 
would be safer to fall asleep. Even if I were to conclude falling asleep in such circumstances is 
negligent, I would not conclude it was grossly negligent. There  are public policy reasons for having 
CCTV one of which is crime prevention. Naturally, it does not always work but it does not mean  that 
a person deserves to be a victim  of crime because they placed reliance on a public policy factor.
The question then is what did happen  with Mr Ws bankcard, details and phone in order for the 
fraud to take place?
I think it more likely than not that Mr Ws bankcard PIN was observed at the ATM when he used it at 
12:10am. Mr W did not notice anyone but, in these circumstances,  I take account of the fact that if 
he had been targeted,  then the perpetrator would be careful  not to be noticed  or appreciate  that 
Mr W would not notice.
Conversely, and notwithstanding  a feeling of safety, once asleep it would be easy for someone  to 
access the phone.
There is no precise evidence as to how the phone was opened on this occasion. The phone, 
however, was capable of being opened  by fingerprint or passcode. Given  I think it was more  likely  
than not that Mr W was observed, I think it likely his finger was used  to open the phone since that 
would be the easiest method. 
I am aware that accessing  phones and apps can take the lightest of touches from a finger.  This is 
consistent with a person who is asleep not noticing this being  done. The app could be accessed 
by tapping on the icon and money could be transferred into the account from there. I note there  
were two attempts in quick succession but only one worked. This suggests some fumbling. But, 
overall, the process was quick. 
The speed  with which this occurred, and the manner in which  I think it is likely to have occurred, is 
consistent with someone  who knew what they were doing. This process also accounts for why the 
bankcard was taken but the phone was not.
In the circumstances,  I do not think it would be fair or reasonable of me to conclude  that Mr W was 
grossly negligent.  I think he was victim  of a crime  by an opportunist who knew what they were doing.
I think, therefore, the fair and reasonable outcome is that Monzo  refund the payments. I see no 
reason to depart from an interest payment on the total sum attracted at the standard rate of 8% pa. 
This represents the loss of the use of the money  to Mr W and the fact that Monzo  have been  able 
to use the money they ought to have  refunded  Mr W for their own purposes.
I note that Monzo  have  made a payment of £100 to Mr W. Whilst I think this goes some way to 
resolve the complaint, I also think it would have been fairer of Monzo to put some of its other concerns 
to Mr W at the outset. They could have requested specific information to give him to opportunity to find 
out additional information. They too could have found out other information, which would have helped 
Ref: DRN60392195to understand the complaint more and resolve it sooner. Given  that, I think it would be fair to pay Mr 
W a further £200  this is to acknowledge the trouble  an upset to Mr W in pursuing  his complaint 
longer than was necessary.
my final decision
To resolve this complaint, therefore, I require Monzo Bank  Ltd within 4 weeks of written confirmation  
that this decision  has been accepted by Mr W to:
1)Refund Mr W the disputed transactions which together totalled £792.88;
2)Apply 8% per annum to that sum from the 19 May 2018  until the date of settlement is 
confirmed in writing;
3)  Pay £200  to Mr W in recognition of his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6039219