K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy Zenith  Insurance plc has cancelled his motorbike insurance policy from the 
start as if it never existed and refused his claim on the policy  after his motorbike was stolen.
background
Mr R bought his motorbike insurance policy through  a comparison website in November 
2017. His motorbike  was stolen in July 2018,  after hed left it parked securely on a street.  
The motorbike was subsequently recovered  by the police. But it was damaged and so was 
taken to a secure  storage facility, I understand on the instructions of Mr Rs insurance 
brokers. 
Zenith has cancelled  Mr Rs policy from the start, declined to deal with his claim and retained 
his policy  premium to cover costs it says its incurred.  It says its done this because,  when  
Mr R applied for the insurance, he gave incorrect information about  where  his motorbike was 
stored overnight. Zenith  says if Mr R had given it the correct  information, it wouldnt have 
offered him insurance on his motorbike.
The investigator who looked at Mr Rs complaint upheld it. She didnt think the questions    
Mr R was asked about where his motorbike was stored overnight were  clear enough when 
he applied  for the insurance. So she said Zenith  should reinstate Mr Rs policy and deal with 
his claim.  
Zenith disagrees and so Mr Rs complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Where an insurer cancels  a policy as if it never existed, our starting point is to look at the 
questions a consumer  was asked when he or she applied for the policy to see if they were 
clear. 
When Mr R applied for the insurance  through the comparison website, he was asked at the 
start of his application  for his address and he gave his home address. Later  on, he was 
asked where his motorbike was stored  overnight. From the three options available from a 
drop-down menu   Driveway, Locked  garage,  Road, Mr R chose Locked  garage. Mr R 
says he never kept his motorbike overnight at his home address  which  was a flat and 
didnt have its own garage. Instead, he says it was kept at one of two locations  one he 
describes as a secure underground car park, the other as a car park near a station. So he 
says he chose Locked garage from the available options, because  it was the closest 
description of where he stored his motorbike overnight. 
At the end of the application,  among  many  other  things, there  was a list of eight assumptions  
that Zenith  says Mr R wouldve need  to tick to accept and so complete his application. One 
of these says Your vehicle is kept at the address  you provided  in your quote overnight . 
From information Zenith has sent us as part of its case file, Mr R wouldve needed to open  a 
link that took him to another  page before he could see this and the other seven  assumptions.
Ref: DRN66850992After Mr R had applied  for the policy, Zenith  sent him a Statement of Fact. I understand the 
statement wouldve been  completed  based on the information Mr R gave during his online 
application. It has been ticked to say the motorbike is normally  kept at Mr Rs home  address. 
Its also been ticked to say its kept in a garage  overnight. A question  about where the 
motorbike is kept during  a normal working  day has been left blank.
The policy Mr R bought  had a number of endorsements, which  were set out in his insurance  
schedule. One of these excluded cover  for theft of the motorbike if it wasnt  kept in a private 
locked garage  at the insureds home  address overnight. Also, Zenith says that, if it had 
known how and where Mr Rs motorbike was stored overnight then, under its underwriting 
rules, it wouldnt have  offered Mr R cover for his motorbike in the first place.
From what  Ive seen, I think Mr R took reasonable care when he answered the questions  he 
was asked during  his online application.  He says he viewed the two places he stored the 
motorbike as being secure. So I think it was reasonable  of him to select Locked garage to 
describe where  he stored it since this option, of the three he had to choose from, best 
matches that view.  I say this especially bearing in mind  there  was no additional information 
during the application  to describe exactly what Zenith meant  by a locked garage.  Nor was 
there anything to say why the question was so important. If it was important to Zenith  to 
establish accurately  where Mr R stored  his motorbike overnight, I think  the onus was on it to 
ask Mr R more detailed  and specific questions than it did during his online  application  
process.
Ive noted that, during the online  application, it seems Mr R had to tick to confirm hed read 
various assumptions about his motorbike insurance,  including the one saying it was kept 
overnight at his home address.  But these  assumptions are set within a lot of other  text, so I 
think Mr R could reasonably have missed the assumption about where his motorbike was 
stored. And, more importantly, if (as Zeniths  case file suggests) Mr R wouldve needed to 
click on a link to open up a new page  to see the list, I think its very likely he could have 
missed it.
I can also see the Statement of Fact refers to the motorbike being  kept at Mr Rs home 
address and being garaged overnight. But this document  was sent to Mr R after hed bought 
the motorbike  insurance.  Zenith makes the point that this is an important document, which 
Mr R shouldve read carefully. I agree that its an important document. But I think  the 
reference to his motorbike being kept at his home  address  is a detail he could reasonably 
and easily  have missed.
So, to summarise, as Ive said, I think Mr R answered the questions he was asked during his 
online application with reasonable care.  I think  Zeniths questions about  where  the motorbike 
was stored  werent  clear  or detailed  enough  in Mr Rs case.  It follows I think Zeniths 
decision to cancel Mr Rs policy from the start as if it never  existed, and not deal with his 
claim, was unreasonable.
I understand Mr Rs motorbike is being returned to him soon  and that he is not being  
charged any storage  costs by his insurance brokers  agent.
Ref: DRN66850993my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Zenith Insurance plc to:
Reinstate Mr Rs motorcycle policy and consider the claim on the basis that Mr Rs 
motorbike was stored in a locked garage, in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Amend all records for Mr R on internal and central databases  (including  the
Central and Underwriting Exchange) to remove the cancellation of this policy as if
it never existed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6685099