K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998, or some time after. Mr S says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr S didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it. Lloyds has not been able to give us all of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  But I 
dont find this surprising  because  it was around  20 years  ago and businesses  arent  
required to keep  paperwork  indefinitely. And Lloyds  also cant  confirm  the date of sale 
but it seems likely it was at the same time or shortly after the credit card start date. 
Lloyds has been  able to give us a sample of the credit card agreement it would have 
used at the time the credit card was sold. In section  7 of the application which  is entitled  
TSB Credit Card  Payments Insurance, there  is a box that would need  to be ticked  if the 
PPI was to be taken. As PPI was added to the account, I think Mr S ticked  the box to 
take it. And from what we know of Lloyds sales practices around  that time and after, it 
seems more likely  it would  have  been clear to Mr S that he didnt have  to take the policy.
I cant safely conclude that Mr S wasnt given an option to take out the PPI. And this is 
because it would be unfair for me to assume something went  wrong  when I have no 
evidence that it did.  
So, on balance, and given  the limited information  as to when and how this policy was 
sold, I cant fairly say that Lloyds didn't  make  Mr S aware he had a choice about buying 
the PPI. If the PPI was added when Mr S applied for the card, which  is the most likely 
scenario, he would have been  aware  that he had a choice about buying it. 
Lloyds is assuming it recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.
Mr S has told us he was employed  at the time of the sale and would receive employee 
benefits if he was too unwell  to work  or lost his job. He also had death in service  
benefits. Mr S has also said he had some savings  and he could have  relied on his family 
to make the repayments  if needed.  Having the policy in place would have meant  Mr Ss 
savings could have  remained  intact.  And while the offer from his family  was no doubt  
well meant,  the circumstances of others can change so their offers of help could not be 
guaranteed.
Ref: DRN68819842If Mr S had made  a successful claim the policy would have paid up to 10% of the 
outstanding balance on his credit card every month, and it would have done so for up to 
12 months. It also provided life cover. I think Mr S would have found the benefits useful if 
he wasnt able to work because of illness  or lost his job. So he seems  to have had a 
need for the cover. And the policy would have paid out over and above  any employee 
benefits he would have received. So those benefits  could have been used for other 
essential outgoings. 
And if Lloyds didn't  give Mr S a personal  recommendation to take the policy, it had to 
provide him with clear, fair and not misleading information about  the PPI so that Mr S 
could make up his mind as to whether  he felt the policy  would have been useful to him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  
Ive carefully thought  about the cost of the policy and taking  into account Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, I still think he would have bought it. I say this because  as I 
explained above, I still think the policy would  have been useful if Mr S was out of work for 
a lengthy time. So I dont  think better  information  about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
I have considered Mr Ss comments, including what he has said about not knowing he had 
the policy and wouldnt have taken it if he had known because  of his employee  benefits. But 
because of what Ive said, his comments dont change my mind. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and I wont be asking  
Lloyds Bank  PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6881984