K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the service  she received  from Bank of Scotland Plc after it declined an 
online payment  she was trying to make.
 
background
When Ms B had to call the bank after a transaction declined there were long wait times; she 
received texts from the bank that didnt  help; and she says it took her the best part of a day 
to resolve the issue. When she complained about this she was unhappy with the banks 
response and said it had failed to properly  investigate her complaint. She said her account 
was unusable  for three days. 
Bank of Scotland accepted it shouldnt have taken more than one call to resolve the issue  
with the online payment,  and apologised for this. It explained the call volume into its fraud 
team was unexpectedly high on the day. It said that her transaction  was stopped for fraud 
checks, and temporarily  blocked, but the block was lifted on the same day and Ms B later 
successfully completed  the transaction. The bank  said it felt it had addressed 
Ms Bs complaint in full in its final response letter to her. And it had already refunded her call 
costs and paid £60 compensation to recognise  her upset and frustration. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Ms Bs complaint should  be upheld.  He said whilst he 
understood why she was frustrated when she called to find out what  was happening, the 
bank had already  acknowledged its service that day wasnt  acceptable and compensated   
Ms B fairly.  He said the bank was entitled  to have in place the fraud  checks  it saw as 
necessary. He also sent Ms B information on setting up third party access  on her account.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary, she said her payment was 
stopped that day because  of a wider issue with one of the payment networks, not for security 
reasons. It wasnt just one online payment she had a problem with, there were four online 
orders that week that wouldnt accept her card details. And she had just received  another  
text asking her to call to verify a payment. Finally, she said she needed the form to set up 
third party access, not just information on it and she has asked for this repeatedly.   
So the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms B has provided a lot of comments during this investigation. I have  read them all carefully, 
but will comment here only on the issues that we are allowed  to look into and that I find to be 
material to her complaint.    
Having reviewed her complaint in full, Ive reached  largely the same conclusion  as the 
investigator and for the same reasons.
I agree  that Ms B experienced more  inconvenience  that she should have on 3 June 2018 
and that the service the bank provided  fell short of what shes right to expect.  I understand 
that it was distressing for her. But it has acknowledged this, apologised and provided  fair 
compensation by covering all her call costs and paying £60 to recognise her trouble. 
Ref: DRN62898372The records  the bank  sent in show the transaction was blocked by an internal fraud rule, not 
because of issues with the payment network as Ms B suggests. Also,  I cant  see any record  
of any other  declined transactions later that week as Ms B recalls.  It may be they failed for 
another reason, prior to reaching  the bank for authorisation.
With regards setting  up third party access on her account, I can see our investigator sent 
Ms B the banks leaflet that explains  how to do this (giving a number to call to register  over 
the phone, or by making a branch appointment). Whilst the bank  explains  it will need  to meet  
any third party it does  say that can be done  independently of Ms B. The investigator offered  
to arrange for the right person from the bank to call Ms B to start this process, and we can 
still do that if she wishes.
Ms B has also raised issues  more recently  about  not having  access to her money over 
Christmas. I can see one transaction  declined on 22 December 2018, but if she is referring  
to other  issues she should first raise this with the bank. If she remains  unhappy with its 
response she can of course  bring her complaint to this service.  If she is referring to setting 
up a third party mandate we can, as I said above,  help by arranging for the bank to call her 
about this.
  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6289837