K822xcomplaint
Miss E has complained  that Simplyhealth Access failed to make clear  the period  in which  
she could make claims under her health  cash plan with the result that she lost out on benefit.
background 
In November 2017, Miss E applied to take out the policy which was offered through  her 
employer. The policy would pay benefit  towards  various health costs,  including  up to £100 
each policy  year for optical expenses. The policy started on 1 December 2017.
On 1 November  2018, the policy renewed.
On 28 November 2018, Miss E received optical treatment costing £99.
Miss E claimed for the cost of this treatment under her policy. Simplyhealth accepted the 
claim but set it against the new policy year starting on 1 November 2018, meaning that 
Miss E had just £1 optical  benefit left for the remainder of the year.
Miss E complained. She said shed  understood her policy year began from the time her 
policy started and would therefore  run until 30 November  2018.
Simplyhealth didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained that because Miss Es policy was 
obtained through her employer, it shared the same  renewal date as all the other  employees  
which was 1 November.  It said that its sales representative had explained  this to Miss E at 
the time of her application.  It further said that she had been sent information both at the time 
the policy started and again before the first renewal which made this clear.  It also said it was 
made clear in documentation available  through Miss Es online account.
Miss E was unhappy  at Simplyhealths response. She referred her complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  document  states:
How does  my cash plan work?
Its simple: well pay your eligible claims up to the amounts shown for your level of 
cover for each benefit, every policy year.
The policy document described policy  year as follows:
The 12 calendar months from the start date or the last renewal date. Your summary 
of cover shows the dates  for your policy year.
So from this, I consider that Miss E should have reasonably  understood that her policy would 
provide cover for 12 months from the start date of her policy. 
Simplyhealth has provided a letter which was apparently sent to Miss E when she took out 
her policy.  The letter states:
Ref: DRN626389221st December 2017 to 31st October  2018.
Your claiming/policy year is the period in which the annual amount covered for your 
policy can be claimed.
I dont think this is particular clear but if it is saying that the policy year is the period from 
1 December 2017 to 31 October 2018  then this contradicts the policy document.
Furthermore, I find Simplyhealths  final response  letter to Miss E to be confusing. It states  
that the sales representative explained  to Miss E that joining when she did was an 
advantage because she would receive  twelve months entitlements for only eleven months 
premiums. However, it goes on to state  that Miss Es policy year was 1 December 2017 to 
31 October 2018. This is a period of only eleven  months.
Miss E understood that the start date of her policy was 1 December 2017.  This seemed to 
be confirmed by the welcome letter  she received. It was also stated on the home page of her 
online account. This being the case, in line with the policys  terms, I consider it reasonable 
for Miss E to understand that her policy year would run until 30 November 2018. 
If Simplyhealth  had wanted, for ease of administration,  to backdate  the start of Miss Es 
cover to 1 November 2017, thus allowing her policy to renew simultaneously with other 
policies, it was entitled to do this. Maybe  this is what it intended to do. But I dont think it 
made this clear to Miss E. And while I recognise it sent renewal documents  to Miss E in 
September 2018 which said that the policy  was to renew on 1 November 2018, I dont think 
this excuses its failure to clarify her period of cover  when  she first took out the policy.
Miss E incurred her cost of optical treatment  just before the 12 month anniversary of when  
she first took out the policy. Im satisfied  that if she had known her policy year expired at the 
end of October 2018, she would have arranged to receive the treatment sooner so that it fell 
in the earlier  policy year. I therefore think the fair outcome  in this case  is that Simplyhealth  
settle Miss Es claim as if it were received in the policy year ending  on 31 October 2018 so 
that it doesnt affect her benefit  entitlement  in the policy  year starting  1 November 2018.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Miss E responded to say she was concerned that Simplyhealth appeared to have attempted 
to subject her to the wrong terms of contract. She considered this was unacceptable and 
asked for an additional gesture of goodwill as compensation.
Simplyhealth responded to say it didnt accept my provisional decision. It explained that the 
reference to twelve  months entitlements for only eleven months premiums was intended  to 
reflect that Miss E would be entitled to the full annual benefit limits (£100, in the case  of 
optical expenses)  for the eleven  months of her cover. It said it didnt backdate  cover  to start 
from November because  it had individuals signing up to the policy all year round; it said it 
would be unrealistic to expect someone joining  in June to have to pay eight months of 
backdated premiums. It said that Miss E had been  sent a renewal  notice on 5 September  
2018 which gave  her six weeks to arrange any treatment  before the end of her policy  year. It 
maintained that the date until which Miss Es policy would run had been made clear to her in 
her welcome pack and in the online portal.
Ref: DRN62638923my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Simplyhealths point about  Miss E receiving twelve  months entitlement for 
eleven months premiums. I also understand why it doesnt want to backdate a new 
members cover to the previous November. However,  Simplyhealth  cant  simply ignore the 
policy terms. These say that Miss Es policy year would be twelve  calendar months from the 
start date of her policy. If, for administrative purposes, Simplyhealth wants a new members 
policy year to always end on 31 October  then it needs either to ensure their cover always  
starts from 1 November or to amend its policy terms.
I dont think it really  matters whether Simplyhealth adequately communicated  to Miss E that 
her policy year ran from 1 December  2017 to 31 October 2018. This is because it wasnt 
allowed to restrict her policy year in this way. I still think, in any case, that Miss E was 
understandably confused  over the deadline by which she needed to make a claim and were 
it not for this she would have arranged to undergo her treatment sooner. I therefore still think  
the fair outcome in this case  is that Simplyhealth should settle  Miss Es claim as if it was 
received in the previous  policy year. 
Miss E has suggested that Simplyhealths actions mean she should be entitled  to additional 
compensation. However, I dont think that she has been caused undue  distress or 
inconvenience as a result  of this matter and am satisfied that the redress  outlined  above is 
sufficient to fairly resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Simplyhealth Access to settle Miss Es claim as if it were received in the policy  year ending 
on 31 October 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6263892