K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs H took out on the advice 
of Key Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS)  in 2013.  The complaint is that the lifetime  
mortgage was mis-sold.  Following Mrs Hs death,  the executor of her estate is her son Mr H, 
who is presenting  the complaint to us on behalf  of his mothers estate. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in my own words, and in rather less detail than 
theyve been presented.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a  reflection  of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published
In 2013, Mrs H took out a lifetime mortgage  of £33,000, on advice from KRS.  The terms of 
the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments  are required. The mortgage  is only due to 
be repaid if the borrower sells the property voluntarily, goes into full-time nursing  care or 
after their death.  Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is 
compounded. This means that if the loan runs for a number of years,  there can be a 
significant balance  to be repaid.
Mr H says he found out about the lifetime mortgage for the first time after his mother  died, 
and complained that it had been  mis-sold. 
KRS rejected the complaint, prompting  Mr H to refer it to us. The basis of Mr Hs complaint is 
that Mrs Hs mental health was so severely diminished that she lacked the capacity to enter 
into a transaction  of this type. She had substantial savings and no need of the mortgage;  
Mr H believes  KRSs advisor and the lender were negligent in failing to identify Mrs Hs 
health problems  and asses her needs properly.
Our adjudicator didnt  think KRS had done  anything wrong. Mr H has asked that the 
complaint be reviewed an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Mr H has said hed like to hear from me before I decide the complaint. Ill speak to either 
party if I think theres further information I need to decide the case that I dont  already  have.  I 
dont contact either party simply because they want me to. To do so here would, in effect, be 
giving Mr H a one-sided personal  hearing to press  the estates case directly without the 
business being involved and being able to contribute.  
On the rare occasions we conduct  a direct hearing,  its at the discretion of an ombudsman,  is 
called solely because he or she thinks its essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present.  Anything  else would be procedurally  unfair, and 
Ref: DRN69651922introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
In a number of his emails,  Mr H has referred  to this as his complaint. Under our rules, Mrs H 
was a consumer,  and so met the definition  of an eligible complainant set out in our rules.  
After the death,  her eligibility to complain vested in her estate. More importantly for this 
complaint, the rules  say that a complaint may be brought on behalf  of an eligible  complainant  
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr H 
is bringing the complaint on the estates  behalf.
But I must explain that, although  Mr H is representing his mothers  estate,  it is Mrs H who 
was KRSs customer (or at least was at the time of the events complained  about). Mr Hs 
role is to bring Mrs Hs complaint on her estates behalf, in the same  way that other  
consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor  or accountant to represent them  in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr H to air his own grievances about KRS, because  he is not its 
customer; his role is limited to putting  forward the estates  complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mr H has expressed his own concerns about  
what he perceives to be KRSs failings  and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about this. 
But because Mr H is not KRSs customer,  this final decision is limited  to consideration of 
Mrs Hs complaint about KRS.
Mrs H hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mr H looked closer at his mothers financial affairs after she died that a complaint was raised  
with KRS. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage.  Without  a 
specific complaint from Mrs H about  it, I have considered generally whether KRS did 
anything wrong  when the mortgage was taken out.
I reiterate that its KRSs actions Im considering  here, not those of the lender. The two 
businesses may be part of the same  wider commercial group, but under the rules  we follow, 
known as DISP, theyre still viewed  as separate and discrete entities by us, as well as by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) which wrote the DISP  rules. If Mr H thinks the lender 
acted irresponsibly or failed its regulatory  duties  in providing the lifetime mortgage, thats a 
different complaint hed need  to make to the lender.
Mr H asks that I consider  recent findings from FCA case studies. What  I actually have to do 
is consider the rules  in place, and what was generally considered good practice, at the time 
of the sale. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2013.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly or missed  altogether;  that notion  forms much of Mr Hs 
arguments, especially  to do with Mrs Hs health  and financial resources at the time.  
Ref: DRN69651923But where the consumer has signed  to confirm that the information is accurate, well 
generally attach some  weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual 
recollections (or, as here, the recollections  of others) at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes  be inaccurate or contradictory. That wont  always  be the 
case, and Ill come back that in due course, but for the moment  my focus is on the point of 
sale documentation.
Mr H says that his mother had serious health  problems that werent reflected in the 
information recorded at the time of the application.  Mr H has provided evidence  of this, and 
theres no doubt its quite  compelling. I wont go into the details, but Im satisfied Mrs H did 
have very serious  health conditions. Mr H also says his mother  had more savings than was 
documented. 
That may be true too, but Mrs H signed a declaration to say all of the information that had 
been gathered  was correct. That included information about her general  health. Whether 
KRS was entitled to take what Mrs H said on face value, Ill come back  to in due course. But 
KRS certainly wasnt required to check with Mrs Hs family that she had discussed what  she 
was planning  to do. In that respect, Mrs H was entitled to privacy. I appreciate Mr H has 
serious concerns  about the accuracy  and the amount of detail  in what KRS gathered,  but the 
fact is that Mrs H gave the information  to KRS and declared it to be accurate.
It seems  Mrs H had particular financial  objectives, including  (but not limited to) home 
improvements and a holiday  abroad. I dont  know if any of those came to fruition,  but the 
fact-find records that Mrs H had specific spending plans. If she had savings from which  she 
could have financed  those plans, that wasnt disclosed. But even if it had been, its not 
unusual for people often to prefer  to borrow rather than dip into savings or liquidate  other  
assets. So it seems to me that a mortgage  of some  sort or another  wasnt  necessarily  
unsuitable or inappropriate.
Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage  would  have been  a 
better option. Mrs H was divorced, not working  and living alone on a pension. So it shouldnt 
be assumed that Mrs H would have  been accepted for a traditional mortgage,  given her 
circumstances (as disclosed). This,  combined  with my earlier  finding  that Mrs H had decided 
some borrowing was necessary, meant that equity  release was probably the most viable 
option for Mrs H, given what shed told KRS about  her circumstances and preferences.
As to the lifetime mortgage itself,  its normal  for interest to roll up, and then to attract  further 
interest on a compounding  basis. The effect  of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the 
point-of-sale material. Ive seen  the illustration for the mortgage; it uses  an assumption that 
the mortgage will last for 32 years, but it includes a narrative pointing  out this assumption 
and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Mr H may feel the documents were too complex  to ensure a proper understanding of the 
mortgage. I cant know how much  of the information  Mrs H assimilated. But the documents 
presented the information in a format  that was consistent with the requirements set by the 
FCA - which regulates the sale of mortgages.  
Theres more. Before  she took out the mortgage in 2013, Mrs H was required to have 
independent legal advice from a solicitor   not KRSs solicitor. The solicitor confirmed to the 
lender that shed explained the terms of the mortgage to Mrs H. I think that if the solicitor had 
had any concerns that Mrs H didnt  understand the nature and effect of what  she was 
Ref: DRN69651924signing (or indeed lacked  the capacity to transact), she wouldnt have been advised to 
proceed with it.
The requirement for Mrs H to have separate legal  advice of her own derives from the rules of 
the Equity Release Council. Those rules were adopted by the Council on 11 July 2013 and 
came into full effect on 1 January 2014. This application was made  in September 2013 and 
completed in December 2013, so I consider the Equity Release Council rules to be an 
appropriate reference point.
Mr H is right to point  out that KRSs advisor wasnt a medical  professional. That said,  the 
Equity Release Council  rules cover the sensitive issue of how a business should deal with a 
persons capacity to transact.  The rule thats relevant here says business should  not be 
conducted unless  reasonable  steps  have been  taken to ensure that:
(1) There has been a full discussion as to the implications of the plan for the 
customer(s) and for their family and that the customer(s) was (were) made fully 
aware of such implications. 
(2) The customer(s) has/have been advised of the risks, features and benefits of the 
relevant product. 
(3) The customer(s) has/have considered all alternative courses  of action.  
(4) The customers(s) physical and mental health  has been considered in relation to 
the suitability of the plan.
The FCAs Mortgages: Conduct of Business (MCOB) Rules refer to the customers  
health  which The Council  interprets  as meaning both physical and mental, 
including the customers capacity to enter into a legal contract. The Mental Capacity 
Act specifically lists Solicitors amongst those deemed competent to assess 
mental capacity. The Solicitor who gives the customer independent legal advice 
about the contract should therefore be able to make this judgment but if the Solicitor  
does not know the customer  well, or has any doubts about  the customers 
mental capacity, a medical certificate  will usually be sought. If the adviser has 
doubts about the customers capacity  to enter into the contract,  they should 
seek an opinion from an appropriately qualified medical practitioner. (my 
emphasis)
Ref: DRN69651925In Mrs Hs case, the solicitor didnt  know Mrs H well, but it seems that on meeting her, she 
didnt have doubts about Mrs Hs capacity. A medical report was obtained  from a nurse  who 
met Mrs H, but that was at the lenders behest, to establish Mrs Hs entitlement  to an 
enhanced lending product, not because of any concerns about her capacity to transact.
I also cant ignore the onus placed on KRSs advisor  in the rules to seek  a medical report  if 
there were concerns about  capacity. KRS didnt do this, and so the conclusion  to be drawn  
from this is that KRS didnt have  any concerns either. I cant know how Mrs H presented  
herself during  the meetings with KRSs advisor and her solicitor,  but the fact is that both KRS 
and Mrs Hs solicitor  were  satisfied that Mrs H had sufficient capacity to enter into the 
transaction. The medical evidence Mr H has supplied might suggest otherwise, but insofar 
as that wasnt available to KRS, a fair application of the relevant rules  doesnt allow  me to 
find in favour  of her estate, however strongly Mr H might feel that I should.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6965192