K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Legal  and General  Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) has declined his 
claim under his employers group income protection policy and about how L&G has dealt 
with his claim.
background
Mr M had the benefit of income protection insurance that his employer holds with L&G. If a 
claim was accepted the policy  would cover some of Mr Ms income  after the deferred period 
of 41 weeks. For a claim to be successful Mr M had to show that he was unable  to work in 
his own or a suited  occupation, and that his condition  was likely to be permanent for the rest 
of his working life.
Mr M has been off work since  June  2017  due to chronic low back  pain, depression and 
anxiety, which he says has prevented him from carrying out his job, or any other work. 
Mr M submitted a claim to L&G in December 2017.  L&G then started  its assessment of the 
claim. It requested medical evidence and Mr Ms medical records  and, in August 2018, it 
notified Mr Ms employers that his claim had been declined as it believed there was potential  
for his condition to improve with appropriate medical intervention.  L&G said it wasnt clear 
that his condition would prevent him from working  before  his normal retirement date. It also 
said that Mr M had refused to engage with its rehabilitation team, as required by the policy.
Mr M didnt  accept L&Gs decision to decline his claim. He said his condition had 
deteriorated and he was using a wheelchair. L&G reviewed his claim but didnt  change  its 
decision, as it said there  wasnt  evidence to confirm Mr M wouldnt be able to carry out a less 
physically demanding occupation  for the rest of his working life.
Mr M also complained to L&G about  the time it had taken it to respond to his request for 
information about his case.  In early November  2018  L&G offered Mr M £500 as 
compensation for this delay.
Mr M complained to our service in late October  2018. Our investigator considered the case  
but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He accepted  that Mr M was currently unfit to 
work, but said the current medical evidence didnt  go far enough to show his condition  would 
be permanent.  So he didnt think L&G had acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ms claim.
Our investigator also considered the level of service Mr M had received from L&G.  He said it 
wasnt disputed that things hadnt gone as they should when the claim was submitted, but 
L&G had recognised this and our investigator felt the £500 it had offered Mr M was fair and 
reasonable.
While our investigator acknowledged that Mr M had now told us he was using a wheelchair, 
he said to consider the case  further  he needed medical  evidence  to show  this was likely to 
be permanent.  Mr M provided a letter from his GP, dated 2 April 2019, which detailed the 
deterioration of his condition.
This was evidence L&G hadnt seen  and our investigator asked them to consider it. L&G 
considered this further evidence but didnt think it supported the claim. 
Ref: DRN67449882Our investigator then provided his further  opinion and he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He said that while the GPs opinion supported Mr Ms assertion that his chronic back 
pain now looked  long term, the GPs comments didnt refer back to the point when the claim 
was submitted. And as Mr Ms cover ended  when he left his employment, he couldnt ask 
L&G to reassess the claim  as there  was no longer cover in place. 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators opinion  so the case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill look first at Mr Ms complaint  about  how L&G have handled his claim. In looking at this its 
important to remember that Mr Ms employers, not him, are the policyholders.  Mr M has 
complained that when  dealing with his complaint he didnt have a copy  of the policy. While 
this is correct it wasnt for L&G to provide this to him, and when he requested  a copy  from 
them, L&G contacted his employers and said they had no objection to him being provided 
with a copy. 
L&G has acknowledged  that there  was a delay in dealing with Mr Ms request for information  
after his claim had been declined. It offered £500 by way of compensation for trouble and 
upset. I think this is fair and reasonable particularly  as the basis of the complaint  is whether 
Mr M meets the policy definition of incapacity  and this was set out by his employers, when 
they wrote  to him in October  2017 about submitting  a claim. So while he didnt have details 
of all the policy terms and conditions, he was made aware that at the time of assessment the 
medical evidence  must  suggest hes unable to work and his condition  is likely to be 
permanent for the rest of his working life.
The policy says that at the point  of assessment the claimant must be both:-
(i)Unable  to follow his own occupation  or any other  for which he is suited by reason of 
training, education  and experience,  and
(ii)The medical evidence must suggest that the condition is likely to be permanent for 
the rest of the claimants working  life.
So the bar for making a successful  claim  is very high and, in Mr Ms case,  this would mean  
hed have to be unfit to work until 2052,  his normal retirement age. Once Mr Ms employment  
was terminated,  even on the grounds of ill-health,  his cover under the policy  ended. So I 
need to consider whether  the medical  evidence available, when Mr M was still had cover,  
supports his claim. 
Mr Ms GP provided  a report  in December 2017.  This says Mr M was suffering from chronic  
low back pain. And this together with difficulties sleeping and walking prevented  him from 
working. An MRI scan hadnt shown any acute  structural  problems with his spine so his 
condition was being managed with medication  and occasional  physiotherapy. His GP didnt 
consider Mr M fit to work, at that time,  and had no suggestions to make to ensure  his 
successful rehabilitation. Mr M was first diagnosed with back  pain in November 2014. And 
his GP says since then his symptoms had deteriorated to a point where Mr M feels  he can 
no longer work.
 
Ref: DRN67449883I can understand why L&G didnt accept  this report as evidence  that Mr M was permanently  
unable to work. The GP doesnt explain why he cant make  suggestions as to successful 
rehabilitation. And it seems that its Mr Ms opinion that he can no longer work, not the GPs. 
So I dont  think the report is evidence that Mr M is permanently unable  to work as the policy 
requires.
Mr Ms medical notes from his employers were  sent to L&G in February  2018.  These  
confirmed he wasnt fit for his role and no alternative  roles  were available.  L&G then 
arranged a Functional Capacity Evaluation (FCE) for Mr M. It said that at the assessment Mr 
M declined to do most of the tests,  so it wasnt possible  to assess  his current working 
capacity. 
Mr M has told us he wasnt uncooperative with the testing and he completed  the tests  he 
could do safely,  and wasnt prevented from doing  by pain. I accept what Mr Ms has told us, 
and even though the policy  allows L&G to decline a claim, if the person  claiming  is not willing 
to engage in or follow advice regarding rehabilitation,  I dont  think  it would be reasonable for 
L&G to decline the claim on this basis.
In June 2018 L&Gs rehabilitation team contacted Mr M. L&G say he wasnt  prepared to 
discuss his day to day activities and declined an offer of Cognitive Behavioural  Therapy 
(CBT). Mr M has told us that he didnt want to take up L&Gs  offer of CBT as hed been  
referred to a new psychotherapist and psychiatrist  and didnt want  to affect his relationship 
with them.  Again this seems reasonable and I dont think it would be fair for L&G to rely on 
this to decline his claim.
Ive also considered Mr Ms medical  records and a report from a consultant psychologist. His 
medical records confirmed a history of mechanical  back pain. And the psychologists report,  
dated July 2018, says that Mr M was initially treated for personal issues and work related 
stress, and despite treatment his mental  and physical health had deteriorated. The 
psychologist was unable  to comment Mr Ms long term working prospects. 
I accept the medical  evidence shows  that Mr M was suffered from chronic back and 
psychological problems,  and was unfit to work  at the time,  so he satisfied the first part of the 
policy requirements. But Im not persuaded that it shows that his condition  was likely to be 
permanent for the rest of his working life.
Mr M has told us that his condition has deteriorated  and has provided a letter  from his GP, 
dated 2 April 2019, which says that because of the impact of severe lower back pain, on his 
mobility, hes now using  a wheelchair. Hed been  prescribed morphine, his mental health had 
collapsed and he was being treated for increased anxiety and depression.  His GP stated the 
prognosis for Mr Ms back wasnt good, there  were  no foreseeable treatments which  would 
reverse his back pain and he feared  lack of ability and chronic pain were a long term part of 
his medical outlook.  Mr M also provided  a letter about applying for alternative  
accommodation, on one level,  with an accessible bathroom.
I dont dispute  that Mr Ms is suffering from chronic pain and that his condition has 
deteriorated and may now be considered permanent. But his GPs letter refers to his 
condition in April 2019, not when his claim was submitted to L&G. And Mr M is no longer 
covered by the policy, as hes left his employment.
Mr M has told us that his application  for PIP and ESA has now been granted  back to the time 
when he had cover  under  the policy. But his eligibility for DWP benefits was assessed on the 
Ref: DRN67449884basis of his condition  at the time of his application,  and didnt require consideration of 
whether his condition was likely  to be permanent, as the policy does.  
Im sympathetic to the difficult position Mr M finds himself in, but even though his 
employment was ended  on the grounds  of ill-health, as theres no evidence  that his condition 
was permanent, when he had cover, I dont  think L&G did anything  wrong  in declining his 
claim, and I cant ask it to reassess his claim. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for 
Mr M but I wont  be asking L&G to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint 
against Legal and General Assurance Society  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744988