K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Santander  in 1985. In 1988, they took out a PPI 
policy to protect their mortgage payments. Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered Mr S in case  he was off work sick 
or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
There doesnt seem to be any debate that Mr and Mrs S applied  for PPI of their own accord. 
They wouldve  known they didnt have to have it to get approved for their mortgage,  since  
Mr and Mrs S had already  had a mortgage with Santander for several years by the time they 
applied for PPI. And they applied for the policy separately, setting up a separate direct debit 
to pay for it  it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S applied  for PPI by post after getting a leaflet from their branch. Ive looked at 
sample copies of the PPI leaflets from around the time of Mr and Mrs Ss sale,  and from 
what Ive seen it looks like it was presented as an optional extra,  and not something they had 
to have. And from the record of the application, Ive not seen anything which indicates Mr or 
Mrs S were  put under  any unfair pressure to buy PPI. Indeed, they applied for it by post from 
the comfort of their home in their own time,  without any salesman there to add pressure. Ive 
also not seen  any wider problems with Santanders sales  process  from the time. Overall,  
I think that Santander made Mr and Mrs S aware  they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose  to take it out.
Santander didnt  give Mr and Mrs S personalised advice about  buying PPI. Mr and Mrs S 
have argued that means the policy was mis-sold.  But it does not. To explain, businesses 
were not required  or expected to give financial advice for the sale of every PPI policy. It was 
legitimate to sell these policies using non-advised methods: where the business  gave 
customers information about the policy (such  as on a leaflet) and left it up to the customers 
to decide whether they wanted  it or not, rather than advising them on what  to decide.
Ref: DRN61558472Even if Santander had given  Mr and Mrs S advice about buying PPI, that wouldve meant it 
had to check the policy was right for them  and from what Ive seen  of their circumstances 
at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt 
affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations. While he had savings and work benefits  
such as sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and it covered him for far longer 
than those lasted,  offering  him much  more comprehensive cover. The mortgage was 
secured against  the property, so Mr and Mrs S couldve lost their home if they fell behind  on 
their payments. So it seems reasonable to have insured Mr S to protect  their home  more  
comprehensively.
Santander had to give Mr and Mrs S clear  information about  the PPI, and its possible that 
that information wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  The question,  then, is whether I think 
better information was likely to have changed  their minds. Here,  Mr and Mrs S chose to take 
out PPI, and it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr S wasnt 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful in 
case something went wrong. The policy was very competitively priced  given how much it 
would pay out in a claim.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis,  so Mr and Mrs S 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  was 
likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their policy  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss policy  was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less 
than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6155847