K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc wouldnt let him close  his credit card account  over 
the phone, and that he then received poor customer service and communication through  
making his complaint.
background
Mr G had a credit card account with Bank  of Scotland that he hadnt used for sometime. It 
had a zero balance. He called  Bank of Scotland to close the account  down but wasnt able to 
do this. He complained  as he felt the adviser  was unhelpful and blocked his attempt to close  
it.
Bank of Scotland said that it hadnt been  able to complete its verification process  with Mr G 
when he phoned,  so it wasnt able to carry out his request or discuss  his account. It said it 
has security measures in place to make  sure its speaking with the correct person and these 
need to be satisfied before it can go ahead in talking to them about an account.  It then 
arranged for Mr Gs account to be closed.  
But Mr Gs credit card account was still showing on his online banking  a month later,  and he 
was concerned that it hadnt been properly closed. He attempted  to send an amount of 5p 
from his current account to the credit card as a test, and this went through.  Hed also 
received two communications in the post about the credit card. He complained to Bank of 
Scotland about this and said he wasnt happy with how it had tried to contact him using 
methods and times that he hadnt  agreed. He also said Bank  of Scotland  had disclosed his 
full postcode in an email,  when it should  only have shown the first part of it.
Bank of Scotland said Mr Gs account had been closed but it would remain viewable online 
for four months to allow for any later transactions, interest  or refunds that may appear after 
the closure. It said it was normal to be able to make a payment to the account as it wasnt 
unusual for a credit card to be closed from being  able to be used until any balance  was paid 
off. It said it tried to reach its customers to resolve complaints as soon as it could  and would 
rearrange any contact if the timing  of its contact wasnt suitable.  It said marketing 
communications were  often prepared sometime in advance so it may take time for a 
customer to stop receiving these after an account  closure. It apologised that Mr Gs full post 
code had been used by mistake in the email. It said it hadnt disclosed any information  that 
could be used to harm Mr Gs account but offered him a payment of £20.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  
She said it was the banks  responsibility  to safeguard  their customers accounts  and going  
through a security process is a way to do this. She said as Mr G wasnt  able to complete the 
verification process  over the phone with Bank  of Scotland it wasnt able to continue with his 
request. She thought Bank of Scotland had attempted  to contact  Mr G in good  faith about  his 
complaint, even though this may have been  outside  of the time frame hed requested. 
The adjudicator acknowledged that Mr Gs full postcode had been put into an email he was 
sent but didnt think  this wouldve allowed any harm to come to his account. She thought  the 
£20 it had offered  for this mistake  was reasonable. The adjudicator  also didnt think  Bank of 
Scotland had done anything wrong  with sending Mr G correspondence for his credit card 
after it had closed as these letters were generated in advance of them  being sent. 
Ref: DRN63991592She thought  Bank of Scotlands  explanation  about why the credit card still appeared on 
Mr Gs online banking and why he was able to pay 5p into it was reasonable as it allowed 
payment to reach  a recently closed credit card. She said the account would stop showing on 
Mr Gs online banking after being closed and having a zero balance for four months.
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators findings. In summary, he said she hadnt considered that 
it was as a result of him lodging his complaint that led to his account being closed. He said it 
was his choice  and right to close  the account.  He thought Bank  of Scotland was 
unreasonable not to offer him a second opportunity to answer the security  questions and 
said the advisers suggestions to call back or go to a branch were  unhelpful.  
Mr G thought the adjudicators comment about  Bank of Scotland  not always being able to 
keep to a customers  preferred  contact time was imbalanced and unfair as he wasnt  aware, 
and hadnt agreed, that he could  be contacted  outside of the ideal times hed given. He 
wouldve answered the security questions if hed been called at the time he said but not 
when he was contacted earlier than this. 
Mr G didnt believe the adjudicator could objectively say that no harm  could come to his 
account by using his full postcode in an email.  He also wasnt told that he may continue  to 
receive promotional  material  after his account was closed, and hadnt agreed to this.
Mr G said that hed held many credit cards  but had never closed an account  before it had a 
zero balance. Hed previously closed a card with Bank of Scotland  which  hadnt remained on 
his account after closure. He said his action to successfully transfer money to the closed 
card was a result of poor communication and weak systems.  Mr G also referred  to a text 
message Bank of Scotland  had sent him, which he said the adjudicator  hadnt  mentioned
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the point Mr Gs made  about the information the adjudicator  couldve  told him 
earlier in our involvement with his complaint.  However, my consideration within  this decision 
relates solely to Mr Gs complaint about  Bank  of Scotlands actions through his attempt  to 
close his account  with it.
I can understand that Mr G has been  frustrated through trying to close down a credit  card 
account that he hadnt made use of for some time. And I appreciate  why he may have felt 
that having to answer security questions over the phone, or not being  given the opportunity 
to answer alternative  questions, prevented him from doing what he wanted.
I can see that the customer service he experienced through dealing  with this and then 
through his complaint has given him cause for concern. Ive taken into account  all hes said 
alongside the information provided by Bank of Scotland.
Although I acknowledge that Bank  of Scotland has made mistakes in some of its 
communications with Mr G, I think that it has acted reasonably with how it has dealt with his 
request to close his credit  card account. There  are a number of different aspects that make  
up Mr Gs overall  complaint and, for ease, Ive addressed these separately.
Ref: DRN63991593customer identity verification
I dont think its unreasonable to expect a bank to want to verify a customers identity when  
dealing with them over the phone, particularly when this could involve disclosing account 
specific information or accepting instructions such as it would have done for Mr G. Bank of 
Scotland has processes in place to do this but was unable to verify  Mr Gs identity to 
continue to speak  to him about this account on that occasion. It may just have been one 
question that he wasnt able to answer correctly, but this meant  that he didnt  meet Bank of 
Scotlands verification  requirements to continue with that particular call. Its because of this 
that he was told to call back or visit a branch.  I dont  think this was unhelpful, when the 
adviser was suggesting ways  that Mr G could complete what he wanted to do.
actions relating to the closure of the account
The credit card was closed down after Mr G made his complaint but continued to appear on 
his online  banking. But this didnt mean  it wasnt closed. Although  in Mr Gs case  the account 
hadnt been used for some time, for other customers it may be that an account  still has a 
balance to be repaid; a refund could  credit the account or residual interest may be applied  
after the account is closed from being  able to be used for further  spending. I appreciate that 
Mr G may not have been specifically advised that he would still be able to see this account 
online, but I dont think hes been disadvantaged by this, particularly as this account 
wouldve been showing  for sometime before with a nil balance. He chose to add 5p to the 
account as a test, and I understand why he did this. But he also could  have contacted Bank 
of Scotland to query why the account was still showing. 
And I can understand Mr Gs point  about the account only being  closed after he made  his 
complaint. But this seems  to me to be because his request couldnt have been processed 
when he first phoned, and this is what  caused him to then raise  his complaint. He was told 
he could call back, which would mean  he would be able to try and complete a new set of 
security verification over the phone or he could visit a branch. Its likely that either of these 
would have resulted in him being  able to close his account, if theyd been attempted before 
he complained.
Bank of Scotlands communications  with Mr G.
Marketing material and account related correspondence such as those that Mr G received 
can often be prepared in advance and so may still be sent out after an account has been  
closed. I appreciate that Mr G may not have been specifically told this could be the case and 
that receiving them  during  a time when  he was concerned that his account  hadnt been 
closed caused  confusion.  But again  I dont think hes been disadvantaged  by this.
However I can see that Bank of Scotland made some mistakes in its communications  with 
Mr G. It has apologised for its mistake in including Mr Gs full postcode in an email 
acknowledging his complaint. Ive seen a copy of this message which  gives  the complaint 
handlers contact details and explains that they will call him about his concerns. The 
postcode is given to confirm its an authorised email  from Bank  of Scotland,  but should only 
have shown the first part of it. So, although  I acknowledge what  hes said about the potential 
harm this inclusion  couldve caused, I cant see that it gives  any specific  account  related 
information for Mr Gs credit card.
Ref: DRN63991594I can also see that a text message sent to Mr G was wrongly addressed  in relation to his 
name and that of Bank of Scotlands representative.  It isnt clear whether  this was an 
automated message or why the names  were wrong.  But I think  the message  was clear 
enough for Mr G to understand that Bank  of Scotland would be contacting  him, even if it 
didnt give the name  of the representative.
Bank of Scotland gave Mr G an opportunity to select what times  of the day he would prefer  
to be contacted in, so I can understand that he may have been more  cautious in answering  
questions over the phone, if he wasnt expecting to be called at an earlier time. But I dont 
think this in itself is unreasonable, when Bank of Scotland  was looking to address his 
concerns and resolve his complaint.
Overall, although I acknowledge Mr Gs strength of feeling about  the service  he received, I 
think Bank of Scotlands explanations; apology and offer of £20 represent a fair resolution to 
his complaint. 
I understand that it has written to Mr G confirming the date the account was closed and that 
the 5p balance  on the account could mean  it carries on appearing on his online banking.  I 
can only suggest that Mr G contacts Bank of Scotland directly should  he wish this 5p 
balance to be returned to him and if he wants to accept its offer of £20.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6399159