K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has not dealt properly with his claim for a 
refund under  s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  following  a defective installation  of a 
chimney lining at his home. 
background
In May 2017  Mr B paid £1950 using his Nationwide Credit Card to a third party installer to 
install a chimney lining at his home. Mr B explains that the installation  was described as non-
invasive and essentially involved pouring a liquid called thermocrete into the chimney  that 
would set and create  a suitable lining. Mr B then had a wood-burning stove installed by 
another company.
In January 2018 Mr B contacted the installer  and said that his neighbour was reporting  
problems with a soot or smoke smell coming  from his property. Further investigations in April 
2018 established that as a result of a narrowing in Mr Bs chimney the installation  of the liner 
had not been properly  completed leaving a void. This had an impact on the safety of the 
wood burning  stove  and the engineer refused to reconnect the wood burning stove and 
revoked the gas safe certificate.
In June 2018 the installer visited the property and made test holes. The installer confirmed 
that the liner had not been correctly installed because  of a narrowing in the chimney. The 
installer agreed to return to the property to make good the installation  and the test holes at 
no cost to Mr B. Mr B did not agree and wants a refund of the price he has paid. Nationwide  
has said in its final response letter that as the installer has not been  given a chance to repair  
or make good the installation it is not prepared to refund Mr B under s75.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that it 
was reasonable  to allow the installer  to return to make good  the defects. He said that 
Nationwide had been fair and reasonable in its handling of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the installation  was defective and could 
not be made good. He was promised a non-invasive  solution and this has not been the case.  
He provided a letter from the stove installation company which suggested that any patching 
up of the lining would not be successful. Mr B also refers to a report  from his local Trading 
Standards department which confirmed  that the installation  was poor. He asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. This is the last stage in our process.
      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I have reached  the same  conclusions as the investigator and I agree that 
Nationwide has correctly  handled this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  sets out that a provider  of credit can also be 
held responsible, as well as the trader if goods or services arent of satisfactory quality. So 
Nationwide, as the provider of the credit for the chimney  lining, also has responsibility  for the 
quality of the service.
Ref: DRN64269412There is no dispute that the chimney  lining isnt of satisfactory quality and it isnt fit for 
purpose. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the provider is allowed one opportunity to 
repair or replace  the goods. If the repair is unsuccessful or a replacement isnt possible then 
Mr B should  be entitled to his money  back.
Nationwide has said that because Mr B hasnt given  the installer a chance to put things right 
it isnt upholding  his complaint for a refund. I agree that the installer should be given an 
opportunity to put matters right for Mr B. 
Mr B has said that a non-invasive solution isnt possible and this isnt what  he paid for. It is 
unfortunate that the structural issue with his chimney wasnt  established beforehand  and that 
the test holes have caused damage. However,  the installer has agreed to make good the 
damage at no cost to Mr B so I dont think that this is enough by itself for me to say Mr B 
should have a full refund.
The installer considers  that it is possible to rectify the installation  so that Mr B can have his 
wood burning  stove  re-installed. Although Mr B has obtained a letter from his stove supplier, 
this is not an expert report from an individual with extensive experience of carrying  out these 
installations. It appears  to be based on what was said by Mr B about the installation process 
rather than reliant on an inspection of the chimney  lining. I dont consider that this is enough 
to say that the installation cannot be rectified, especially since I dont know  what remedial  
work the original installer proposes to carry out.
I dont doubt that this experience has been  stressful for Mr B and I also fully accept that the 
chimney lining has not been installed to a satisfactory standard. I dont disagree with the 
comments made in the letter to Mr B from Trading Standards which  sets out that the 
installation is unsatisfactory but the author of that letter is not an expert either.
I can see that Mr B was given the following advice from Trading Standards in their letter  
dated 20 December  2018, 
I would recommend  that you seek the services  of a surveyor to properly assess the 
current condition of the chimney  and lining, and what is needed to remedy the 
situation. They should be able to comment on the issues regarding  Building 
Regulation requirements and provide you with some  options. 
In the absence of such  information  from a surveyor I dont  have enough evidence to say that 
the remedial works proposed by the installer  would  not fix the issues and allow Mr B to have 
his wood burner  re-installed  and a gas safe certificate issued. I cant  say that Nationwide  
were wrong to refuse  to refund Mr B without  the installer having a chance  to remedy  the 
problems.
I appreciate that this decision  will be a disappointment to Mr B and I do understand why he is 
reluctant to allow the installer to return.  However, I cant  say that Nationwide  are wrong  to 
refuse to refund  him on the basis of the evidence I have seen. If the installer cannot fix the 
problems to a satisfactory  standard then it would be open to Mr B to return  to Nationwide  
and have his complaint  re-opened.
Ref: DRN64269413my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6426941