K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  this policy that provided  joint cover, in May 2004  some years after 
taking out their mortgage. Due to the time that has passed,  its not totally clear how Mr and 
Mrs G applied for this PPI policy, but it is thought  to have been in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs G for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £254.66 a month  towards 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim by either  of them.  At the 
time, it cost £30.00  a month. 
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a Refuse Collector. He has told us he was entitled  to 
sick pay up from his employer for 12 months  and would have received a redundancy 
payment and death in service. Mr G has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs G was employed as a Retail Assistant. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick 
pay or other  work benefits. Mrs G has said she was also in good  health at the time of the 
sale. 
Mr and Mrs G have also indicated they had no savings or other means of repaying their 
mortgage should they be unable to work
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in August 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs G about  the poor value;  
Ref: DRN68831852The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in August 2004. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN68831853This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Gs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN68831854Whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs G had taken out their mortgage in 1997 and this PPI policy was taken out a 
number of years later in 2004. There is no documentary evidence available  from the time but 
in order to take out a policy at a totally separate time to the mortgage, an application form for 
the PPI and the chosen split of the cover would  have  been needed. So I think it should have 
been clear that this PPI policy was a totally separate product to the mortgage  and Mr and 
Mrs G would known they had a choice about  taking it out.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS has said advice  would have been  given  to Mr and Mrs G and Mr and Mrs G have not 
disagreed with that approach.  
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G. It seems Mr and Mrs G cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs G would have  been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest BOS considered whether either 
Mr G or Mrs G had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN68831855While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Both Mr and Mrs G met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Gs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments may have  been  put under strain  if Mr G 
or Mrs G were  not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick 
pay and redundancy Mr G says he would have  been entitled to, and Mrs G would not 
have received any sick pay and any redundancy benefit was likely to be limited. And 
they didnt have any savings they could fall back on. So the policy would have helped 
Mr and Mrs G manage the consequences  if either of them were unable  to work.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs G, as 
no evidence has been provided to indicate  the PPI wasnt  affordable. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about either  Mr G or Mrs Gs employment or occupations which  
would have made it difficult for them to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  either of them having the ability to claim. 
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, this was longer than Mr G would have 
received any sick pay, so it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances.
While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr G or Mrs G be disabled  or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  
for a maximum of 24 months for each  claim,  it still provided  valuable cover given 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the mortgage 
repayments relating  to their home, and the potential consequences should Mr and 
Mrs G be unable to make  the repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr G or Mrs G were  unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs G 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN68831856Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded BOS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Gs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs G. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs G suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs G would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN68831857Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe[s] I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised  them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cannot be sure from the evidence available that BOS told them  
the exact premium  at the point Mr and Mrs G applied for the policy.  Having said that, it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs G would have been  told the cost before the policy started, so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with BOS at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not certain that BOS made  clear  exactly  what  Mr and Mrs G would get back  
in return, in the event they made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Gs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  either Mr G or Mrs 
B had to be unable  to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified them  to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
Ref: DRN68831858on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Both Mr G and Mrs G were  eligible 
for its benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions,  couldve 
proved valuable to them  should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen 
any evidence to suggest either  Mr G or Mrs G wouldve been caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  they didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  and were both in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
G might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs G from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs G, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably be qualified  
for, it might have played into their thinking about what they would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  its possible they may not have been  
overly concerned given  that if either  Mr G or Mrs G were unable (through  disability)  to carry 
on their own occupation  the chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation  
would also, in all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made  would be limited to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 24 months was a longer period than Mr G would have received full sick pay for and his 
redundancy entitlement would also have  been significantly less than 24 months income.  
And Mrs G had no employment benefits and they had no other resources to fall back  on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Gs sick pay or redundancy money 
for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if either  of them  was made  
redundant or was unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN68831859Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs G and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN688318510and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 February  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6883185