K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about Business Loan  Network Limited (trading as ThinCats.com) failing to 
present accurate information on several  loans he invested in on its peer to peer lending 
platform.
background
ThinCats is a peer to peer internet-based lending platform where a group of individual 
lenders contribute towards a larger aggregate loan to a single borrower.  The loans are 
auctioned so that individual lenders can participate and make a bid. Once a bid is made, the 
specified amount  of money from the member account will be allocated to that bid. Once the 
borrower accepts enough  bids to meet its aggregate lending requirement, ThinCats enter 
into a loan agreement  with the borrower on behalf of all the lenders. 
Mr W made a number  of investments through his personal account in several loans on 
ThinCats platform. He invested a total of £38,000  in three  companies  owned by the same 
director. For the purpose of this decision,  Ive referred to the borrower  companies  as 
Company A, B and C. Mr Ws investments were as follows:
Company A 
In tranche one of this loan Mr W bid £3,000  at a time to make a total of £9,000 in February 
2016. Company  A sought a total loan of £180,000  for a 12-month term. It had a fixed  interest 
rate of 11.75%  with a loan to value of 52%.  
In tranche two of this loan Mr W bid £5,000  and then a further £3,000  in February  2016.  
Company A was seeking to borrow a further £170,000 for a 12-month term. It had a fixed 
interest rate of 11.25% with a loan to value of 0-30%. 
In tranche three  of this loan Mr W bid £3,000 and then a further £1,000 in February 2016. 
Company A was seeking to borrow an additional £170,000 for a 12-month term. It had a 
fixed interest rate of 13.50% with a loan to value of 30%-60%. 
The purpose of all three loan tranches was for development finance  to allow  for capital 
works, asset purchase and exit through sale.  
All three loan tranches  detailed  that the security entailed a first fixed  and floating charge over 
the company,  a first legal charge over freehold  land and buildings,  intercompany guarantees 
from all associated businesses and a personal  guarantee from the company director.  The 
directors personal assets were detailed as the following:
assets with their partner of around £10 million  of which £5 million related to their 
principal residence plus other  investment land/properties;
family trust with further assets of around £3 million which  included  land and shares in 
its parent  company;
bank liabilities of £1.7 million; 
after liabilities, without  taking into account joint assets or the trust, the director  owned  
in their own right around £3.5 million.
Ref: DRN67384472The information pack also set out the fallback and recovery process as follows:
The subject of what  would happen in the event of a distressed situation is something both 
the Sponsor and the Borrower have discussed  in detail.
Regular monitoring enhanced by communication from the borrower  and his professionals are
the first element of monitoring regarding performance and stress.
That in respect of this development  the first position is exit by sale. Should  that not 
be achieved then this would revert to refinance with the agreed facility  from the 
issuing Bank.
For whatever reason  should this fail then arrangements  would be made with for 
either a Group internal  purchase.
Should that fail then an external  lending  product  would be sought.
Should that fail then the assets  due to the combined LTV could be sold at auction
Should that fail then inter group funds would have to cover that position.
Should that fail then the shareholding trust and the guarantor would be required to 
perform.
There are significant layers of fallback  positions so as to protects lenders interests.
Reputationally the Company due to its close associations with the Group and its professional
relationships it would be highly undesirable for the Company to fail and so there are
considerable safeguards put in place to cover this position.
Company B 
In tranche two of this loan Mr W bid £8,000  in April 2016. Company B was seeking  £225,000 
for a 30-month term with a fixed interest rate of 13.45%. The information showed combined 
security (taking into account previous loans)  of £1,086 million, giving a loan to value of 44%.  
In addition, the property/business  being acquired achieved  an annual  income  of around 
£60,000.
The purpose of this loan was for commercial investment  and capital raising for capital 
expenditure. The security  entailed  a first fixed and floating charge over the company, a first 
legal charge over freehold land and buildings, first charge over new assets acquired and a 
personal guarantee from the company director. 
The directors personal assets, and the fallback and recovery process were the same as that 
listed above, under Company A. 
Company C 
In tranche one of this loan Mr W bid £2,000  and then a further £2,000 in December 2016. 
Company C sought  £400,000 for a 14-month  term with an interest rate of 11.5%.
In tranche two of this loan Mr W bid £2,000  and then a further £3,000  in December 2016. 
Company C sought  to borrow a further  £500,000 for an 18-month term with an interest rate 
of 12%.  
Ref: DRN67384473The purpose of both loan tranches was to repay  existing loans and for the development of a 
project and had a loan to value of 62%. The security for both loan tranches entailed a first 
debenture over the company (all loans ranked equally), omnibus guarantee from all group 
companies, first legal charge over the portfolio of property with an OMV of £3,335,000 and a 
personal guarantee from the director for the full amount. 
In May 2018  Company A, B and C went into administration and the director was made 
bankrupt in July 2018, as a result Mr W complained to ThinCats.
Mr W says he made investments in these  loans because of the securities  that were in place. 
In particular, the first charge/debenture on the loans and the relatively  low loan to values, 
attracted him to invest. He also says the valuations were completed by quantity surveyors. 
So, taking all of this into account, he had felt confident  that he would have been  able to 
recover his capital, if the market crashed. Mr W says ThinCats  has been negligent in failing 
to provide accurate disclosure and has mis-led investors as the quality of the loans were 
overstated. Mr W would  like ThinCats  to return his investment funds in full and pay interest.   
ThinCats says its pursuing  claims against  third parties with regards to their conduct, 
including the sponsors  who provided information  and made representations in the 
information packs. As part of the initial review,  ThinCats identified  a limited  number  of cases  
where the loans  had not received the benefit of the security set out in the relevant 
information packs and ThinCats had purchased those loans.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws concerns, and thought  Mr W wasnt provided 
with clear, fair and not misleading information about  the loans. She thought  it was likely that 
if Mr W had been provided  with clear and accurate  information, he wouldnt have invested in 
these loans. Her reasons were as follows:
based on the information packs for each loan, Mr W wouldve  been under the 
impression that any risk he was taking was mitigated by the security  it had in place 
and the prepared strategy to protect him;
the reasonably  low loan to value  figures  suggested that should the worst happen,  
Mr W had a good chance of recuperating the funds he had invested;
ThinCats had a responsibility to ensure the information presented  was reliable and 
not mis-leading.  ThinCats hadnt provided evidence of the due diligence  checks  it 
carried out;
whilst  the terms and conditions set out that lenders were also responsible for 
undertaking their own due diligence checks and seeking independent investment  
advice where necessary,  ThinCats  needed to comply with the rules set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA);
ThinCats pursuing the sponsors  suggests it acknowledges the checks  carried out 
were negligent;     
if the security described  in the information  packs had been in place than its more  
likely than not the capital invested  by lenders would be returned to them.
Ref: DRN67384474Our investigator thought Mr W wanted  to invest in peer to peer loans,  so it was likely that he 
would have still invested in similar  loans in any event and probably would have re-invested in 
these funds had the loans  been  repaid by the end of their term. To put things right, she 
thought ThinCats  should:
calculate how much  Mr W received back from his initial investment, including any 
funds that have been recovered and returned to him; 
then calculate  how much Mr W wouldve  received  had he received an average  rate of 
return for the loans  of similar risk across  the platform from the date of investment 
until the date of settlement;
if the second was greater  than the first then ThinCats should  pay Mr W the 
difference;
if the first was greater  than the second  then Mr W hadnt suffered a financial  loss so 
no compensation was payable;  
if recovery was ongoing  at the date of settlement, ThinCats should take ownership of 
the loans. If that was not possible,  then ThinCats  could  request an undertaking from 
Mr W that he should repay ThinCats any amount  he may receive from the recovery  
distributions in the future.
Mr W accepted.  He raised concern that ThinCats  had introduced its own star rating  on later 
loans. Mr W asserted that if ThinCats  hadnt completed due diligence  checks then it 
shouldnt be making  such ratings.
ThinCats disagreed  with the view. In summary,  it said:
each loan should be considered on a case by case  basis  taking into account  the 
platforms terms and conditions at the time of investment, the specific  information 
made available to the lenders, the due diligence under  taken by the lender,  the time 
Mr W made the bid on the loan and whether  it was purchased  on the primary or 
secondary market;
whilst  security is offered, it can depreciate and dissipate in value;
terms and conditions  made it clear ThinCats did not have a responsibility to verify all 
the information contained within the loan proposals provided by the sponsor and 
borrower. All valuations  and supporting  documents were  provided by the sponsor 
and borrower from third party experts such as solicitors and valuers, so ThinCats was 
entitled to rely upon them  and had not failed in any duty to the lenders;
there was a time lapse between a loan proposal  placed on the platform and an 
auction starting as lenders were required to carry out their own due diligence  and the 
platform offered a Q&A  facility so all potential investors could ask questions or 
request for more  information from the borrower  and sponsor;
ThinCats had brought claims against  the third parties as each lender could not bring 
proceedings individually, this did not amount to a concession of negligence;
ThinCats terms conditions set out the risk warnings, an explanation  of the secondary 
market and the role of the security trustee  and agent;
ThinCats has always acted in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions and 
acted with due skill, care and attention. The ongoing recovery process at its own cost 
demonstrates it is fulfilling its duty to its lenders as lender agent and security  trustee;
Ref: DRN67384475ThinCats  doesnt agree with the redress proposal as it doesnt  take into account the 
lenders requirement of completing their own due diligence, understanding of the risk 
of lending, secured or otherwise.  ThinCats should not take ownership of the loans 
during the recovery process as lenders are made aware  in the terms and conditions  
that the lender  makes  an individual loan to the borrower. 
Our investigator clarified her view and said that the obligation to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the loans rested with ThinCats. Whilst their terms and 
conditions suggested  that an investor should  carry out their own checks, this didnt change 
the regulatory obligation on ThinCats. And whilst  it was open  to ThinCats to delegate the 
checks to a sponsor  and third party, ultimately, they remained  responsible  if the information 
obtained and then held as being reliable, turned out to be misleading or inaccurate. Investors  
needed to be in a position to make an informed decision as to risk. The 2018 FCA 
consultation paper simply clarified how the rules  that were already in existence, ought to be 
interpreted for peer to peer lending.
ThinCats maintains  that it was reasonable to undertake a plausibility check, in which it relied 
upon valuations  which appeared to have been  prepared by RICS  registered valuers. It says 
there was nothing to suggest that there was an issue with the veracity of these documents at 
the time.  ThinCats says it relied  upon due diligence checks being undertaken by sponsor.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. 
In reaching my conclusions on this complaint,  Ive taken into account the wider obligations 
on ThinCats. This includes good  industry  practice, and any applicable  guidance or rules  from 
the FCA.
At the time of promoting Company A, B and Cs investment opportunity, ThinCats  was 
authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant  rules and regulations FCA regulated  
firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients 
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
ThinCats was also required to act in accordance  with the rules  set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
Ref: DRN67384476COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
So before holding out the promotional material provided by Company A, B and C, ThinCats 
needed to satisfy itself that the material itself was clear, fair and not misleading. And it also 
needed to be satisfied that by approving  the promotion and allowing its customers  to invest  
in Company A, B and C it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. Its not 
disputed that ThinCats  did not provide investment  advice.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied at the time Mr W invested, these are 
dated 30 September 2015. Under Section  21 Liability it states:
2. We will use all reasonable endeavours to provide BLNs services  with reasonable care 
and skill and to seek ways in which the risks can be minimised.
3. We will take care to ensure that our communications are clear,  fair and not misleading.
This express  recognition within the terms and conditions, shows  that Thincats was aware of 
the requirements around information provision. 
These terms and conditions did not expressly state  that it was for the lender to undertake 
their own due diligence.  But Ive seen the statement  at page 1 of the terms and conditions 
document, which says,  Since investors  are making  their own decisions they have only 
themselves to blame for those decisions.  In other  words, ThinCats  thought it was for Mr W 
to satisfy himself that the investments were right for him. ThinCats  set out risk warnings, an 
explanation of the secondary market and the role of the security trustee and agent in its 
terms and conditions.
For investments after 26 February 2016, ThinCats rely upon different terms and conditions,  
particularly sections 4.7 and 10.10,  which expressly state that whilst  ThinCats  would take 
reasonable efforts to review each information pack, it relied  upon  the information  provided 
by the sponsor and borrower and could not vouch  for the accuracy of the information 
provided. ThinCats relied, upon  the information  by the borrower and sponsor  as to the 
accuracy, fairness, truth, completeness and non-misleading character of the details 
contained in the information pack.
It was open to ThinCats to present the information provided from the sponsor to investors  for 
their consideration and its fair to say that as no advice  was being given, it was for each 
investor to decide  whether or to the investment  was suitable for them.  But it was for 
ThinCats to undertake due diligence checks on the promotional information to be satisfied 
that the information being presented on its platform was clear, fair and not misleading, to 
enable investors  to make an informed  decision.  ThinCats repeatedly says the due diligence 
checks were down  to the investor, but this evidences a fundamental misunderstanding  of its 
responsibilities. And it isnt fair and reasonable for ThinCats to try to exclude their regulatory 
responsibilities under the later terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN67384477ThinCats also say it was entirely reasonable  to assume everything was in order  from the 
face of the documents  provided. At its highest, its said it undertook a plausibility check, 
relying upon the valuations allegedly prepared by a RICS registered valuer. Further  that it 
was for investors to put questions  to the sponsor through  the platform. I dont think  simply 
looking at the face of a document that was central to the reliability of the security for the 
loans was enough. In the applicable terms and conditions from 2015  ThinCats  held itself out 
as being unusual as it only makes  secured loans; it was not unreasonable to expect that it 
would check whether the loans were indeed secured, otherwise the whole premise  on which  
investments were made  would have been misleading.
Theres nothing prescribed by the FCA as to what reasonable checks  might involve and I 
agree that reasonable checks  vary according  to the particular circumstances. But, despite 
reasonable requests, theres nothing  to show that ThinCats  undertook any other  checks or 
steps to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material. It was an obvious risk that if the information was 
inaccurate, investors would be unable to make  an informed decision about the level of risk 
they would  be exposed to when choosing  whether  to invest.  Further,  the sponsor was paid 
by the borrower,  so due diligence checks were a common-sense step to minimise the risk of 
misleading information being shared and to maintain transparency. 
Ive also borne in mind  that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential  
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Whilst ThinCats are right to say that Mr W invested  prior to the publication  of the consultation 
paper, I dont think that makes a material different. The paper simply clarifies the 
interpretation and application of the rules and guidance which  were already  applicable  to 
ThinCats at the time. And Im mindful that the 2013 consultation on crowdfunding also 
highlighted that investors should  be provided  with clear, fair and not misleading information 
so as to be able to make  informed decisions.  The importance of disclosure  was highlighted, 
namely, that it should be clear to investors  how much due diligence  had been conducted.
In this case, the information packs about the loans for the various companies,  listed  several 
securities as well as the loan to value for each loan. ThinCats now admit that, as part of the 
process of defaulting  the loans, the value of the securities had diminished or were  likely 
over-inflated at the time the loans were  promoted to lenders.  ThinCats refer to a dichotomy 
between the valuations stated in the valuations provided by the sponsor and the borrower. 
Further, ThinCats say generally that other  details  were  mispresented in the information 
packs and in responses to lenders on the platform,  including provision of misleading 
information on the platform about  the security ranking  of some of the loans. I also note that 
ThinCats took over other loans where securities werent in place at all. The 
misrepresentations have formed  the basis of claims now being  pursued against the third 
parties.
Ref: DRN67384478In the absence of any supporting evidence from ThinCats at all, Im not satisfied on the 
balance of probabilities that reasonable checks were carried out about the accuracy and 
reliability of information provided about these  loans. I think it is more likely  than not that 
appropriately detailed  checks  wouldve  identified  issues before the promotions were 
approved. I also think thats  a reasonable inference to draw  given the lack of information 
from ThinCats coupled with the admission that all of the companies went  into administration  
by May 2018, following  an earlier inability meet the capital and interest repayments from May 
2017.
I cant say whether ThinCats  would have granted approval for Company A, B and Cs loans 
to be published  on its platform, if such checks had been performed. But even if it had 
decided to approve the loans, despite what it found,  ThinCats would have been obliged  to 
share accurate information with prospective  investors under the requirement to provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information.
 
Mr W has consistently explained that he relied upon the information provided and had 
wanted to invest  in secured loans with a loan to value of around 45%-65%. So, I consider it 
is likely  that Mr W would  not have  invested had some of these securities and/or loan to 
values not been as stated, as hed have been  exposed to more  risk than he wanted to take.  
It may be that ThinCats  has subsequently taken  advice  and legal action to try and maximise 
returns for the lenders after the loans  defaulted.  But these steps occurred after the 
information had been relied upon  and the investments had been made, so they cant  cure 
the original shortcomings by ThinCats. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I consider that it is fair and reasonable for 
ThinCats to put things  right.  
putting things right
When looking to put things right for Mr W, my aim is to put him as close as possible to the 
position he wouldve  been in but for ThinCats error.  
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied Mr W wouldnt have  gone ahead  with his investment. 
But I do think that Mr W wanted to invest in peer to peer lending. So, if not in these particular 
loans, Im satisfied Mr W wouldve still invested in similar loans if hed had the chance. Im 
bolstered in that view,  by Mr Ws concession  that he holds like investments (which have not 
lost capital).
Mr W had invested in several loans at different  times, so I think  he wouldve probably  re-
invested his funds had the loans been  repaid by the end of their terms. 
So, to put him back in the position  he wouldve  been  in had things not gone  wrong,  I think 
that ThinCats should calculate how much Mr W has received back  from his initial  investment
 including  any funds  that have been recovered  and returned  to him (A)  the actual value.
It should then calculate how much Mr W wouldve received, had he received an average net 
rate of return for loans across the platform from the date of investment until the date of 
settlement. (B)  the fair value.
If B is greater than A, ThinCats should pay Mr W the difference. If A is greater than B, then 
Mr W hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will be no financial compensation to pay.
Ref: DRN67384479If recovery actions are still ongoing  at the date of settlement, and provided Mr W agrees
to the redress Ive proposed, ThinCats  should  take ownership of the loans. 
If it is not possible for ThinCats  to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from 
Mr W that he repays any amount he may receive from the recovery distributions  in the 
future. It wouldnt be fair for Mr W to benefit  from any future payments received from the 
loans when hes already been  compensated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Business Loans Network 
Limited to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6738447