K821x#15complaint
Mr Q complains about a car he bought with finance provided by Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
background
In February 2018  Mr Q bought a used car under a hire purchase agreement with Startline. In 
April he complained about various  issues  with the car. The car was inspected  by a third 
party, who reported  that the problems  complained  about were the result of significant  
modifications made to the car. Mr Q complains  that the modifications meant that the car 
would not pass  its MOT, was not covered by his insurance policy,  and made  the car 
essentially un-driveable.
It is not in dispute  that the modifications had been made before Mr Q bought  the car. But 
Startline and the third party who inspected the car both say that the modifications should 
have been obvious, even  to a person with no particular knowledge or experience of cars. 
Startline therefore  said it was not liable  for the resulting problems. It said the dealer had 
offered to fix two of the issues, which would enable  the car to pass  its MOT. But it would not 
agree to let him reject the car.
Mr Q said he had asked the dealer at the point  of sale if any modifications had been made to 
the car, and he had been told that there  had not. But Startline  said that neither it nor the 
dealer had any record of that conversation. In support of his case, Mr Q pointed  out that the 
dealer had also sold him a warranty which said it was void if the car was modified.
Being dissatisfied with Startlines response to his complaint, Mr Q approached our Service. 
Our adjudicator upheld  his complaint. He accepted that the dealer had told Mr Q that there 
had been no modifications to the car. He recommended that Startline arrange for the car to 
be collected at no cost to Mr Q, and that his payments be refunded,  with interest  on the 
refunds.
Startline did not accept that recommendation.  It maintained that it must have been obvious  
to Mr Q that modifications had been made  to the car, and gave reasons for this, referring in 
particular to the independent  report.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 9(1) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies into a contract  for the supply of goods  
to a consumer  a term that the goods  will be of satisfactory quality. However, section 9(3) 
says that this does  not apply to anything which is specifically drawn to the consumers 
attention before the contract is made,  or, if the consumer  examines the goods  before the 
contract is made, anything which he ought to have spotted. Startline  is liable for any breach 
of the implied  term by the dealer, unless section 9(3) applies. So if, before Mr Q bought  the 
car, he was told about the modifications, or if he examined the car and should have noticed 
them, then Startline wont be liable for a breach of contract. He says he was not told about 
them, and he says he did not examine the car before he bought  it.
Ref: DRN61908162Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Startline is also liable for any 
misrepresentation made by the dealer before the car was sold.  So if the dealer wrongly told 
Mr Q that the car had not been modified, then Startline will be liable for that.
I have read the independent report,  which  includes several photographs of the car. The 
suspension had been modified, so that the car was lower than is standard.  The fuel pump, 
fuel injectors, air filter,  and intercooler were non-standard. There  was no exhaust  catalyst,  
and the engine ECU had been  reprogrammed  to compensate for this. There was a non-
standard pipe in the engine bay, connected  to a booster gauge  inside the car which had 
been fitted into a heater  vent.  The report concluded  that the car had been modified 
extensively, apparently  with the aim of significantly increasing its horsepower. This had 
resulted in a number of problems, including increased engine stress. The absence of an 
exhaust catalyst was likely to mean that the car would not pass its next MOT. The overall  
effect was likely to have increased  the power output  at the cost of making the car more 
expensive and less reliable over time. This evidence is not in dispute and I accept it.
The final paragraph  of the report is not entirely coherent, but appears to be intended to 
convey that Mr Q would have been  aware of the modifications at the point of sale.  Other 
paragraphs of the report seem  to suggest  that the modifications were obvious,  for the 
following reasons:
The suspension springs were yellow.
The pipes connecting to the intercooler were  made of blue silicone.
No exhaust  catalyst was visible.
As a result  of the modification to the exhaust,  there was no room  for a spare wheel.
The booster  gauge had been fitted where  an internal heater vent used to be.
There was a sticker on a side window which carried the name  of a performance 
modification specialist  company.
There was another  such sticker next to the engine, albeit only visible  when the 
bonnet was opened.
(The report gives several  other  reasons why it concluded that there  had been  modifications, 
but these are the ones which I think are suggested  should be obvious  to anyone.)
Later on, the dealer  told Startline in an email that any person with no mechanical knowledge 
would immediately have  been able to tell that the car had been modified. That opinion was 
largely based on the report and the photographs  therein, but the dealer also suggested that 
Mr Q ought to have noticed  that the car was significantly  louder  than a standard car, due to 
the changes made to the exhaust system.
Startline also provided a recording of a phone  call with Mr Q, in which  it said that Mr Q had 
told it that he had known that the car had been  lowered,  and that he had seen the stickers. In 
that call he had also said that his previous car had been a sports car, which  felt the same as 
the new car when  he drove it. He said he liked the look and feel of sports cars.
All of that evidence,  if taken on its own, would suggest that Mr Q was aware of the 
modifications at the point  of sale. However, his own evidence was that although he had been  
aware that the car had been lowered, he had not been aware of the other modifications, in 
particular the modifications to the engine. The lowering of the car would not, by itself, affect 
the engine, or cause  the car to fail its MOT.  He had seen the stickers, but had not realised 
that they indicated that the engine had been modified. That, he said,  would  only have 
become apparent on a close inspection of the engine, or on analysis of the ECU, and the 
Ref: DRN61908163author of the report had done both of those things. Mr Q had not inspected the engine  
himself before buying the car, or the ECU, or the exhaust.
On the advice of a friend, Mr Q had asked the dealer if the car had been  modified, and the 
answer had been  no. Startline says that there  is no evidence to support that claim,  but there 
is no evidence to contradict it either. Mr Qs own account of what was discussed is the only 
evidence before me about what was said at the point of sale.
The dealer  also sold Mr Q a warranty which, according to its terms, was void if the car was 
modified. That is not in dispute. Ive seen the warranty  and the relevant term. Our adjudicator 
asked why this warranty had been  sold, but no answer has ever been given to this question.  
So I consider this to be probative evidence in Mr Qs favour. It strongly supports his claim 
that the dealer had denied  that the car had been  modified. Even  if Mr Q had not alleged that 
the dealer had expressly said as much, the sale of the warranty,  by itself, is a clear 
implication that the car had not been  modified. Therefore, either  the dealer was unaware  of 
the modifications (in which  case they were not obvious), or he was aware of them and sold 
the warranty anyway  (in which case he was dishonest). Either conclusion  lends support to 
Mr Qs description  of the sale.
Mr Q has also provided a photograph he took of an advert for the car, which Ive seen. The 
description of the car includes the phrase 189 BHP, which I take to mean brake  
horsepower. A simple internet search  reveals  that this is the standard BHP for this make and 
model of car (a Vauxhall Corsa 1.6). Mr Q says the BHP of the car he bought is over 240. 
I havent seen  evidence of that figure,  but the independent  report  does suggest that the BHP 
is much  higher than normal, which is Mr Qs point. He argues that the advert  is written  
evidence that the car was sold without mention of any modifications capable of affecting the 
BHP  in other words,  that it was sold as having  standard performance.  That would suggest 
that the engine and exhaust modifications  were  not advertised.
Mr Q also relies on the pre-delivery inspection document,  which is a lengthy  checklist  of 
various attributes  of the car. I have seen this, and I note that the entries for exhaust system  
condition and engine:  hoses, lines and fittings  have both been ticked, indicating that they 
were satisfactory. Since both had actually been modified to such  an extent that the car would 
not pass its MOT, this is further evidence which suggests that the dealer did not declare the 
modifications.
I have listened  to the call recording.  During  the call, Startlines call handler read aloud  some 
paragraphs of the report, ending with a paragraph  which stated that the appearance  of the 
intercooler suggested that it had been  replaced with a non-standard one, and that the blue 
silicone pipes were  non-standard. The call handler then said I wouldnt know  what that was 
either. I have seen  the pipes in the photos  in the report, and it would not have been obvious 
to me that they were  not standard.
I would not expect every consumer to look under the car to examine the exhaust pipe, or to 
notice that there was no spare wheel because  the exhaust was taking  up too much room 
where the spare wheel  goes. So I dont think the modification to the exhaust was obvious.
Since Mr Q was aware of the modified suspension,  I accept that he did not realise  that the 
stickers meant  that the engine  and exhaust had been modified too.
Ref: DRN61908164So for all of the above reasons, I accept  that when Mr Q bought the car he did not know 
about the modifications to the engine,  exhaust, ECU, fuel pump,  fuel injectors, air filter, and 
intercooler.
The booster  gauge where one of the heater  vents  used to be did give me some pause for 
thought, as that modification is more obvious  than the others. It is strong evidence in 
Startlines favour. But on balance, I conclude that it is outweighed by the other independent 
evidence in Mr Qs favour:  the warranty, the advert, and the pre-delivery checklist.
Mr Q says he would not have bought the car if he had known about the modifications (other 
than the lowering of the car on its suspension). Since I accept  that he did ask the dealer if 
the car had any modifications, I infer that the answer was important to him. I accept that he 
would not have bought  the car if he had been  told the truth.
Given that the modifications invalidated his warranty and his insurance and would have 
prevented the car from passing its MOT,  I think it is fair and reasonable to allow  him to reject 
the car and to put him back in the position he would have been  in if the car had not been  
sold. So I will direct  Startline to arrange  for the car to be returned at no cost to Mr Q; to 
unwind the finance agreement and refund all of his payments,  with interest;  and to amend 
his credit file accordingly. He also incurred a fee of £170 to have the car transported when 
he moved house (I have  seen the invoice),  and I will order this to be refunded as well.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Startline Motor Finance Limited to:
Cancel and unwind the finance agreement,
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Qs credit file,
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr Q,
Refund to Mr Q the deposit and all payments he has made under the finance 
agreement since it began,
Pay Mr Q simple interest on the above  refunds  at eight per cent per year from the 
dates each of the refunded payments were made  to the date of settlement,
Pay Mr Q £170.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6190816