K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system he says were misrepresented  to him by the supplier.
Mr P is represented by a claims  management company (the CMC).
background
In or around August  2014, Mr P was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call S 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel  system  (the system) to be installed at his home.  
After being visited  by a representative  of S, Mr P decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2016 the CMC made  a claim on Mr Ps behalf  under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, S had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr P to enter  into the contract with S. The CMC said 
the following  misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,658 to 
mislead Mr P  this figure did not include  any interest  associated  with the loan, so the 
true cost was £14,988.60; 
Mr P was not told that there would be an annual  deficit of £687.31; 
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments  alone; 
the system would  not cost him a penny; and,
he would  make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr P and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations  made  
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section  75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC  provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  dated December 
 2013, copies  of marketing material used by S, a job advert for S, the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook, and some  of Mr Ps electricity  bills and FIT statements.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by S, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Mr P or that there were  any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
the contract S had provided  Mr P set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made  it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there  would  be a cost involved; 
the contract with S showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one was £809.52, 
and the credit agreement  made  it clear that the monthly repayments were £83.27, or 
£999.24 for the year, so its clear theres  a deficit; 
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract;
Ref: DRN63944562the system wouldnt increase Mr Ps electricity  consumption, and any increase in his 
electricity bills would be due to a change in lifestyle; and
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to S for introducing Mr P to it.
The FIT statements provided  by Mr P showed that the system was underperforming against 
the point of sale estimations. So, the CMC  arranged for a third party to inspect the system. 
The third party concluded the following:
DC side of the system tested and found  that 1 string of panels  has a fault (no 
voltage), as half of the system is not producing, this is the cause of the under-
performance. To rectify this issue scaffold needs to be erected, existing bird 
protection removed,  panels removed, restring  system, reinstall  panels,  install  new 
bird protection.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator  upheld the complaint. They  concluded 
that they didnt  think  the benefits of the panels were mis-represented but the report 
demonstrates that the system  is faulty.
Our investigator recommended that Shawbrook should do the following:
Either arrange and pay for the system  to be repaired or make  a reasonable cash  
settlement so that Mr P can arrange for the necessary repairs;  
Calculate and pay the difference  between Mr Ps actual generation and the 
estimation provided at the point of sale; 
Pay 8% simple interest on the above  amount to compensate  Mr P for the time hes 
been out of pocket.
Shawbrook did not respond to the investigators assessment so the case has been  passed 
to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
Ref: DRN63944563a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction.  This means  that Mr P could claim against Shawbrook,  
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by S in the same way they could 
have claimed against  S, the supplier. So, Ive taken  section  75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances  of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr P and 
S, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by S as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related  agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr Ps solar quote,  titled Your Personal Solar  
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support  S having made the 
alleged representations.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Mr Ps recollection of the sale.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ss sale processes. This detailed 
that Ss sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting  via email.  Based on our experience  of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied  that, on the balance of probabilities, S would have sent this 
document to Mr P and I have no reason to doubt  thats what  happened in this complaint. 
Ref: DRN63944564The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr P has alleged  that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by S and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page four of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr P could expect to receive  by way of 
FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows  the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income over 20 
years. My understanding  is that the system would only receive FIT payments  for 20 years  
and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr P could expect  to receive a 
total income in year one of £555.32 from his FIT.
The quote  goes  on to look at the electricity savings Mr P could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £253.56. Following this, in a table titled  Putting it all 
together, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £808.89. 
There is a page  titled system performance and returns with a series  of tables. Theres a 
section titled repayments.  This has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the length of the loan that Mr P 
entered into with Shawbrook.  This table sets out that there  are 180 monthly  payments of 
£83.27 due and compares  the overall expected grand  total from the system, averaged over a 
monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr P could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  he could expect to receive, by 
way of FIT income  and any additional  savings, would not be immediately  sufficient to cover 
his monthly loan repayments. Therefore,  Im not satisfied that he was told that his monthly 
loan repayments  would  be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Mr P has said that the cost of the system was documented  as £7,658.00. He has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest  associated  with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £14,988.60.
Ref: DRN63944565Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Mr P makes  it clear that the cost of the system  is 
£7,858.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which  sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £7,858.00 and goes  on to show that the total amount payable would be £14,988.60.
And as the quote provided  by S is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote  and the credit  
agreement, made it clear  that although the cost of the system  was £7,858.00, it would cost 
Mr P more  than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed  sum loan.
Ill now consider whether  S told Mr P that the system  would not cost him a penny,  and that 
he could expect to receive  a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £555.76.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr P was expected to have made a 
loss of £15.86 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £12.73 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until year six was repaid that the expected benefits would exceed his 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt  have been  until around year 11 
that he would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual  losses and the system would 
be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mr P was told that the system would not cost him a penny. I 
think the quote is clear  that there  would  be a difference between  his expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I dont think that Mr P was told hed receive  a tax-free income  of £555.76.  I do accept that Mr 
P was told that hed receive a year one benefit of £808.89 as this was the expected 
combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy bills. Having said 
that, taking into account  the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr P was led to 
believe that hed receive this sum in his hand. Im satisfied that the quote makes  it clear that 
hed have to make loan repayments and overall there would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr P was told by S that the system would pay for itself over the loan term. 
The estimated performance over 20 years page  of the quote  has a table  detailing  the 
performance over 20 years.
This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits  that Mr P could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under  his loan agreement. This table also sets out the 
panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that S made him aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
Ref: DRN63944566A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to S and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by S were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by S along  
with the findings of the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel  
hearing from December  2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about  S and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr P, or that it relates  to the time his panels  were sold. Whilst it does  
refer to the system  paying for itself and being  self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr Ps personalised quote. And, 
as I have explained above,  at the time Mr P entered into the contract with S Im satisfied that 
his system would have  been self-funding and pay for itself by year 14 from installation.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013,  some  time before Mr P 
entered into the contract with S. Shawbrook has also provided  information from Trading 
Standards, setting out that it had been working with S since  the findings to improve Ss sales  
process. This work  included Trading Standards helping S to enhance their business 
paperwork and documentation  to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation.  This has 
ultimately led to S receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary  of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC  findings  found concerns with Ss sales  practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed  above indicates that Ss sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mr P entering  into the contract  and I have  to take account  of the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  along  with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Fault with the system
Mr P provided his FIT statements and these show that his system generated 7,705.07 kWh 
between February 2015  and May 2019.  The system should have generated 15,456  kWh if it 
was performing in line with the estimates. This indicates that the system is underperforming.
The CMC arranged for a third party to inspect the system. The third party concluded that the 
underperformance of the system was due to a fault caused by half of the system not 
generating energy. They explained  that the system needs to be restrung and reinstalled, this 
had an estimated cost of £3,720.
Shawbrook has not provided any evidence to persuade me that this is an incorrect  
assessment of the system  or that the third partys  conclusions are wrong. 
And I think this report demonstrates  that the system  is faulty and has been  since it was 
installed. I think this constitutes a breach of contract. Shawbrook  has equal liability for a 
breach of this contract,  and therefore I think they are liable here. 
Ref: DRN63944567I agree  with the investigators recommendations and I think  that Shawbrook should make  the 
following offer to compensate Mr P:
Either arranges and pays for the system  to be repaired, or make a reasonable cash  
settlement so that Mr P can arrange for the necessary repairs;  
Calculate and pay the difference  between Mr Ps actual generation and the 
estimation provided at the point of sale; 
Pay 8% simple interest, per annum,  on the above amount to compensate Mr P for 
the time hes been out of pocket.  This interest  should be calculated  from the time of 
any relevant payment  made by Mr P up to the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited  should put 
things right in the manner  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2021.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6394456