K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that an appointed representative of Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited mis-sold them a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs W, acting  on L&Gs  advice, re-mortgaged from their existing lender. They paid 
an early repayment charge (ERC), converted the mortgage from interest only to part interest  
only and part repayment, consolidated their unsecured debt and borrowed an extra  £50,000.
Theyre now represented by a claims management  company.  The CMC says the advice was 
unsuitable, because  Mr and Mrs W didnt need to re-mortgage or consolidate debt. And it 
says the fees the broker charged  were  unfair.
Our investigator thought the advice  was broadly suitable. But while  he thought it was 
reasonable consolidate their credit cards, he didnt think Mr and Mrs W should have been 
advised to consolidate a personal loan. As L&G disagreed, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision to be made.  I took a different  view so I issued a provisional decision. I said:
I agree  that the mortgage advice was suitable.  Mr and Mrs W had decided to build an 
extension to their house. They needed  to borrow £50,000 to pay for it. The work was 
due to start in the next few months,  so they needed to access  the money quickly. So 
it was reasonable  to incur the ERC rather than wait until the end of the ERC period.
I think the whole of the debt consolidation was also suitable. Mr and Mrs W wanted to 
borrow a significant  amount  of extra money. And they also converted part of the 
mortgage to repayment terms to cover a shortfall  in their endowment. As a result  
their monthly payments would rise substantially  and unless all their debts, including  
the loan, were consolidated, their disposable  income would be reduced  to virtually 
zero. I think the consolidation  allowed  them to achieve their aims in an affordable 
way, and was therefore suitable.
I dont agree with the CMCs complaint about the broker fees. I think Mr and Mrs W 
were aware of what theyd  have  to pay, and received the service theyd paid for. 
Other brokers may charge  in a different way, or for different things. But theres no 
prescribed fee model and I dont think the fees, overall, were so excessive as to be 
unfair. However, I note L&G has offered to refund commission the broker  received for 
referring them to a solicitor, plus £100. I think thats  a fair offer.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision. But in the absence of further  evidence  or arguments, I havent  
changed my mind about what  I said.
Ref: DRN62729872my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Legal & General Partnership Services 
Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont require it to 
take any action  beyond that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020. 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6272987