K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with a fee charged by Mattioli  Woods PLC (MW)  for reviewing the benefits 
in his capped  drawdown pension.
background
Mr F has a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) with capped drawdown  which  means his 
pension is invested  in funds which are designed  to pay an income. On capped drawdown  
plans theres a maximum income  limit which is worked out using Government  Actuary  
Department (GAD) rates. Its a regulatory requirement for Mattioli Woods to review a 
customers pension benefits in capped drawdown every  three  years  based on the customers  
fund size and applicable GAD rates to make sure the plan stays  compliant.
Mr F says there was hardly any work  required to do the review and the fee charged was 
disproportionate and unfair. He also says he didnt know that he would need  to pay for a 
review when he wasnt taking an income  and that the fee schedule  was unclear. He wants 
the fee to be refunded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought MW was allowed to charge the fee.
Mr F disagreed and so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments from both parties  to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided not 
to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
MW is required to do a review every three years for customers up to the age of 75 and 
annually thereafter.  I understand  that Mr F thinks this wasnt needed on his plan as he isnt 
drawing an income at the moment. However,  MW says a review generally needs  to be done 
anyway to ensure  the maximum income is calculated in case Mr F decides  to draw an 
income in the next review period. I think this makes  sense. So I think they didnt do anything  
wrong when they conducted the review.
Mr F says the fee was too high. However, MW can set their fees and charges to a level they 
consider appropriate and there is no regulatory  limit on the fees they can charge. The fee for 
the benefit review  is set out in the fee schedule  that Mr F received and which  forms part of 
the terms and conditions that he agreed  to. The fee schedule  clearly sets out the different 
fees and charges of the SIPP. Under the heading  benefits/drawdown it shows the fee of 
£180 for Benefit reviews  (annual/triennial/age75 BCE). 
Mr F says no lay person  would understand what this means.  However, the schedule also 
includes examples  of what could be charged  in different scenarios and one of them shows 
example charges of an established SIPP with multiple assets taking Capped  Drawdown  and 
requiring a statutory triennial review, (3 yearly review) or statutory annual  review (per 
review). This example includes the review fee of £180+VAT. So looking at the information 
given to Mr F about the relevant fees I think this was clear.
I appreciate that Mr F feels  the fee is disproportionate for the work that was done  and that he 
generally feels its unfair. However, based  on what Ive seen I think MW didnt act unfairly 
Ref: DRN63793162when they conducted the review and are entitled to charge  the fee as set out in their fee 
schedule. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6379316