K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs G says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs G initially  told us that the PPI was added to her account without  her knowledge but has 
more recently said that the application gave the impression that she would have  a better  
chance of being successful with her application  if she took out the PPI. As these  statements 
are somewhat different, it may be that Mrs Gs recollections of the event have been affected 
over time  which is understandable as this sale did take place over 14 years ago. So in 
situations like this I need to consider what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Tesco has given me a copy of the postal application  form which  was completed by Mrs G at 
the time.  On this form there is a section about PPI. In this section  there are two boxes; one to 
tick to agree to taking  out the PPI and another to confirm  that the cover isnt required. I can 
see that the yes box has been ticked on Mrs Gs form. The form has been signed by her 
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. If Mrs G didnt want  to 
take out the PPI, she could have ticked the no box.
From looking  at the information on the application  I havent seen  anything  which  suggests  
that the cover was mandatory or that her application  would be impacted by whatever she 
entered in the PPI section  on the form. So on balance,  I think  Tesco made  it clear  that the 
policy was optional and that Mrs G agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it.
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Ref: DRN65260392Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Tesco didnt  tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what she has said about  not 
needing the policy as she had other means with which to make  her repayments. Mrs G has 
said she would have  received sick pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work. But this 
policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the card for up to 12 months  
which would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she would have 
received. Ive noted that Mrs G originally told us that she would only receive statutory sick 
pay and so I think this policy  could have been useful to her whilst she was on a reduced 
income. And the policy would have provided  cover for the same term if she was to lose her 
job. Mrs G has told us that she had some savings but this policy would have enabled her to 
protect those funds or use them to help cover other essential living expenses.  So this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6526039