K820x#14This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
From  the internal  records Barclays has given me, I think its likely Mr B applied for his 
credit card and PPI online. Barclays has given us example  screenshots  of the sorts of 
questions it says Mr B wouldve been asked in his online  application.  These show  
customers were  given  the option to tick yes or no to PPI. This is also in line with what we 
know of how similar policies were sold around the time Mr B bought his PPI. Barclays 
record of his application shows that Mr B selected  the PPI. 
I know Mr B feels strongly about this, and I have thought carefully  about everything  hes 
told us. But I think on the balance of probabilities the evidence  available  to me shows  
Barclays made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. Given how long ago it was sold, I can understand  why he might not 
remember this now. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it 
didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable.
Mr B says he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer. He also says he had 
some savings he couldve used  to make his repayments. But the PPI policy  wouldve 
paid out on top of any employee benefits he had and for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And having the policy 
meant he couldve used  his savings to cover  other  necessary expenses at what  couldve 
been a difficult  time.  So I think  he wouldve found the policy  useful if he found himself 
out of work. With this in mind, I dont  think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Ref: DRN68548932Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I 
wont award any further compensation in this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6854893