K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement  with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  ended.
background
In March 2015 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a 3 year personal  contract  
purchase agreement  with MBFS. The agreement ended in March 2018. Following inspection  
of the car, MBFS asked  Mr S to pay damage charges.
Mr S disputes the charges. He says the charges for repairs to the door are excessive 
because the dent is barely  noticeable.  He says the damage to the left hand panel is a scuff 
not a scratch and therefore fair wear and tear. He also says the car was serviced 
approximately 3 weeks before it was inspected  and no-one mentioned any damage.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the inspection didnt show  that the damage 
exceeded fair wear  and tear and that because of this Mr S shouldnt  have to pay the 
charges.
MBFS didnt agree. It said Mr S hadnt  disputed that damage was present but had instead 
complained that the charges were excessive. It said the photos showed an excessive dent 
which required a replacement panel.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr S must return  the car in good  
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA.  These guidelines are widely 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
MBFS says Mr S accepts there is damage and is simply challenging the cost.  I dont agree. 
Mr S accepts there is damage  but says (in the case of the dent) that it is small enough  to 
repair, rather than require  a replacement panel. Similarly, Mr S accepts that there are marks 
on the car but says these are scuffs not scratches.  I think this amounts to Mr S saying that 
the dent and the marks are within fair wear  and tear and Ive approached his complaint on 
that basis.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. In relation  to the dent on the door,  
Ive had regard  to the BVLRA guidelines which say that dents up to 10mm  in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface isnt broken. 
Looking at the photo of the dent,  it isnt possible to say how large the dent is because the 
inspector hasnt shown  any measuring tools in the image. Because I cant  be certain of the 
severity of the dent,  or that it exceeds  10mm in diameter, Im not satisfied that the dent 
exceeds fair wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN69059982In relation to the scratches, the BVLRA  guidelines say that scratches  and abrasions up to 
25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles  age and mileage and provided the primer or 
bare metal isnt showing.
Looking at the photos of the scratches,  I make the same point as above, which is that the 
inspector hasnt shown  any measuring tools in the image. So I cant be certain that the 
scratch is longer  than 25mm. Further, I cant see any primer or bare metal exposed. So on 
the available  evidence Im not satisfied that the scratches exceed fair wear and tear.
As Ive said,  its clear (and Mr S accepts)  that there is some damage  to the car. But on the 
evidence, Im not satisfied  that the damage  exceeds fair wear and tear. Because of this, I 
dont think its fair for MBFS  to charge Mr S for the damage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should cancel the charges.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6905998