K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc allowed him to enter into a credit 
agreement without him understanding what he was entering into. Mr F says Santander didnt 
carry out proper  checks before  he entered into a conditional sale agreement  to buy a car.
background
I issued a provision decision on 12 April 2019.  A copy is attached and forms part of this final 
decision so I dont  intend to repeat it in full here.  In summary, I said I was minded to uphold  
this complaint and provisionally concluded  that Santander should refund any repayments 
Mr F made towards  the agreement. I said interest  should be added  at 8% simple  a year from 
the date the payments were made until the date of settlement. I also recommended  
Santander pay Mr F £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
Santander didnt  respond to my provisional  decision,  but Mr F did and he accepted  it. Mr F 
added that he made  three monthly payments to Santander, but one of these was returned by 
Santander. Mr F said that he didnt make  any payment towards  the deposit. This doesnt 
change the compensation  I recommended in my provisional decision, which said Santander 
should refund all payments Mr F made towards  the agreement. If Santander has already 
returned one of the payments, then its not obliged to refund that months  repayment again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions  that would change  my view 
of the complaint, I would  confirm that my decision remains  as set out in the provisional 
decision.  
putting things right
I think Santander should refund any payments Mr F made towards the agreement.  Mr F has 
said that he didnt  make any payment towards  the deposit so there  is therefore  no need to 
refund any deposit  payment to him. 
I think Santander should refund any payments Mr F made towards the agreement because  it 
appears the car was not intended for Mr Fs use and Santanders not provided any evidence  
to show Mr F had any use of the car after entering  into the agreement.  I dont think 
Santander should have entered into the agreement for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision and it follows that Mr F should not have made  any payments towards 
the agreement. Interest  should be added at 8% simple  a year from the date the payments 
were made until the date of settlement.
I note there  is an outstanding balance Santander  says is owed as the car has since  been 
sold. I think Santander should write  off any further payments owed under the agreement.  
Santander should also remove any information about the agreement from Mr Fs credit file.
I also think Mr F has been caused  trouble and upset as a result of entering into an 
agreement which he couldnt  afford. Santander  began pursuing Mr F through  the courts, and 
Ref: DRN69254862hes had to spend time and effort trying to put things right. I think  £250 fairly recognises  the 
impact this has had on Mr F and Santander  should therefore pay him £250.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to do what  Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019. 
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69254863provisional decision  12 April 2019
complaint
Mr F complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc allowed him to enter into a credit agreement  
without him understanding what  he was entering into. Mr F says Santander didnt carry out proper 
checks before he entered into a conditional sale agreement to buy a car.
background
In March 2017, Mr F went to a garage with a relative. The relative  wanted to acquire a car financed 
through Santander and Mr F says he was asked  to be the guarantor. However, Mr F signed a 
conditional sale agreement  for a car, along with a direct  debit mandate.
Mr F says the paperwork was already completed for him before he arrived at the garage and he only 
had to provide  his driving licence. He also said he wasnt asked any questions about his income or 
expenditure. Mr Fs representatives say the garage was aware he cant  read or write, but the sale 
agreement wasnt read aloud to him. Mr F says he signed the paperwork without realising what he 
was agreeing  to and wasnt  given a copy  of any paperwork. Afterwards,  Mr F said he felt uneasy and 
rang the garage to try to cancel the agreement, which the garage said they would sort out. As Mr F 
didnt receive any paperwork  through the post,  he thought the problem  had been sorted out. 
Mr F later noticed  payments for the car debiting  his account in May 2017.  He queried these with 
Santander, and was told they were for the agreement outlined above. Mr F cancelled  the direct debit 
and didnt make any further payments towards the agreement. Santander wrote  to Mr F in August 
2017 as the agreement was in arrears  and later cancelled  the agreement in September 2017.  
Mr Fs representatives complained to Santander that it hadnt properly  assessed whether  the loan 
was affordable for Mr F. Previously,  he received a net pay of £1,150  a month from his employment. 
Mr F had recently retired at age 67, having been off work for the previous 12 months due to illness. 
He still has a mortgage with monthly repayments of £700, alongside other essential outgoings.  As 
such, Mr F has a monthly shortfall of £300 between his income and expenditure. The term of the 
agreement Mr F signed  up to was 48 months with monthly repayments of £378.10. 
Mr Fs representative has explained that he is extremely vulnerable, has a learning  disability, 
struggles to read and write  and has very limited understanding, which is apparent upon meeting  him. 
The representative says Mr F has mental health  issues, which cause physical symptoms. Mr Fs 
representative said the relative referred to above is no longer part of Mr Fs family since the deceit. 
Santander responded  to Mr Fs complaint,  saying he had been given the correct paperwork  and it 
carried out affordability  checks. The garage said everything  had been  explained to Mr F. Satisfied with 
the way the loan was sold, Santander said the amount  outstanding under the agreement needed to 
be paid. The car was repossessed and sold, leaving a substantial amount  owed on the agreement. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Fs representative referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators asked Santander for details of the affordability checks it says it carried out. 
Santander said it wasnt legally obliged to complete an income and expenditure  assessment before  
Mr F entered  into the agreement.  It checked Mr Fs identity and credit score.  
Our investigator recommended Mr Fs complaint be upheld as she didnt think  Santanders  
affordability checks were  adequate.  She didnt  think it was likely Mr Fs circumstances had changed 
considerably since he told Santander he had a monthly shortfall  in his income of £300. Given Mr Fs 
income at the time, it was unlikely he would have been able to afford the monthly repayments over the 
term of the agreement.  Our investigator didnt think Santander would  have entered  into the agreement  
if it had checked it was affordable for Mr F.
Ref: DRN69254864To put Mr F back in the position he would have been in had he not entered  into the agreement, she 
recommended Santander  write off the outstanding balance and refund all payments Mr F made  
towards the agreement, plus 8% simple interest. She recommended Santander remove any negative 
information in relation  to the agreement from Mr Fs credit file and pay him £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience  caused.
Santander disagreed, saying it carried out a reasonable assessment of Mr Fs creditworthiness.  It 
contacted a credit reference agency to check Mr Fs monthly mortgage payments were  being  
maintained and used its own internal credit  scoring metrics, which Mr F passed. Santander said Mr F 
also signed a notice saying  he could  afford the repayments despite the customer claiming they 
cannot read or write. 
Our investigator explained  that whilst it was possible  for Santander to have a rough idea of outgoings  
from its internal  credit  scoring,  there was no evidence  to show  Santander knew Mr Fs income. 
Without knowing Mr Fs income, Santander couldnt have known the agreement  was affordable. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I agree  with our investigators opinion, for broadly 
the same reasons.
In its response to our investigator, Santander identified  that regulations required  it to undertake a 
creditworthiness assessment and have  proper  regard to the outcome  of that assessment in respect of 
affordability risk. The creditworthiness assessment should be based on sufficient information  of which 
it is aware based on the information it knows at the time. I dont think Santander met its obligations  
here. Ill explain why.
The FCA handbook contains  the Consumer Credit sourcebook, which contains detailed rules that 
Santander must follow. In March 2017, CONC  5.2.1 set out Santanders obligation  to undertake an 
assessment of Mr Fs creditworthiness before making a regulated credit agreement. 
CONC 5.2.1(2)  set out that the creditworthiness assessment should consider the potential  for the 
commitments under the credit agreement to adversely  impact Mr Fs financial situation, taking into 
account the information Santander was aware of at the time of the agreement. It also had to consider 
Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. The assessment had to be based on 
sufficient information obtained from Mr F, where appropriate, and a credit reference agency, where 
necessary.
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness assessment should  be dependent upon and 
proportionate to the type, amount and cost of credit as well as Mr Fs financial  position, his credit 
history and financial  commitments and any knowledge or suspicion  of Mr Fs vulnerability. 
Santanders agreement required monthly repayments of around £378.10 a month for 48 months. I 
dont think this is an insignificant commitment Mr F was being asked to enter into. Whilst Santander 
thinks its checks were  reasonable, I disagree its checks were proportionate to the significant financial  
commitment Mr F was entering into. Considering the commitment being made by Mr F, I also dont 
think it was reasonable to rely solely on Mr F signing the affordability notice on the agreement to 
confirm the repayments were affordable  for him. 
I dont think Santander has given  any clear evidence  that it estimated Mr Fs income.  It doesnt appear 
any questions were asked about his income  and Santander  hasnt said the credit  reference agency 
supplied it with information about Mr Fs income. Theres also no evidence of an assessment of Mr Fs 
outgoings, so I dont think Santander obtained sufficient information from Mr F to assess  his ability to 
make the repayments under  the agreement. I can see that Santander checked Mr Fs mortgage 
repayments were being met, but I dont think this is enough to show  Santander took reasonable steps  
to assess  whether Mr F could make the repayments due under the agreement. In this case, I think it 
Ref: DRN69254865would have been appropriate to ask Mr F for details  of his income and expenditure  in order to assess 
Mr Fs creditworthiness and ability to make the repayments under  the agreement. 
Ive considered whether  I think  Santander  would have entered into the agreement with Mr F if it had 
reasonably assessed his income  and expenditure. Mr F has provided  evidence to Santanders  
representatives that indicate his monthly outgoings are greater than his income.  Theres nothing  to 
suggest Mr Fs circumstances have changed since the agreement commenced. If Santander hadnt 
relied solely  on Mr Fs credit  score in assessing the loans  affordability, it would have realised  the 
agreement wasnt affordable for Mr F. And as Santander has been unable to provide evidence of an 
adequate assessment of his income and expenditure at the time the agreement was sold to Mr F, I 
dont think theyve  done  enough to show the agreement was affordable for him.
Since assessing Mr Fs income, Santander  has said repayments towards  the agreement  arent 
affordable for Mr F. On the basis  that its likely Mr Fs circumstances were the same when the 
agreement was sold,  I dont  think Santander would  have entered  into this agreement with Mr F.
putting things  right
I think  Santander  should  refund any payments Mr F made towards the agreement. Its not clear  
whether Mr F made any contribution towards the deposit for the car, but if he did, his deposit should 
also be returned to him. Mr F may submit any evidence he has about payments hes made in 
response to this provisional decision. 
I think  Santander  should  refund any payments Mr F made towards the agreement because it appears 
the car was not intended  for Mr Fs use and Santanders not provided  any evidence to show Mr F had 
any use of the car after entering into the agreement.  I dont  think Santander should  have entered  into 
the agreement for the reasons explained above, and it follows that Mr F should not have made  any 
payments towards the agreement, including  the deposit. Interest should be added  at 8% simple a 
year from the date the payments were  made until the date of settlement.
I note there is an outstanding balance Santander says is owed as the car has since been sold.  I think  
Santander should write off any further payments owed under the agreement. Santander should  also 
remove any information about  the agreement from Mr Fs credit  file.
I also think  Mr F has been caused trouble and upset as a result of entering into an agreement which 
he couldnt afford. Santander began pursuing  Mr F through the courts, and hes had to spend time 
and effort trying  to put things right. I think  £250 fairly recognises the impact this has had on Mr F.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this complaint and require Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc to put things  right by doing what Ive set out above.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6925486