K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the events which occurred in early  2018 relating to the 
encashment of their investments and the information provided to them by GMIFC Limited (the 
business).
background 
In July 2017 Mr and Mrs C were advised to invest £350,000 in Aviva ISAs  and Unit Trusts. 
At the time theyd sold their house and were renting a property. In total they paid around  
£7,000 for the advice. 
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs C explained  that they were in the process  of purchasing  a new 
house and would shortly need  to encash  their investments. 
Mrs C sought advice  on what they needed  to do, and says she was told the process would  
take around two weeks. But she was advised  against encashing immediately because the 
investment was doing well and she didnt  need  money straight away.  
At the time,  the investments were  worth around £361.864 and Mr and Mrs C say that they 
were informed that they would receive  the January value. They acted  on the advisers  advice 
and took no action.
In due course Mr and Mrs C were unable to access their Aviva account from 15 January until 
29 January 2018,  due to upgrades being carried out by Aviva. Mrs C contacted  the adviser 
and was informed  that the value of their investments was £358,523.69. 
By early February 2018, the value of the investments had dropped to under £351,000 and 
Mrs C spoke to the business  to enquire  whether she would receive  the value shown on the 
online portal on the previous evening or the current value shown on the portal. 
Mrs C was notified the difference was £2,500  and if the request  to encash was made  
before noon she and Mr C would receive the value from the previous evening,  which  was 
£353,570. So, following  Mrs Cs instructions to encash, it was confirmed  that same  
afternoon  that her instructions were being  processed. 
On 9 February 2018, Mrs C was told it was that it was Avivas policy to encash an 
investment as its value  at the close of business  the day after instructions were  received, in 
order to combat insider dealing. Mrs C was provided with the option of rescinding the sales  
but declined to do so.
The business has acknowledged that it delayed passing Mr and Mrs Cs instructions on to 
Aviva by one day, and offered to pay them what they wouldve got but for but for the delay. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
The adviser couldnt have predicted  how the markets would perform  and didnt 
specifically foresee a downturn in the future. 
The instructions  could only proceed  on the instructions from Mr and Mrs C. But Mrs C 
didnt wish to encash the investments  she didnt  have an exchange  date. 
Ref: DRN60194612The adviser had told Mr and Mrs C to let him know when they wanted to encash  as 
he would  be on leave.   
Because the business doesnt  record all its calls she was unable  to say what  was 
and wasnt said during these conversations. 
From  the information provided by the business   including  a call recording  she was 
satisfied that Mrs C had been  provided  with information that was inconsistent  with 
Aviva. 
Instructions were given on 9 February 2019. If the instructions had been passed on 
time its likely Aviva  would have passed  these on around 3pm that day as it has set 
times at 10 am, 11 am, 1 pm, 3 pm and 4 pm when it passes on instructions  
instead it was done the next day at 1 pm. 
The instructions  werent then passed  on to the fund manager until a month later.  
Aviva has dealt  with that with Mr and Mrs C and theyve accepted what I said.  
The business offered to pay the difference between the price on 7 February 2018 
and the amount Mrs C stated was received. Its very difficult  to know  what  the exact 
loss wouldve been as this was dependant on the prices and timing of the trades. 
That said the business offer to pay £476  compensation  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators conclusions. Theyve asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision. In short, Mrs C says:
Theyve paid for advice which the adviser  has failed to give about the encashment.
They were unable  to track the value of their investments for two weeks due to a 
system update.
The adviser was under  a pro-active duty to advise which he failed to discharge.  
The advisers negligent failure to advise contributed to a severe loss to the 
value of their savings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs C say I cant say that the 
business proposed  redress for failing to action Mr and Mrs Cs instructions is unreasonable. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Cs strength  of feeling  about this matter. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  
Ref: DRN60194613I dont think the advisers initial sentiments are unreasonable.  It seems  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
need the funds immediately  they didnt have  a date to exchange contracts  and the 
markets at the time were doing  well. So, the information wasnt  incorrect. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that the adviser couldnt have necessarily foreseen  a downturn 
so soon after. Whilst there wasnt a guarantee of future performance  there  wasnt anything 
tangible to suggest the markets were likely to dip. 
If Mr and Mrs C wanted  their funds, and had asked  for it, thats what  the adviser wouldve 
provided. There was nothing stopping them from requesting their money but they didnt  ask 
for it. Instead  they wanted the adviser to suggest  what they should do and thats what he did. 
I dont think doing  so was wrong or in breach  of any duty he might have had towards Mr and 
Mrs C.  I think the advice  was given in good  faith.  
Im mindful the instructions from Aviva  werent  sent to the fund manager for another month 
but thats not what Im considering in this complaint, in any case  its nothing  to do with the 
business. 
In this instance the business is responsible, as it accepts, for not passing on the instructions 
to encash the investments the same day as they were given by Mrs C. Theres no valid 
reason why it didnt  do so. But I think  the business offer to pay the difference between what 
Mr and Mrs C were likely to get, and what they got, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im mindful the calculations are dependent on a number of variables  but Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  its calculation is incorrect.   
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded the business needs  to do anything  else.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr and 
Mrs C what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think GMIFC Limiteds offer is 
fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6019461