K821x#15complaint
Mr E and Mrs B complain  that DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company Limited  acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  by not accepting  Mr Es employment claim under a legal 
expenses insurance  policy. They want the claim accepted with the limit for costs reset as if 
no costs had been paid for by DAS, an apology and compensation.
background
Mr E and Mrs B had legal  expenses insurance with DAS which  provided up to £50,000 of 
cover for employment disputes with a reasonable prospect of success. Mr E had an 
employment claim that he wanted to bring,  but he said that DAS refused to accept the claim 
in 2016 as it was advised the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success.  DAS said 
that it did accept  the claim and provided Mr E with a panel solicitor in 2016.  Mr E told DAS 
that he didnt want that firm to continue to act on his behalf after a month  or so and wanted 
to instruct his own choice  of solicitors. DAS agreed to this.
Mr E said that a barrister  provided an opinion that some of Mr Es employment claims had a 
reasonable prospect of success but DAS didnt reinstate cover. He said this caused him to 
struggle to deal with the claim himself and pay privately for legal representation, and affected 
his mental health.  Mr E said that DAS knew about  the severity  of Mr Es health issues as it 
had been given expert medical reports on the subject, but he was still left to struggle.  He 
also said that he had lost out though not being legally represented at the employment 
tribunal.
DAS said that what  happened was that in 2016 Mr Es chosen solicitors  failed  to keep it 
updated promptly about the claim, the extra  claims  to be brought and the settlement offered 
(rejected without the approval of DAS, despite  the terms  and conditions  of the policy). DAS 
said that it had to chase the solicitors for information, and was told that the barrister didnt 
think any of the claims would be successful and Mr E wanted much  more compensation than 
was achievable.  DAS said it was then told Mr E was unhappy about the solicitors as his 
instructions werent  being followed.  DAS agreed to pay for a second  opinion in 2017.  DAS 
said Mr E dismissed the solicitors and it agreed to fund the second opinion  only until 
reasonable prospects of success were confirmed.  
DAS said that it didnt receive the second opinion until 2018, when Mr E asked for another 
opinion to be paid for by DAS. It refused as it hadnt been told that the existing claims had a 
reasonable prospect of success. Mr E sent DAS in October 2018 a barristers opinion  for 
which a trade union had paid, which said that his employment claims had reasonable 
prospect of success,  though the barrister said Mr Es case  depended on how the tribunal 
viewed the evidence.
DAS accepted that it didnt respond until 2019.  It noted that the second  opinion had said that 
some of the claims had a reasonable  prospect of success, and said that it was reinstating  
the cover  and fully reviewing the file. DAS said that it had acted fairly and reasonably  by 
paying for a second opinion when it didnt have  to do so given the first advice. It offered £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused, though this included issues  dealt with under 
a separate complaint being dealt with by this service.  Mr E felt that the poor service hed 
received from DAS had been overlooked, as had his disability, and more compensation was 
deserved.
Ref: DRN63922662DAS reiterated  that it wasnt responsible for the actions of the qualified  lawyers involved. It 
noted that it had been  told more than once some  of the claims had no reasonable prospect 
of success but it had paid for a second opinion as a gesture  of goodwill. DAS said that it had 
paid a significant sum in legal costs on Mr Es behalf already and it wasnt  fair or reasonable 
to reset  the costs limit.
But DAS paid the legal costs incurred  by Mr E for his employment  claims to date as of 
January 2019  (£3150), and paid increased  compensation  of £1,000 (including the other  
complaint dealt with by this service). Mr E accepted this, but still challenged the amounts 
paid to his previous solicitors. DAS refused to reset the costs  limit.
The employment claim was not progressed by DAS. Mr E complained  about  this. DAS 
upheld the complaint and accepted that its service since  January 2019  hadnt been good 
enough. It said that thered been  a breakdown  in communication and DAS shouldve  tried to 
agree terms  of business with Mr Es choice of solicitor. DAS agreed to pay for all reasonable 
legal costs from 17 January 2019 onwards and offered to pay £300 compensation. DAS said 
that as of mid June 2019, it understood that Mr E was again unrepresented and offered to 
appoint a panel solicitor, but Mr E had refused to this offer and said he didnt want  further 
contact with DAS for the time being. DAS said if Mr E changed  his mind, he should let it 
know.
Mr E complained to this service. The investigators  view was that Mr Es complaint should  be 
upheld. She said DAS had handled  the administration of the claim well in 2016  and 2017, 
and it was relevant  that it was an insurer. It was fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on 
the legal  advice received  unless it was obviously wrong. The investigator pointed  out that 
DAS didnt withdraw funding when it couldve when  Mr E failed to attend  an appointment with 
a barrister, his solicitors failed to properly update it or send Counsels opinion  when 
received, when Mr E dismissed his solicitors  without consulting  DAS, or when its view about 
an offer wasnt sought. She noted that DAS even paid for a second opinion  when it wasnt 
required to do so. 
The investigator said that while Mr E wanted  the costs limit restarted  to ignore the costs paid 
by DAS to date, she didnt think this would  be fair or reasonable. She said that DAS wasnt 
responsible for the legal service provided and it would suffer  a significant financial loss if it 
just reset  the limit. The investigator  thought  that DAS had acted fairly until June 2018  and 
provided service in excess of that offered by the policy, and noted that it didnt receive the 
second opinion  until June 2018,  when Mr E apologised for not keeping it updated.
But after June 2018, the investigator said that DAS hadnt given good service.  While she 
accepted that until DAS received the opinion it was fair and reasonable not to pay for it, the 
investigator noted that DAS didnt pay the invoice promptly afterwards. This meant that the 
barrister wasnt  willing  to work further  while unpaid, but the investigator said that DAS hadnt 
been asked to fund further work  and hadnt  agreed  to do so, so it wasnt  responsible  for any 
delays caused  by this failure.  And she said that the reinstatement  of the employment claims, 
refund of legal costs  paid by Mr E and compensation fairly and reasonably  put matters right 
for the events up to February 2019.
Ref: DRN63922663The investigator said from February 2019  onwards, DAS failed to fairly and reasonably 
handle the employment claims and progress  matters.  She said that while backdating the 
cover to 17 January  2019 was fair and reasonable, she didnt think  £300 compensation was 
sufficient to address  the trouble and upset caused to Mr E. The investigator thought that 
Mr E, a vulnerable consumer, had been left to deal with the employment claims on his own 
for about six months,  and the fair and reasonable compensation was £750.
Mr E disagreed. Mr E said that he didnt cash the cheque  for £300 hed been sent and felt 
that the investigator had overlooked his point that there should be a costs limit of £50,000  
per employment claim, not one limit for all the claims. He also said that the impact  on his 
health in dealing with claims himself had been ignored and was relevant to the 
compensation recommended. 
The investigator explained that the costs limit wasnt  offered for each employment claim 
under the terms  and conditions of the policy  they were all under the one £50,000 limit and 
the claims were all being heard together as they arose from the same employment 
relationship. She pointed  out that Mr E had had legal assistance and DAS had paid for it, 
and part of the reason he had been  left alone at times  was due to his failure to update  DAS.  
The investigator said if Mr E wanted  to raise new complaints, such  as whether a panel firm 
was subject to a conflict of interest,  he could do so but the issue wouldnt be resolved as part 
of this complaint.  She didnt change her view. DAS accepted the investigators view but 
explained that it wouldnt be able to pay the legal costs from 17 January 2019  onwards until 
the claim had ended and the costs assessed.
Mr E was adamant  that he should have £50,000 of legal cover for each  of his five claims. He 
also said that he should receive  more  compensation due to his disability and the fact that 
DAS knew the employment claims had a reasonable prospect of success  when it received 
the opinion in 2018. DAS reiterated that all the claims stemmed  from the one employment 
contract and so said there was only one costs limit due under the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  that Mr E has another  
complaint about  another legal claim he wanted  to bring under the policy, but thats  being  
considered separately  so I wont deal with it here. Also, when I refer to DAS, Im also 
referring to its agents. And while I appreciate that the parties  might  want me to go into the 
details, I cant as this decision has to be suitable for publication. I have though  read 
everything the parties have sent to this service and understand their positions.
The costs  limit
While Mr E has issued  five employment tribunal claims, they all arise  from the same  set of 
underlying facts and the same contract  of employment. The claims are all being  heard 
together by the tribunal.  The terms and conditions of the policy  say that the most that DAS 
will pay for one event  is £50,000. The word event within the insurance context doesnt 
mean something that happens on one day at a particular time; it means the first thing that 
happened that led to the claim  arising.  All of Mr Es claims arise from his employment  
contract and the alleged  unlawful actions  of his former employer and colleagues. 
Ref: DRN63922664The policy says that We will cover  the costs  and expenses  a dispute relating to your 
contract of employment or future employment  for your or their work  as an employee. While 
Mr E has a number of claims and complaints, all relate to one contract of employment. Im 
satisfied that DAS is acting fairly and reasonably in saying that all five claims fall under  one 
costs limit of £50,000.
Reasonable prospects of success
Insurers are able to rely on the legal advice and opinions  provided by suitably qualified  
lawyers, provided that the advice or opinion is not obviously  wholly incorrect when viewed 
from the perspective of a layman. Disputes over whether all the facts were set out within an 
opinion isnt enough for a layman to reach  a conclusion that the opinion  is obviously 
incorrect in my view.
DAS was given  an opinion from a suitably qualified barrister which  was detailed  and 
reasoned and set out why that barrister thought Mr Es claims didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success.  But DAS didnt rely on the standard position of insurers and require 
Mr E to pay for a new more favourable opinion; it considered the points made to it about  the 
complexity of the case and Mr Es health  and agreed to pay for a second opinion. That was 
fair and reasonable.
And the evidence available  to me shows that DAS didnt get the second opinion  until 2018. 
Until it was in possession  of an opinion that said some of the claims had reasonable 
prospects of success,  it was fair and reasonable for DAS to decline  to pay for more legal 
work to be carried out.
But having  once received  the opinion, DAS didnt  promptly  reinstate the cover or pay the 
barrister involved. DAS accepts this and Mr E accepted its proposal to put matters right by 
paying for the legal  costs Mr E had incurred, agreeing to reinstate the cover and paying 
£1000 compensation. This was a fair and reasonably resolution to deal with DAS failure up 
to February 2019  in my view.
General customer service
Having looked  at all the evidence, theres  no doubt  that up to June 2018 DAS treated Mr E 
fairly and reasonably. It had several  reasons that wouldve allowed it to end the cover 
regardless of any assessment of reasonable prospects  of success  Mr E and his solicitors 
didnt update it properly, didnt consult  it when offers were made and rejected, and Mr E 
failed to attend appointments or consult DAS before dismissing solicitors from his case. But 
DAS identified that Mr E was vulnerable  and was disabled, and took this into account.  It 
didnt withdraw cover  despite having  grounds  to do so. This was fair and reasonable.
Where DAS went wrong was after it received the barristers opinion in 2018 (see above). I 
agree that it has put this failure right, but DAS continued to act unfairly and unreasonably by 
failing to actually  progress the employment claims after dealing with Mr Es complaint from 
February 2019 onwards. I say February as its reasonable for DAS to need  a few weeks to 
start the process of dealing with the employment claim. The offer to backdate the legal cover 
from 17 January 2019 does deal with the practical  issue caused by this failure, but it doesnt  
address Mr Es trouble and upset.  I agree  that legal costs are subject to assessment under  
the standard court costs assessment rules and its fair and reasonable for DAS to require an 
assessment to be carried out.
Ref: DRN63922665Mr E is clearly  unwell  and I entirely  accept that from January up to June 2019 he felt 
distressed, anxious  and upset due to DAS  failures.  But Mr E hasnt presented  any 
supportive objective medical evidence that his health has been worsened solely due to DAS 
failures, as opposed  to any other  reason. I am conscious that litigation itself is very stressful,  
whether or not a person is legally represented, and Mr Es health has allegedly been 
affected seriously by the actions of his former  employer and colleagues  (I say allegedly  not 
because I doubt  Mr E, but because I understand a court  and tribunal will be asked to 
determine this point and it would be inappropriate for me to deal with such  a point as a 
result).
And money  never truly compensates for trouble and upset. It cant  change  what  has 
happened. Mr E has, with support, been dealing  with the claims at times alone, even before 
January 2019  (and this was because  he hadnt updated DAS). I think £750  fairly and 
reasonably reflects  the trouble and upset caused to Mr E by DAS failings alone between  
January and June  2019, as opposed  to the trouble and upset caused by the litigation itself or 
the former  employer.
Im not persuaded that Mr Es employment  claims have been adversely  affected by DAS  
failures. The final hearing isnt until September 2020  and the tribunal has yet to make a 
decision. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  DAS Legal Expenses Insurance  Company 
Limited should pay Mr E £750 compensation (minus £300 if the cheque has been cashed 
and in full if the cheque  has not been  cashed  and is too old to now be cashed) and ensure 
Mr Es legal costs between 17 January and 28 June 2019 in relation to the employment 
claims are covered by the policy (subject  to the standard  rules  regarding the assessment of 
costs). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask 
Mr E and Mrs B to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6392266