K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about the recovery of their car when they called for roadside 
assistance which is a benefit available under Mrs Gs bank  account.  
The underwriter of the roadside assistance policy is U K Insurance  Limited (UKI). Any 
reference to UKI in my decision includes its agents.
background
In January 2019 Mr G called for assistance  as their car was locked in park  mode.  Mr and 
Mrs G complained that the recovery agents  took seven hours to recover their car. Theyre  
unhappy with the way their car was handled by the agents. Mr and Mrs G wanted  UKI to 
compensate them for potential long term damage done to their car and for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
UKI agreed  that the way the recovery was completed was clearly  incorrect   it shouldnt 
have taken the length of time it did. However,  two garages had advised that the repairs  
carried out to their car after recovery was caused by the initial  fault that caused the 
breakdown  and not related to the way their car was recovered. UKI said that if Mr and Mrs 
G had any further  information  such as a report from a repairer  to show  that the recovery  
agent caused additional damage, it would  consider  this. 
For the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the recovery, UKI paid Mr and Mrs G £200  
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt think this was enough to cover the potential  long term damage and 
costs they may have  to pay in future. So they asked us to look at their complaint.  
Our investigator explained that we can only consider what  happened  rather than what 
might happen in the future. Based on the information provided, she thought UKI had done 
enough to put things  right.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They remain concerned  that the way in which their car was 
handled by the recovery agents  has caused  damage  to the gearbox which may cost them 
thousands in the future.  They dont  feel the compensation  of £200 is enough to reflect this  
or the potential danger they were  put in while  the recovery took place. 
So Mr and Mrs G would  like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs G have clarified  that they dont think the repairs carried  out to their car after 
recovery were  caused  by the recovery  agents. They agree that those repairs  were for the 
issue which led to seeking assistance.  Their concerns are that their car has damage - which 
isnt yet evident - because  of the way the recovery was handled. 
Ref: DRN68554782When things go wrong,  we look at what a business did to put things right.  We can only 
consider what actually happened  and we look at the evidence both parties have provided 
to support their view.
UKI said that if Mr and Mrs G can provide a report from a repairer to show additional 
damage to their car, it will consider this. I appreciate that Mr G says this may only be evident 
in future   or by removing the gearbox for a diagnostic check. But I think  UKIs approach  
here was reasonable. It spoke to both the dealership garage and specialist garage that 
assessed Mr and Mrs Gs car. But UKI hasnt  received any evidence to show that their car 
has suffered additional damage  caused by the recovery.  
Its clear that the recovery took far longer  than it should have  and UKI accepts that the way 
in which  the recovery  was handled  was unacceptable and was a distressing experience  for 
Mr and Mrs G and their family. However, I think the compensation its paid of £200 is fair and 
reasonable based on the circumstances in this case.
I realise Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything  into 
account, I think UKI has dealt with their complaint in a fair and reasonable way. So Im not 
asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6855478