K820x#14complaint
Mrs W was sold a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2001.  TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC). Mrs W took all sections of the policy.
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her the TMPP. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs W says that she didnt  know  shed  taken out the TMPP policy with her mortgage. She 
says that she thought  she had taken out home  insurance. But I think BoS made it clear that 
Mrs W didnt have to take out the TMPP and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  BoS has provided  a copy of some  of the paperwork completed  at the time 
Mrs W applied  for her mortgage. I can see from this, that as well as selecting  buildings  and 
contents cover, she has signed to take out the TMPP  policy. The policy  is presented as 
optional  and is in a separate section to the other insurances Mrs W requested. 
BoS recommended the TMPP to Mrs W so it had to check that the policy was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
However, I can see that the Life and Critical illness parts of the TMPP were sold as level 
term policies (LTA). This means that the amount of cover wouldnt decrease in line with the 
balance on the mortgage. I think that a decreasing term policy (DTA)  wouldve been  more 
appropriate as Mrs W wouldnt have been  paying for cover she didnt need. 
But BoS has confirmed  that the comparative  DTA policy available at the time was more 
expensive than the LTA she was sold. So I dont  think  Mrs W has lost out here.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs W about the TMPP wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the TMPP would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the TMPP was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
Ref: DRN64412782MPPI part of the policy. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand that BoS has 
already done this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6441278