K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls main point of complaint is about the value of his pension  fund that he took out in 1987 
with Phoenix Life Limited.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 29 July 2019.  In my provisional decision, I explained it was my 
view that the crux of Mr Ls complaint, the value being lower than he thought it should  be, was due 
to the charging  structure of his policy and the fact that he stopped  contributing to it early. Rather 
than anything Phoenix had done  anything wrong. 
I also explained that I didnt think Phoenix  were wrong to have previously quoted  a penalty 
on transfer, nor was there anything unfair  in its methodology for calculating  the penalty.
I concluded that Phoenix hadnt made an error  and that I wasnt  recommending that it 
needed to make any award.
I then invited both parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Phoenix had no further  
points to raise. Mr L registered his dissatisfaction and said that the truth had been 
compromised to suit our interests.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L was unhappy with my provisional decision and thinks  that the truth has been  
manipulated. However, Mr L didnt give an example, and wasnt  specific  in explaining his 
dissatisfaction. So I cant address this point in any detail.
So with no new merits based arguments  being made,  there is little more to say other  than my 
decision remains as detailed in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65339692my provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ls main point of complaint is about the value of his pension fund that he took out in 1987 with 
Phoenix Life Limited.
background
Mr L took out a pension plan with Phoenix Life Limited in 1987. Phoenix say that Mr L only kept up 
contributions for 33 months.  And that 24 months of these contributions were  invested as capital  units 
which attract higher charges.
In 2007 Mr L wrote to Phoenix raising a number  of issues and questions  about  his pension  plan and 
its value.  Phoenix didnt  treat this as a complaint but it did respond.
In October 2017 Mr L received a quotation and he decided to take his benefits from the plan as a 
lump sum. When this was paid in November  2017 the value had decreased from what was quoted.  Mr 
L was unhappy with this and raised  a complaint  with Phoenix  about this drop but also that the overall 
value of his fund was undervalued.
Phoenix responded and as Mr L remained  unhappy  the complaint  was referred  to our service. Our 
investigator looked at the complaint and explained to Mr L that in her view the key issue underlying 
the complaint was the growth/value of the fund since 1987 and that is what she would focus on.
Our investigator didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong. She said the majority of units 
purchased were capital units with higher  charges and this explained why Mr Ls plan had a lower 
value than he expected.
Mr L then raised  a number of points that hadnt previously been raised  with Phoenix.  Phoenix 
responded to these points and theyve been added to this complaint. Mr L then made  his final 
comments and the case has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr L has raised a number  of points throughout our investigation of his complaint. And I can see that 
he has put a lot of time and research into putting forward his case. Phoenix has responded to the 
additional points raised and Mr L has had the opportunity to make additional comments following their 
response. 
We are an informal dispute resolution service and ultimately our role is to put things right when we 
think a business has done something wrong or caused a customer  a financial loss. Whilst we try 
where possible to provide explanations and extra information  to aid understanding, we are not 
required to comment and answer every point raised. Part of our role is to decide what we think is 
relevant to the core issue  of the complaint. So whilst Ive read everything that Mr L has said, I dont 
think it is necessary  or practical to comment  on every point. 
Instead Ive focused on the underlying cause of complaint,  the value  of Mr Ls pension fund and 
whether Phoenix  has done anything  wrong that may have caused Mr L a financial loss. Ill also 
address the last points that Mr L made following Phoenixs response as these havent yet been 
addressed by us.
Ref: DRN65339693Its those  points that Ill start with. Mr L has raised  concerns with Phoenixs  response in 2007 saying 
the fact they didnt treat the concerns he raised with them as a complaint. Whilst I understand  Mr Ls 
point and perhaps  Phoenix shouldve dealt with Mr Ls letter as a formal  complaint, it appears that Mr 
L was at the time happy with Phoenixs  response and didnt respond  further. Had he been unhappy,  
Mr L did have the option to respond again to Phoenix and I wouldve expected them to treat Mr Ls 
correspondence more  formally. As this hasnt  had any effect on Mr Ls ability to bring a complaint now 
and complaint handling isnt a regulated activity under our jurisdiction, I dont intend to discuss this 
further.
The second  point Mr L has raised  is about the fund that he was invested in. It seems that mistakenly 
Mr L believed that hed invested  in a FTSE 100 tracker fund but Phoenix has explained that this is not 
the case. Rather the fund, The Equity Pension Fund invests in shares  of companies on the stock 
exchange. Mr L says that Phoenix hasnt provided  a breakdown  of what companies  were invested in 
and when and this lack of basic transparency raises questions. 
However, I cant see that Mr L has specifically  asked  Phoenix for a breakdown  of the funds 
investments, its only recently hes become aware  that it doesnt track  the FTSE 100. Phoenix will 
have a fund factsheet that it can provide Mr L with if he asks for one. Potentially they might not be 
able to give a historical breakdown but Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that Phoenix isnt meeting  its 
regulatory requirements. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that there is anything  wrong with the 
management of this fund. So I dont think that Phoenix has done anything  wrong  here.
Mr L has also questioned Phoenixs methodology for calculating its transfer valuation.  It had 
previously told him he would  be penalised by 52% if he was to transfer early.  Mr L says the 
methodology used doesnt make sense. And that Phoenix has used an annuity rate to do this 
calculation which has no relevance. Hes also said as Phoenix  would be transferring away any 
liability, where  is the justification for applying  a penalty  at all?
Historical context is important here, when  this policy was originally drawn  up the ability  to transfer 
wasnt available as this wasnt common in the pension marketplace at the time.  Policies  were 
designed to be long-term investments, so businesses expected  to be receiving  premiums over a long 
period of time and to gain from the associated benefits that come with that. 
Looking at what Phoenix has done, I think  Mr L has mis-understood  how the transfer penalty is 
calculated; its methodology for calculating  the transfer value appears to be inline with other providers 
of similar  policies.  I cant  see that annuity rates  come into it.
Losing a customer early, through transfer or early retirement is a disadvantage to a pension provider. 
So this is why they charge  customers  for taking out their money early. Various methods are used to 
do this but the common approach is that its a sliding scale. The closer a customer gets to their 
retirement age, the smaller the penalty becomes.  This is to compensate for the loss of years  of 
holding the funds that the provider  had originally expected. When Mr Ls transfer value was calculated  
he was approximately 18 years away from retirement, hence why the penalty was so large. Phoenixs 
policy document actually shows how many units are penalised on early  retirement  (now  also used for 
early transfer as well). And the penalty  Phoenix said would apply,  looks to be broadly in line with this. 
So I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong  here, nor unusual,  its methodology is similar to that 
used by other pension providers  in the market.
Mr L has also asked Phoenix to provide details of the bank  account used to collect his premiums  and 
says Phoenix hasnt done  this. Phoenix says its looking into it to see if it can provide  this information 
to Mr L. 
In any event, the premiums  were paid in the late 80s and early 90s and businesses arent  required to 
keep information indefinitely and I wouldnt expect it or the banks involved necessarily to have records 
of this information.  In any event Phoenix has provided information of the amounts  paid and Ive no 
reason to believe  that this information is incorrect. Mr L began paying  premiums  in 1987 and these  
continued until May 1992.  On two occasions he increased the premium amount. Mr L has said there 
Ref: DRN65339694are discrepancies in when  the payments  were made  but there doesnt appear to be anything  
unusual. Mr L could contact his bank to find out what he paid but retrieving this information might  not 
be possible.
Mr L has asked why Phoenix directed him to a financial adviser.  And questioned why they cannot  
explain their product satisfactorily to a customer, so that an adviser isnt required.
Pension providers are required to point out to their customers that they should  seek  financial advice. 
Acting as a provider, a business can give information but they cannot  give advice. However,  financial 
advisers should be able to give expert advice of the different pension products available. This is often 
necessary because pensions are complex  products  and can be difficult to understand even to those 
who are familiar with the industry. I know that Mr L thinks  that Phoenix hasnt  been forthcoming with 
information but I think  that Phoenix has tried to give Mr L all the information  he requires  to answer his 
queries. But still mis-understandings have occurred which is in part due to the complex nature of 
pensions and the terminology involved. Ultimately I dont think there is much more that Phoenix can 
reasonably be expected to do in relation  to Mr Ls understanding of his pension.
The crux of Mr Ls complaint  is that he is unhappy with the value  of his pension. And believes for all 
the time its been invested and with the performance of the FTSE in this time,  it should  be much 
higher.
But as Phoenix and our investigator have explained,  the product  he purchased was designed as a 
long term investment vehicle. And commonly  the charges of plans setup  in the late 1980s reflect this. 
When Mr L took out his plan in 1987 it was expected  that he would  pay premiums until his normal 
retirement date in 2017. Mr L stopped paying premiums in 1992.  But this doesnt mean the charges 
applicable to the plan stopped then. 
Once the premiums stopped, with no money coming  in, the cumulative effect of the charges will have 
eroded a lot of the growth that he wouldve received had he continued to pay his premiums. Often in 
this situation where payments are stopped so early  in the life cycle of the pension, the fund is eroded 
to a point  where it reaches £0 and the policy lapses with no value.
Phoenix has explained,  as is common with policies setup around  that time,  that this plan front-loaded  
the charges. So the initial premiums were charged at a higher  rate than usual by whats known as 
capital units. The theory behind this is that the provider  could recoup  a lot of its costs early  on in the 
policy. Then the later premiums are charged at a lower  rate, and are converted  to what are known as 
accumulation units. The capital units used for charges, the accumulation units used to accumulate 
funds for the customer. Unfortunately because Mr L stopped paying his premiums early, the majority 
of units  he purchased were  capital units and so charged at a higher amount than the units  he 
wouldve bought had he continued to pay his premiums.
Ultimately, I believe this is the answer  to Mr Ls complaint  and why his fund hasnt grown as much as 
he thinks it shouldve done. There are other aspects as well, his fund didnt track the FTSE 100 as he 
thought it did. 
Mr L has raised a lot of queries with Phoenix and asked for a lot of information. A lot of this is referring 
back to events that happened 30+ years ago and I dont think  its reasonable to expect that Phoenix 
will hold all the information  that he requires.  I also think  Phoenix has acted  reasonably in answering  
Mr Ls queries. I think its done at least what is required of it to try and answer and provide the 
information Mr L has asked for.
The pension  product that Mr L purchased  is a product  of its time from the late 1980s, more  simplified 
policies with lower charges  such as the stakeholder pension have since been introduced. But this 
doesnt mean  Phoenix has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN65339695I think  the answer to Mr Ls complaint lies in what Ive explained,  the premiums stopping early  and the 
charging structure of the product. And not something that Phoenix has done wrong or anything  hidden 
in the terms  of the policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I am not intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Ref: DRN6533969