K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies sold to Mr and Mrs S by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr and Mrs S say Barclays mis-sold the policies
background
Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays about the sale of several  PPI policies sold to them  by 
Barclays to cover their mortgages.
Barclays has now agreed to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaints about three of the PPI policies 
with policy  numbers ending, 8735;  5011  and 0659. For these policies its agreed to pay 
compensation in line with this services guidelines to put Mr and Mrs S in the position  theyd  
be in if the policies hadnt been sold to them.
Mr and Mrs S also complained about  the sale of two other  PPI policies with policy numbers  
ending 5198  and 3432. These policies came into force in February 2007 and July 2011.  
An adjudicator from this service thought Mr and Mrs S complaints about these two policies 
should be upheld.  
Barclays disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion so the complaints have been  passed to 
me.
In this decision I am only looking at the sale of the two policies ending 5198 and 3432 as 
Barclays has already  agreed  to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaints  about the other  three 
policies and pay fair compensation in line with this services guidelines. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so Ive upheld Mr and Mrs S complaints and Ill explain why.
Barclays has told us that it recommended the policies to Mr and Mrs S. That means it had a 
duty to take steps to ensure the policies were right for them and I dont think  they were.
The PPI policies ending  5198 and 3432  both covered Mr S against  not being  able to work 
due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. And both contained exclusions which meant    
Mr S wouldnt have  been able to make  a sickness claim if he was unable  to work due to a 
pre-existing medical condition.
Mr S didnt mention  any medical conditions in the questionnaire he completed for this 
service. But Ive seen  a copy of a Barclays Combined Fact Find and Additional  Borrowing 
Application Form with advice and related insurance with advice, dated September 2006.
Within this document there are handwritten  notes  that show Mr and Mrs S have had health 
problems in the past. Its clear they have  discussed this with an independent financial 
Ref: DRN67453232adviser. And its noted these health issues created difficulties for them in obtaining life cover 
and critical illness cover at reasonable rates.
So the Barclays adviser was made aware  Mr S had pre-existing health issues.
Yet the Barclays adviser went on to recommend a policy to Mr and Mrs S that was 
unsuitable for Mr S because it excluded claims for pre-existing  medical conditions.
I note the Barclays  adviser wrote  the following on the fact find:
They wish to be covered under the mortgage  care for up to two years. I have advised they 
will need  to go through requalifying terms and conditions which they confirmed  was okay.    
In my view the role of the Barclays adviser  was to gather information and provide 
professional advice which Mr and Mrs S were  entitled to rely on. Its not sufficient to simply 
advise the consumer to read the terms and conditions  for themselves. The failure of the 
Barclays representative to take into account the information provided by Mr and Mrs S, led to 
the adviser recommending an unsuitable  policy.
The second  policy  was sold to Mr and Mrs S in 2011. Again the policy was sold with advice 
so the Barclays  adviser had a duty to take steps to recommend a policy that was right for   
Mr and Mrs S. They were  again sold a policy that excluded pre-existing medical conditions 
that made the policy Barclays sold to them unsuitable for their needs.
I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have agreed  to buy the policies if they had been told they 
were not suitable  for them. So I think theyve lost out and Barclays need to put things right.
In its response to our adjudicators opinion Barclays has said that the information  on the 
2006 factfind showed that, Mr S had full awareness of his medical conditions and the 
implications it could  have,  and made an informed choice  to take the PPI.  
But these  were advised sales, not sales that were made on the basis  of information-only.     
Mr and Mrs S were  entitled to rely on the advice they were  receiving from Barclays.  And 
from what Ive seen  Barclays  recommended they take out the policies. It wasnt Mr and   Mrs  
S role to read the documents and check the Barclays advice was sound.
Barclays has also mentioned that Mr and Mrs S wouldve received documents after the sales  
which they could  have read and then cancelled the policies.  But Barclays  should know it 
cant rely on documents sent after a sale to correct an unsuitable recommendation, which  is 
what I think occurred here.
Barclays has also suggested  that Mr S medical  condition may not have been excluded 
because a box has been ticked on the application  form to say Mr S had not received 
treatment or consulted a doctor in the last 12 months.
Ive thought about this but the terms and conditions of the policy also excludes claims from 
medical conditions  for which Mr S had symptoms in the past 12 months. So even if Mr S 
hadnt actually  seen a doctor in the past 12 months, if hed had symptoms I dont think hed 
be covered.
Ref: DRN67453233In any event Mr S has told us he was diagnosed with his medical  condition  in the early 
1990s and would in fact have seen a doctor within the previous 12 months of applying for 
both policies.
Looking at the form which Barclays refers to, it most likely was completed by the Barclays  
adviser during  the mortgage interview.  And in my view it doesnt appear to have been  
completed in a careful way. There are other questions with boxes which shouldve been 
answered but have  been  left blank.
Ive thought about Barclays response to the adjudicators view but I still think I should uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ss complaints about  the sales of the PPI policies ending  5198 and 3432.
putting things right  
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out the 
PPI policies. The policies  should be cancelled, if they havent been cancelled  already, and 
Barclays should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI policies.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.         
The rate of interest is 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policies ending  5198 or 3432, 
Barclays can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. I note 
Barclays told us that Mr S made a successful claim against policy ending 8735. To be 
clear it cannot deduct the value of this claim from what it owes them for 5198 and 3432 
as they are separate policies. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs S compensation 
as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6745323