K821x#15complaint
Ms P originally  complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996. Santander  initially  said Ms P had no mortgage with 
it and the PPI was sold as a separate policy. But following receipt of some  further  
information it later has accepted PPI was more likely sold in connection with a mortgage  in 
1996.
As a result of Santanders confirmation  that the mortgage was in joint names, this has now 
become a joint complaint. So I will refer to Ms P and Ms K throughout this decision.
background
In November 2019, I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I was intending  to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked the parties  to come back to me with any further comments  they wished me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  
In response to my decision, Ms K said that she had received the decision  and had no further 
comment to make.
Ms P also confirmed receipt. She said she had nothing further to add but she also reiterated 
that the policy was in her sole name;  she had paid for it throughout the period  and in 2002 
the property was transferred into her sole name. So she said the refund  should be paid to 
her and not to Ms K.
Santander confirmed  receipt of my provisional decision. It said it held no other information on 
this case but it disagreed  with it. 
In summary  it said:
Savings can be eroded  by other  exigencies.
The savings were  not specifically set aside  for mortgage repayments and even if they 
were, it could have been  easily  expended on other things  unlike the policy  that was 
sure to pay out in the event a valid claim was made.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy was taken out in Ms Ps name 
only, indicating that they would have  adjudged  the policy suitable to have taken out at 
the time.
It asked that I review my provisional decision in light of the comments it had made.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ref: DRN68778802Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Santander did not agree that Ms Ps savings  should be taken  into account when deciding 
whether this policy was the right fit for Ms P and Ms K. 
Each case is taken on its own merits. In some cases I accept that the PPI policy could  still 
be of benefit to the parties even if they had savings. A mortgage  is an important commitment 
and savings can be used  for other important living expenses and the PPI would be paid out 
in addition to them - so in those cases the PPI could still be useful.
But in the particular circumstances of this case and taking into consideration the evidence 
that Ms P and Ms K provided about Ms Ps savings at that time, on balance, I dont think the 
PPI would have  been suitable.  Ive explained in my provisional decision that these savings 
were at a level that Ms P and Ms K could have paid off the mortgage if the need had arisen. 
Even if thats  not the choice that they ultimately made Ms P and Ms K were at liberty  to hold 
savings and also take out a mortgage.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the paperwork  demonstrated that the outstanding 
amount on the mortgage was a small proportion  of the savings Ms P held according to the 
paperwork she has provided.  Considering the evidence, on balance I think the PPI cover 
was unnecessary for them.  If Ms P couldnt work or lost her job, I think Ms P and Ms K would 
have been able to manage  without the PPI. I think its more likely  they could have paid their 
monthly mortgage repayments for as long,  if not much longer than the PPI would have paid 
out or as Ive said above if they had chosen  to fully payback the mortgage. In addition to 
these savings, Ms P would also have been  entitled  to generous sick pay from work so I think  
Ms P and Ms K could  have managed to pay the mortgage even if they fell into difficulty  and 
Ms P couldnt work or lost her job.
Next, I turn to Ms Ps response to my provisional decision. I dont dispute what  Ms P has told 
me but in this decision I am only making a finding about whether the policy  was mis-sold. Im 
not making any finding about how any redress payable should  be distributed between  Ms P 
and Ms K.
I dont know what was agreed between the parties  in 1996 about how the mortgage was 
paid. It could have  been that one party paid the monthly mortgage  repayments, or this was 
split equally, or unequally.  And I dont  know whether  the mortgage was paid by one person 
to offset other household expenses and bills paid by the other party. But in any event the PPI 
covered the mortgage repayments  on their home.  For example, if Ms P couldnt work or lost 
her job then the policy would more likely have paid out the monthly  mortgage  repayments to 
protect the home  that they both lived in. 
So overall, in this particular case,  I think Ms P and Ms K lost out as a result of what 
Santander did wrong and I uphold this complaint.  To be clear,  Im only making a finding as to 
whether the policy  was mis-sold and whether compensation is due; not who the redress 
should be paid to. Santander should discuss this with the parties and if when the 
compensation is paid any queries arise then they should raise this with Santander.
putting things right  
Santander should put Ms P and Ms K in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. It should:
Ref: DRN68778803Pay Ms P and Ms K the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% .
If Ms P and Ms K made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms P and Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it is requested.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68778804Copy of provisional  decision  
complaint
Ms P originally complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996. Santander initially  said Ms P had no mortgage with it and the PPI was 
sold as a separate policy. But following receipt of some further  information it later has accepted PPI 
was more likely sold in connection with a mortgage in 1996.
As a result  of Santanders confirmation that the mortgage  was in joint names, this has now become a 
joint complaint  so I will refer throughout  this provisional  decision to Ms P and Ms K. 
background
Ms P took out her mortgage  jointly with Ms K in 1996. Ms P also took out a PPI policy in her name 
only at around the same time. The policy covered Ms P (not Ms K) if she was off work through  an 
accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
Initially the PPI cost £19.39 and would have paid out the monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator looked  at this complaint and told the parties he didnt think  it should be upheld. Ms P 
and Ms K disagreed with this view and asked that their matter be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Santander doesnt have  all the paperwork  and originally said there was no mortgage sold with this 
policy. Further  information  was sent to Santander following which  it accepted  that a mortgage had 
more likely  been  sold at around the same time as the PPI. It isnt unusual  for a business  not to hold all 
the paperwork from so long ago and its understandable as businesses arent  required  to keep its 
records indefinitely. But where  the information is incomplete or inconsistent, I will make my decision 
based on the balance  of probabilities - that is what is more likely to have happened given the 
evidence available, what the parties have told me, and what we know  generally about these  types of 
sale at that time.
 
This was a recommended  sale.  This put more  responsibility on Santander for how it sold the policy. If 
Ms P and Ms K were advised to buy the cover, Santander had to make sure it was suitable  for their 
needs. It also had to give Ms P and Ms K enough clear  information so they could decide for 
themselves if they wanted  a policy. To help me decide  whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions  of the cover. And Ive also thought about what Ms P and Ms K have told us 
about their personal circumstances  at the time.
Looking at their circumstances, Im intending  to decide I dont  think this was a suitable policy. I say 
this because when Ms P and Ms K bought their complaint to us, they said in summary that the PPI 
was unnecessary given Ms Ps employment circumstances and her savings. Ms P sent in evidence 
that she had substantial savings. The evidence shows that her savings were held at around the same 
time as she bought her PPI. It seems that these  savings  were held in a portfolio  and Ms P has told us 
that these  savings  were in personal  equity plans or in stock market funds. Sometimes these  kinds of 
Ref: DRN68778805investments are not always so easily  accessible.  Ms P says they were  easily accessible,  and shes 
told us there was also a cash account with a float for any urgent needs. If Ms P was off work, she 
would have also received  full sick pay for 6 months.  I think what  she has told me is plausible and I 
accept that Ms P could  have likely accessed her savings if there was an urgent  need to do so.
Ive also looked at the mortgage information. Ms P and Ms K provided a copy  of the certificate of loan 
interest paid in the tax year 1996/1997. I can see from this paperwork that the outstanding  amount on 
the mortgage was a small  proportion of the savings  Ms P held according to the paperwork  she has 
provided. Considering the evidence  provided, Im intending to find that the PPI cover  was 
unnecessary for them.  If Ms P and Ms K couldnt work  or lost their jobs, I think they would have been 
able to manage without the PPI. I think its more likely they could have paid their monthly mortgage 
repayments for as long,  if not much longer than the PPI would have  paid out. 
So overall taking into account all the circumstances  Im intending  to uphold this complaint. I dont think  
Ms P and Ms K needed the PPI policy  at all and I dont think it was suitable for their circumstances. 
And if theyd been given more information about the cover, I dont  think  they would  have taken  it out.
I think  they lost out financially as a result of what Santander did wrong  and I am intending to uphold 
this complaint.
putting things  right  
Santander should put Ms P and Ms K in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. It 
should:
Pay Ms P and Ms K the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% .
If Ms P and Ms K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms P and 
Ms K a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if it is requested.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information received  by the parties, I have provisionally  decided  to uphold Ms P 
and Ms Ks complaint in full and direct Santander UK Plc to pay them  all the compensation as Ive 
outlined above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 27 
December 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6877880