K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited invested the funds she 
was due to take as tax free cash (TFC)   when she transferred her pension  to it from another 
provider in late 2017. As a result, a sell-down of funds  was required to provide  the 25% 
required for the TFC. But as the fund value had dropped  during  this period, Mrs M says she 
suffered a loss. 
Mrs M is being  represented in this complaint  by her financial adviser.
background
Mrs M received advice from her financial  adviser  to transfer her pension plan with another 
provider to a Prudential Retirement Account. She wanted to take TFC immediately and an 
annual income  of just over £19,125. The illustration and application were completed  online 
by Mrs Ms financial adviser. However,  only 2.4% of the fund was allocated to the cash 
account, the remainder  was invested.  This meant  there was insufficient  money  in the cash 
account to pay the TFC. So it was necessary to sells funds. However, by the time the funds  
were sold,  the fund value  had reduced  by around 1% so Mrs M received less TFC than she 
was expecting. 
Mrs Ms adviser complained to Prudential on her behalf. Prudential reviewed matters but 
didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that as the account was adviser led, it was fair to assume  
the adviser would  have  been fully aware  that in order to make the initial  25% TFC payment,  
this percentage  would have had to be moved  over to the cash account to avoid the sell down 
of funds. 
Mrs M remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to this service for independent  
review. Shes being represented in her complaint by her financial adviser.  
One of our investigators  reviewed matters but she didnt think Prudential had done anything  
wrong. In summary  she said that Prudential was acting on the instructions given and she 
couldnt see that it had made an error.  She thought the illustration was clear in setting out 
how income is paid and what happens  if there isnt enough in the cash account. And she 
thought that the adviser had been offered the opportunity  to go through  the process by a 
Prudential representative  but he hadnt  taken this up.  
Mrs M and her financial adviser didnt accept  the investigators findings. In summary they 
said: 
Mrs M has requested maximum TFC to be paid immediately but Prudential didnt act 
on this instruction when the funds were received. Instead it invested the money and 
immediately had to disinvest it to carry out an instruction it already knew  about.  The 
adviser had no control over the order in which Prudential dealt with the requests 
made in the application.   
During the application process, theres  no suggestion that theres  a need for the 
required TFC to be placed in the cash account,  why would there be when the funds 
were to be held in cash initially?
Ref: DRN65542452Its never been the case that any provider would design  a product where an 
instruction to provide immediate TFC was ignored in favour of immediate investment. 
Theres no logic to having a process  that would allow  money to be invested only to 
need to be immediately disinvested. 
This was a brand new product and advisers were  heavily  reliant on representatives  at 
Prudential to talk the through the illustration choices. In the case of Mrs M, the 
illustration was put together during a phone call with the representative.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service would be able to ask if Prudential  has changed 
its system for paying tax free cash as its unclear during  the application process what  
will be paid from where and when.  
Theres unnecessary  confusion with the illustration  by referring to TFC as Income; its 
not an income payment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reach  by the investigator,  for mostly the same reasons. 
Its not in dispute  that Mrs M received less TFC cash than she was expecting because  the 
funds were invested and the value dropped between the initial  investment and the TFC 
being paid. But I can only hold Prudential liable for any loss suffered if I think it made  a 
mistake when setting the plan up. And having  considered everything carefully, I dont think it 
did.
This was an adviser  led sale and its expected  that advisers have an understanding  of how 
the products theyre recommending and arranging work. So I wouldnt expect Prudential  to 
question instructions received from a regulated financial  adviser.  
Having said that, I acknowledge the advisers  comments that this was a new product and 
they arent aware of any others where  the TFC is invested when there is an immediate 
instruction for it to be paid. But its not for me to comment  on how Prudential choses to set 
up and operate  its products. All I can do is look at whether the information provided was 
clear. 
I think its important to note that this isnt simply a drawdown product. The policy terms 
explain that this product  is designed to be used by account holders to save  for retirement.  
And when  they reach retirement  age, it enables individuals  to access  their benefits by opting  
to drawdown or take lump  sums, without the need to switch  to another  product.  
In the case of Mrs M, it appears  she received advice to transfer her pension from a previous 
scheme to the Prudential  Retirement Account so she could access  her benefits immediately. 
Therefore rather than using the product to save for retirement, she moved straight into 
drawdown. It is possible to use the account in this way but this means - certainly in terms of 
how funds are dealt with when theyre  first transferred  - it operates  in a slightly  different way 
to a standalone drawdown plan. But Im satisfied the policy terms explain how transfer 
payments are treated. 
Ref: DRN65542453I say this because  Part A: General  Terms and Conditions for the Retirement Account states:
3. Accounts
3.2     All contributions and transfer  payments will go into your Pension Savings 
Account. Drawdown transfers  will be paid into your Pension Income Account (see 
section 3.4)
I think this term makes  it clear that the transfer  payment would be placed in the Pension 
Savings Account. So I think Prudential were right to invest the money when  it was initially  
received, in accordance with the instructions  provided on the illustration. Im also satisfied 
that the terms explained that TFC is paid from the cash account and if theres insufficient 
money in the cash account, funds will be sold. In particular,  Payments  from your Retirement 
Account states:
23.11 Tax-free  cash, regular  UFPLS and income  payments  work  in the following 
way:
23.11.1 Step 1: Seven days  before the payment date we will check  if there  is 
sufficient money in your cash account. If there is enough  money  it is ring-fenced  for 
the income payment. If there is not enough  money  we move to step 2.
23.11.2 Step 2: we will sell investments as previously instructed by you and then 
move the proceeds  to your cash account.  If your instruction cant  be followed as 
there is not enough  money in the investments you instructed us to sell, or if there is a 
delay in selling your investments for one of the reasons set out in Section 16, we 
move to step 3.
23.11.3 Step 3: We will sell a proportionate amount of all of your available  
investments and move the required amount of money to your cash account .
Ive considered the illustration the adviser completed. I think  this made it clear the TFC 
would be treated as an income payment. I say this because the TFC is listed under the 
income payment  section  of the illustration. 
Ive also listened  to a recording of a telephone  call between the Prudential  representative  
and the adviser.  The discussion relates  to the annual income payment and what needs  to be 
done to ensure sufficient funds are in the cash account for this to be paid. I appreciate that 
this adviser only referenced the annual income payment during this call. But Im conscious 
that the representative offered to talk the adviser  through the process  over the phone  and, 
he also offered the check the illustration. The adviser declined  these offers  due to the limited  
time he had remaining to get the illustration submitted.  But I think its likely  that - had these 
offers been  taken  up  any misunderstanding  regarding the TFC would likely have come to 
light. 
But as stands, Im not satisfied that it would be fair or reasonable for me to uphold  this 
complaint against  Prudential.  I dont consider it made an error or a mistake.  So its not 
responsible for any loss Mrs M has suffered. 
Ref: DRN65542454my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6554245