K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Pounds to Pocket)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Pounds  to Pocket provided to Mr C from 
February 2011 onwards. Mr Cs last loan was provided in October 2012. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought  that loans three  and four 
shouldnt have been given. 
Pounds to Pocket disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the parties  havent  been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Pounds to Pocket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr C could repay  the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Pounds  to Pocket should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Pounds  to Pocket  was required to 
establish whether  Mr C could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this is 
wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be 
Ref: DRN65092162an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Pounds to Pockets lending history  with Mr C, I think  
that Pounds  to Pocket should reasonably have seen that Mr C was unlikely to have been 
able to make  his loan repayments in a sustainable  manner  by the time it provided loan three. 
I say this because:
By this stage, Mr C was into his sixteenth  consecutive month of owing Pounds to 
Pocket money. In my view, Pounds to Pockets  lending history with Mr C until this 
point was in itself a clear demonstration  of Mr Cs inability  to settle his loans over the 
life of the credit agreement. The amount of Mr Cs third loan was for more than his 
second and he was provided  with loan three on the same day he made his final 
payment for loan two.   
Mr C continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid  previous 
ones. So Pounds to Pocket ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loans left in his 
finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.  
Mr C was provided with what were supposed to be short-term loans over an 
extended period.  And this meant that Mr Cs indebtedness was being prolonged for 
an extended period of time. Mr C paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a 
debt to Pounds to Pocket over an extended  period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Pounds to Pocket provided loans three and four because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr C owed  Pounds to Pocket money was likely to have 
had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans three and four and Pounds to Pocket should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Pounds to Pocket needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan three;
Ref: DRN65092163pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan four from the outset. The payments 
Mr C has made towards loan four so far should be deducted from the new starting 
balance;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest.  
Pounds to Pocket must give Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan four even after all the interest  and 
charges are removed. Pounds to Pocket can deduct  this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mr C should  it wish to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Pounds to Pocket) should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6509216