K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Limited  failed to deal with the encashment  of some 
pension benefits  in a timely manner, and in particular that it failed to take account  of a 
medical condition  that affected him. He also complains that Phoenix required him to take 
advice from a financial advisor before it would pay the benefits to him.
background
Mr T suffered a stroke  in 2014. He says that this makes it difficult  for him, amongst many 
other things,  to speak  on the telephone. So he has been assisted in his dealings with 
Phoenix, and in making this complaint, by a third party.  But for ease, I will generally refer in 
this decision to all communication as having been  with, and from, Mr T.
Mr T held pension savings with Phoenix. After suffering his stroke in 2014 he started to 
discuss with Phoenix  the options he had to take his benefits. From the information that 
Phoenix has given  to us Mr T started  to discuss taking his benefits on several occasions 
between 2014  and 2017 but didnt ultimately do so. 
In October  2017 Mr T let Phoenix  know that he had decided to take all his pension benefits  
as a single  lump sum. But, in line with its normal practice, Phoenix sought  confirmation from 
Mr T that he had fully considered all the other ways in which  he could use his pension 
benefits. After a further quotation had been  issued in November 2017, Mr T returned  the 
completed claim option form to Phoenix in December 2017.
But given the size of the payment  being made to him, and since  he was giving  up a 
guaranteed annuity amount, the relevant legislation required Mr T to take financial  advice  
before his pension  could  be paid.  Mr T returned the relevant confirmation to Phoenix  in 
January 2018  and his pension benefits  were  paid to him around a week  later.
When Mr T first complained to Phoenix it didnt uphold his complaint. But Phoenix thought 
that it could have communicated more effectively  with him. So Phoenix  offered to pay £100  
to Mr T. Phoenix later offered to increase that compensation to £200 and pay Mr T a further 
£100 for the time it had taken to respond  to his complaint. Mr T rejected Phoenixs offer and 
brought his complaint to this Service.
Since making that complaint  a further  issue has arisen with the tax code  that Phoenix used, 
and reported,  when making the pension payment to Mr T. As that matter didnt form part of 
the original complaint it is reasonable  for Phoenix to ask that the matter  be considered 
separately. So I understand that we have opened  an additional complaint on behalf of Mr T 
to deal with that matter.  I wont therefore  make any further comment on this issue in this 
decision.
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mr T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process.
Ref: DRN68935262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr T and by Phoenix.  Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made  my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
From what  he says,  it appears that Mr Ts health makes it difficult  to communicate with 
Phoenix by telephone.  So I would  expect Phoenix, once it was aware  of those problems, to 
make reasonable adjustments to allow Mr T to transact his business as easily as possible. 
But in saying  that I havent seen  anything that makes me think  Phoenix deliberately ignored 
Mr Ts ill-health, or put barriers in place to make things more  difficult for him.
Mr Ts pension savings  contained a valuable guaranteed annuity rate. That means that the 
pension he might receive from Phoenix would most  likely  be better than he might receive 
from another provider.  In allowing Mr T to take benefits of this nature in the form of a lump  
sum Phoenix  needed to ensure that Mr T was aware of all the options he had. And to be 
clear, that requirement wasnt as a result of Phoenixs internal  policies   the requirement 
was set down  in legislation and would  be monitored by Phoenixs  regulator.
So the advice  Mr T needed  to take was in a prescribed form. It needed  to be given to him by 
a financial advisor  that had the permission of the Financial Conduct  Authority to carry out 
regulated activities  in relation to pension full encashment advice. Whilst I am sure that Mr T, 
and the others with whom he discussed the matter, felt able to understand  the issues  at 
hand, Phoenix needed to comply with the relevant legislation.  So I think it was entirely 
reasonable for Phoenix to insist that Mr T took appropriate financial advice before it allowed 
him to take his pension benefits  as a lump sum.
I can agree  that it seems  to have been a considerable time since Mr T first told Phoenix that 
he wanted to discuss taking his benefits in 2014 to his payment being made in 
January 2018.  But that doesnt appear to have been  as a result  of Phoenix doing  anything 
wrong. From the information that Phoenix  has provided, and I havent seen anything  that 
makes me think that information is inaccurate, Phoenix responded promptly  to each  of 
Mr Ts requests for quotations about  his retirement benefits. But without  Mr T confirming his 
chosen option it couldnt proceed any further.  In fact I think  it would have been  reasonable at 
those times  for Phoenix to conclude  that Mr T had decided not to take his benefits for the 
time being.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mr T to need to pay a significant sum 
to a financial advisor before he could access his pension benefits.  But Phoenixs hands  were 
tied by the relevant legislation. And I dont  think Phoenix has treated Mr T unfairly in its 
communication with him, even after taking account  of the problems that Mr T says he faces  
following his stroke. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
It is for Phoenix to decide whether its offer of compensation of £300  remains  available to 
Mr T. If he now wishes to accept that offer he should  get in touch with the business  direct.
Ref: DRN68935263my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6893526