K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms M says Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr L and Ms M took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy, which only covered Mr L.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L and Ms M disagreed with this, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Ms Ms case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
The sale was over 25 years ago, so theres  understandably limited evidence  available  
from the time of sale. Im also mindful that Nationwide has said that, because the 
mortgage was for the full value of the property, it wouldve been compulsory that PPI be 
taken. So, I dont  think I can reasonably say that Nationwide  didnt make  Mr L and Ms M 
aware whether  they had a choice  about buying the PPI, or that they didnt agree to it. I 
understand that Mr L and Ms M say they dont  think PPI was discussed  and that they 
think it was added  without their consent. But I dont think  I should uphold the complaint 
based on their recollection  of events  when they happened so long ago, and Mr L and 
Ms M understandably dont seem to have a very clear recollection  of what happened. 
Nationwide says it didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr L and Ms M. But even if they did, I 
think it was right for them. Mr L says he had no sick pay or other way to keep up with 
repayments if he couldnt work. So, the PPI wouldve provided useful cover if hed been  
unable to work due to accident, sickness or redundancy.
I dont know how Nationwide explained the cost of the PPI. So, its possible that 
Nationwide couldve explained  it better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr L and Ms 
M would still have bought it  bearing in mind what it cost and the level of benefit it 
offered. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr L 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Because the mortgage ended in 2003,  the regulators rules  on high levels of undisclosed 
commission and profit share dont apply. So I dont think Nationwide  needs to refund  any 
commission or profit share that Mr L and Ms M may have paid. 
Ref: DRN62081682Ive taken into account Mr L and Ms Ms comments.  But these points dont  change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr L and Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6208168