K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his company,  who Ill refer to as J Limited. He complains about 
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limiteds  (trading as Cashplus)  decision to review and 
subsequently close J Limiteds accounts.  He wants compensation  for the losses  J Limited 
has suffered as a result  of Cashplus actions.
background
J Limited held an account  with Cashplus. In April 2018, Cashplus reviewed J Limiteds  
account and made a decision  to end their relationship  with them.  They gave J Limited 60 
days verbal notice  of their intention  to close the account.
A couple of days later,  Mr S called Cashplus and asked for access to the funds immediately. 
But Cashplus said they would  send  him a cheque within 30 days  as per the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Mr S says he had to use a credit  card because he didnt have access  to the funds. And he 
said J Limited suffered  as a result of Cashplus  actions because some of their Direct Debits 
werent paid and they had a loan and credit  card application declined. He complained  to 
Cashplus.
Cashplus didnt uphold  the complaint. They said they were acting within their regulatory 
obligations and under section 12.5 of their terms and conditions  when  reviewing and 
subsequently closing J Limiteds account. And they said they would issue the cheque within 
30 days which is also in line with the terms and conditions. Mr S remained unhappy so 
brought the complaint to our service.
In the meantime, Cashplus sent two cheques for the full balance of the account  in May 2018. 
And these  were cashed by Mr S, on behalf of J Limited, around 16 May 2018.
The investigator didnt  think Cashplus had acted unreasonably. She was satisfied Cashplus 
gave J Limited appropriate  notice in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. And 
while she didnt know the exact date the cheques with the balance were  received, she 
thought it was more likely than not theyd complied with the 30 days timeframe because  the 
cheques were cashed around 16 May 2018. She also hadnt  seen that the actions of 
Cashplus had affected J Limiteds credit  file in the way Mr S described.
Mr S, on behalf of J Limited,  didnt agree. In particular he said J Limited needed  
compensation from Cashplus for the trouble and damage to J Limiteds credibility.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
account review and closure
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly  about this complaint.  But Cashplus are entitled to review the 
accounts under the account  terms and conditions. And Cashplus arent generally obliged  to 
Ref: DRN63619552provide an explanation as to why transactions cant be carried  out at the moment an account 
holder is seeking  to make them, or as to why funds are generally not accessible.
Having looked  at the evidence, like the investigator, Im satisfied that Cashplus acted in line 
with their legal  and regulatory obligations  when it blocked and reviewed  J Limiteds account. 
Cashplus is entitled to close an account with J Limited just as J Limited  may close their 
account with Cashplus. But before Cashplus closes an account, they must do so in a way, 
which complies with the terms  and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Cashplus and J Limited had to comply 
with  say that Cashplus  could close the account  by giving  60 days  notice.  Cashplus  have  
done this. So they are entitled to close the account.
I know Mr S is frustrated  that J Limited  hasnt been given a proper explanation why their 
account was closed. But under the terms and conditions Cashplus doesnt have to give a 
reason for doing so  in the same  way a customer doesnt have to, should  they no longer 
want to bank with them. So I cant say Cashplus has done anything wrong by not giving 
J Limited this information.
returning the funds
I recognise Mr S is unhappy J Limited  didnt have access to the funds in the account straight 
away after Cashplus made  the decision to close. Ive considered  what the terms and 
conditions say about when money  should be returned. And Im satisfied the terms and 
conditions state  the process  to return funds can take up to 30 days.
Im not sure of the exact date J Limited  received the cheques. However  I have seen they 
were cashed  around mid-May 2018. Cashplus told J Limited  they would release the funds 
after 30 days  of the closure notice. And as that was given in April 2018, Im satisfied its 
more likely than not Cashplus did adhere to the 30-day timeframe.
compensation
Mr S has said Cashplus actions have  caused distress.  And their actions  have damaged 
J Limiteds credibility. Hes also provided  evidence to show  a loan and credit card application 
was declined. While I dont doubt this has been a difficult time for J Limited, I havent seen 
enough to show  me that it was the actions of Cashplus which resulted in the lending 
applications being declined. It doesnt  appear Cashplus have added any external markers to 
J Limiteds credit file and therefore Im not satisfied their actions have led to this.
But even if they had, Ive found  that Cashplus were entitled to act in the way they did. So 
while I appreciate  Mr S thinks J Limited should  receive compensation for the distress 
Cashplus caused them, Im not going  to ask them to compensate J Limited. And thats 
because Cashplus acted  in line with their terms and conditions when closing J Limiteds 
account.
overall
In summary,  I know my decision will come as a great  frustration and disappointment to both 
Mr S and J Limited. But having looked  at whats happened here I dont think  Cashplus acted 
Ref: DRN63619553unreasonably or outside the terms and conditions of the accounts. So I wont be asking  them 
to do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J Limited to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361955