K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under  his van insurance policy.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr Ms van was damaged in a freak storm by hail stones and so he made  a claim under his 
van insurance policy. The claim didnt  go smoothly and it took over six months for his van to 
be repaired. This was because  the repairs were unusual and required a number of 
assessments in order to clarify whether the van was repairable and how it would be repaired.
Mr M wanted to ensure  that his warranty  wasnt affected and to you use his own repairer.  
However, the claim process broke  down  and there  was a clear breakdown in communication  
between both sides. UKI wanted Mr M to have his van assessed by a company that 
specialises in the repair of small dents but Mr M didnt feel this was appropriate. This was 
because they werent  an approved repairer  as far as his vehicle manufacturer was 
concerned, and so would invalidate his warranty.
At this point the claim stopped progressing.  Mr M employed a solicitor  and made a number  
of requests including  a Data Subject  Access Request (DSAR). It was eventually agreed  that 
the small dent repairer could assess Mr Ms vehicle and that any work undertaken by them  
would be overseen  by a repairer who was approved by the vehicle manufacturer  and the 
claim was settled.
But as Mr M wasnt  happy  he complained  to this service. Our adjudicator looked into things 
for him and upheld  his complaint. She thought that UKI had contributed to some  of the 
delays and failed  to deal with the DSAR request from Mr M so she awarded £400
compensation (£100 in relation to the DSAR and £300 in relation to the claim). However,  she 
didnt award Mr M any of the legal costs he incurred. This was because she was of the view 
that Mr M was able to advance his complaint to our service and didnt  need  to gain legal 
advice to settle his claim.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld  and I feel that the level of compensation should be increased. But Im not 
proposing to cover Mr Ms legal costs. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but 
Ill explain  why.
I know Mr M has raised a number of concerns. But as his vehicle has now been fully 
repaired to his satisfaction the key issues to consider are the delay in repairing  his vehicle 
and whether UKI should pay for his legal costs.  I will go over a few of his other concerns but 
these are the main  issues.
Ref: DRN65355312Ultimately, the claim was delayed for months  and couldve been dealt with in a more timely 
fashion. I think both sides are partly to blame for this but Im sure a clearer  explanation from 
UKI before it sent its final response  letter,  giving  referral  rights  to this service, would have 
allowed the claim to be settled quicker. Indeed,  if Mr M contacted this service  at that point in 
time, instead of instructing a solicitor, then Im sure the claim and complaint wouldve been  
settled quicker.
Mr M clearly had genuine concerns about the validity of his warranty if his vehicle was 
worked on by anyone that would invalidate his warranty. As he points out, he was entitled to 
use his own repairer  if he wished. And ultimately the specialist dent company  was used but 
under the direction of a manufacturer approved repairer which meant his warranty  was fine. 
As I say with some clear explanation at the time from UKI Im sure that this hurdle  would  
have been overcome far earlier.
Once the relationship broke  down  at this stage it was difficult  to put back together. Ideally 
Mr M shouldve let the specialist dent company  assess  his car  this didnt mean  it would 
undertake all or any of the repairs, just that it was assessing the damage. But as this didnt 
happen both sides became entrenched  and Mr M was suspicious of UKI and its attempts at 
negotiating a settlement. I can understand his frustration when it said it would cancel his 
policy if he didnt cooperate. He was cooperating  it is just that he felt that he was being 
pushed down a path that he didnt  want to take.  This was because the protection of his 
warranty was important  to him.
As UKI didnt explain its position about the further  assessment  very well; allay Mr Ms fears  
about his warranty;  and threatened to cancel his policy I think  it should pay Mr M £500 
compensation. I say this as this as Mr M had to drive round in a van that wasnt fully repaired 
and he faced a fair degree of stress in dealing with this matter  over a prolonged period of 
time.
However, although I have some sympathy  with the fact that Mr M incurred legal fees I cant 
hold UKI responsible for this. I say this as Mr M was clearly aware of this service and the fact 
that he could complain to us, so he couldve approached us before he spoke to a solicitor.  
UKI had given him referral rights to this service and Mr M told UKI that he would refer the 
matter to this service before he instructed a solicitor.
I know Mr M has said that he wasnt familiar  with contract law or his rights at that time but Id 
still have expected him to speak to this service first. As I say this may well have drawn the 
matter to a close far earlier and many solicitors tell clients to exhaust this service in the first 
instance. This is because  we are a free alternative  to the courts.
 Finally, I can understand Mr Ms frustration about  UKIs inability  to deal with his DSAR  
request within  a reasonable time frame. I know he has suspicions as to why it delayed  and 
didnt answer his request but this didnt affect this complaint. Mr M feels that there is missing 
detail in relation  to attempts to negotiate a cash-in-lieu settlement amongst other things. But 
ultimately this didnt have  an affect on how his claim was settled. So, although I would 
expect UKI to comply  with his DSAR request Im not intending to go over the detail here as it 
hasnt had an affect. As Mr M has been  advised  he is free to advance this to the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) but I feel that £100  is sufficient  compensation for UKIs failure 
to deal with his DSAR request in a reasonable period of time.
Ref: DRN65355313replies
UKI said that it accepted that it should pay £100 compensation for its failure to deal with the 
DSAR request. But it felt that an additional  £500  compensation  was excessive. It said it was 
clear in its final response and did provide comment about the warranty  of the vehicle. It said 
that it should be noted that Mr Ms vehicle was mobile throughout this time and therefore  felt 
a figure  of £250  was a fairer reflection of the stress and inconvenience caused.  
In relation to the legal costs incurred  by Mr M, UKI said that it didnt see that it should be 
held responsible for these. This was because it felt that it made  it clear  to Mr M that he could 
refer his complaint  to this service free of charge.
While Mr M said he was surprised that he wasnt awarded his legal costs,  especially as I was 
looking to find in his favour. He went  onto question how quickly  that this service wouldve 
been able to help and feels that he was forced to go to a solicitor in order  to get his vehicle 
fixed. Mr M quoted some  of this services  general  response times in support of his argument 
and outlined the timescales involved in looking at this complaint. Ultimately, Mr M feels that 
the matter wouldve been drawn out further  if he hadnt appointed  a solicitor.
Mr M also questions  whether this service  was able to get his claim settled and says that this 
service cant compel an insurer to honour a contract. He feels  that we are simply here to 
award compensation. 
Mr M feels that if he hadnt instructed his solicitor  then his vehicle wouldnt have been  
repaired. And he was compelled to approach a solicitor, and then a barrister, because  of 
UKIs refusal  to respond to his SAR request. 
Mr M also questioned whether the repairs were unusual and feels that the vehicle shouldve 
been repaired a lot quicker and reiterates that he didnt prevent the van being inspected  by 
the dent company, just that he required confirmation that his warranties would not be lost. 
He highlights that in response to this UKI threatened to cancel his policy  if he didnt 
cooperate, so all of this also pushed Mr M to appoint a solicitor.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain of the view that 
this complaint should be upheld.
UKI predominantly accept  the position outlined in my provisional  decision. Although it agreed 
that it should pay £100 compensation in relation to its inability  to deal with his DSAR  it felt 
the additional compensation should be reduced  to £250. This was because it feels that it 
communicated its position to Mr M reasonably well and commented about  the warranty  of 
the vehicle. 
While I understand its position  Im satisfied that £500, as opposed to £250, more adequately 
reflects the fact that it didnt  fully allay Mr Ms fears about the warranty  and threatened to 
cancel his policy which clearly worried Mr M. And although his vehicle was driveable it 
wasnt fully repaired and, as is clear from Mr Ms representations, Mr M has faced a fair 
degree of stress.
Ref: DRN65355314Turning to Mr Ms comments on the provisional  decision his main concern  is that his legal 
costs are not being paid by UKI. I know Mr M questions whether  this service wouldve been  
able to help or speed things along. But this service is a free alternative to involving the legal 
profession and the courts.  As UKI has said, it made it clear  to Mr M that he couldve 
approached this service  if he wasnt happy with how his claim was handled at an early  stage. 
As such,  Im surprised  Mr M didnt advance a complaint to our service before contacting a 
solicitor.
I must highlight that we are here to mediate disputes  between  consumers and insurers. 
Depending on the particular circumstances of a case then we can require insurers  to settle 
claims even when they have initially declined to do so, or determine how a claim should be 
fairly concluded. Similarly, we may decide that the way a business has dealt with a claim 
wasnt unreasonable and we may or may not award  compensation.  We certainly arent here 
only to award compensation as Mr M seems  to believe.
Mr M couldve looked into how this service could have helped  him by making contact and he 
accepts that he was made aware of our service at a relatively early  stage. Indeed,  as 
outlined above,  his solicitor couldve advised  him accordingly. 
Advancing his complaint through this service  may,  or may not, have moved things to 
satisfactory conclusion at an earlier stage. But the final settlement is exactly the kind of 
conclusion to a complaint  that this service  regularly mediates. Indeed  the matter wouldve 
been mediated far quicker if legal costs  werent  in dispute. Ultimately, I dont think  it would 
be fair to ask UKI to pay Mr Ms legal costs  when he could  have utilised this service for free. 
So I think that UKI should pay £600 compensation, including  £100  for its failure to deal with 
the DSAR request (which Mr M is free to advance to the ICO). But I see no reason why it 
should pay Mr Ms legal fees for the reasons outlined above.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that Im upholding this complaint.  I require  U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr M a total of £600 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6535531