K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is a director  of a limited company, C. He complains on the companys behalf  about the 
service received from Lloyds Bank PLC when  he paid in a cheque  (Lloyds).
Background
At the end of February  2019, Mr S paid a cheque for £600 into his Lloyds account using the 
immediate deposit  machine (IDM)  in a branch. The following day Mr S realised hed paid 
the cheque into the wrong  account  so he went  back to the branch to ask for the cheque 
back. 
Lloyds said they couldnt return the cheque as it had been  sent to their central team.  But 
they said once  theyd identified it was the wrong  account the team would return  it to Mr S by 
post. Mr S didnt receive the cheque back so in mid-March 2019 he called Lloyds for an 
update. Lloyds said they couldnt return the cheque  as it had already been deposited and 
wasnt in the same name as the account. 
Mr S explained to Lloyds  that C is a cheque exchange agent so he was unable to request  for 
the cheque to be re-issued. So he asked them to either  return the cheque or pay him the 
£600 he wouldve  received. Lloyds said they couldnt do this so Mr S made a complaint.  
Lloyds upheld Mr Ss complaint in part. They apologised for telling Mr S his cheque would be 
returned in the post which  wasnt the case.  They explained their process was to destroy  any 
cheques which were  rejected through the IDM, which is what had happened  to Mr Ss 
cheque. So they felt theyd followed their process  correctly.  However,  they acknowledged 
theyd given incorrect information so they offered  Mr S £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused, plus any related call costs.  
Mr S didnt agree as he felt Lloyds should refund  him the £600. So he asked  this service to 
look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  Lloyds had acted in 
line with their terms and conditions by not returning the cheque.  He also thought the 
compensation Lloyds had offered Mr S for giving  him the wrong  information  was fair.
Mr S agreed it wasnt Lloyds fault the cheque had been paid into the wrong  account.  But he 
still felt the compensation theyd offered wasnt enough, so he asked for an ombudsman to 
look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Mr S feels  Lloyds  have treated him unfairly as they wouldnt return  a cheque  to him after 
hed paid it into the wrong account. But Ive seen evidence Mr S paid in a cheque which was 
in the name  of an individual into Cs account. Ive looked at Lloyds IDM cheque deposit 
factsheet which says the payee name on each cheque must  match  the name of the account 
the cheque is being paid into: Where the names dont match, cheques  will be rejected. So I 
cant say Lloyds acted  unreasonably by not clearing the cheque. 
Ref: DRN69167762Ive seen that the same factsheet  also says Original cheques paid in will not be returned  to 
you if they do not clear  successfully. Cheques clear through the Image  Clearing System  
digitally and the cheque image  becomes the legal instrument. If cheques  are rejected you 
will be notified by letter, which will include an image of the cheque. You will need  to seek an 
alternative payment  or replacement cheque from the payer. So I think Lloyds  followed  their 
process correctly and Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have received his cheque back  even if he 
hadnt been given the incorrect  information in the branch. 
Theres no dispute that Lloyds made an error  in telling  Mr S the cheque  would  be returned to 
him in the post. But Lloyds have apologised for giving him incorrect  information and offered 
£50 compensation  plus the cost of any related calls. Mr S said hes not happy  with the 
compensation amount as the incorrect information has cost him £600 as he couldnt ask the 
payer for another  cheque. And if hed known what was going  to happen to the cheque he 
wouldve demanded its return. 
But Im satisfied that even  if Mr S had demanded the cheque  be returned to him, Lloyds 
process wouldve  prevented the branch staff from doing so. I recognise Mr Ss frustration 
that he cant obtain another cheque from the payer   but I cant  hold Lloyds responsible  for 
this as it wasnt caused by their error.  
Its not for me to punish or fine the bank for making a mistake,  and taking into account all the 
circumstances I think the compensation offered by Lloyds is reasonable. So I wont  be 
asking them to increase it. I understand Mr S will be disappointed but I think  that Lloyds have 
done enough to put things right.
Next steps
Lloyds have already made an offer to pay Mr S £50, plus any related call costs,  to settle the 
complaint. Mr S should contact Lloyds directly if he wishes  to accept this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6916776