K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) turned  down  her 
unemployment claim. 
background
In 2017, Mrs L took out an unemployment  insurance  policy  with L&G.  It was sold through an 
intermediary. The aim of the policy was to pay a monthly benefit of £2,000 in the event Mrs L 
became involuntarily  unemployed.
In June 2018, Mrs L was made redundant from her employed occupation and made  a claim. 
L&G turned down the claim because Mrs L remained  a registered partner of a limited liability  
partnership (LLP) which was still trading. L&G said that in order  for her to make  a successful 
claim, the LLP would need to cease to trade. 
Mrs L complained to L&G about its decision. She explained  that she didnt work for the LLP 
and had never received an income from it. L&G maintained its decision to turn down the 
claim. It thought that as Mrs L was a registered partner of the LLP, she had the opportunity  
to earn a salary from this. Unhappy with L&Gs decision, Mrs L brought  a complaint to this 
service. Meanwhile, she went back to work on 31 December  2018.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2019. My provisional findings  were:
The policy  says:
If you are both employed and self-employed, you can make a claim if your 
employment ends  unexpectedly and the circumstances of your unemployment  are 
beyond your control and you have  ceased to trade.
Self-employed is defined as:
You are a director of, or you own your own company or business
As Mrs L is a partner in an LLP, I appreciate that she falls under the policy definition of self-
employed. However, I dont think it was fair for L&G to turn down  the claim. Ill explain why. 
There will be circumstances  where  someone  is self-employed and able to take an income 
from their business, but they choose  not to do so and instead that profit would be directed to 
their business instead. I think  that situation  is what L&G is seeking  to avoid by requiring a 
self-employed person to cease  trading before a claim  is payable.  I think  thats reasonable. 
However, in Mrs Ls case, she is a registered partner in her husbands  business  because an 
LLP requires  at least two members, not because she works for the business. Her accountant 
has confirmed that she has never  received an income from the LLP and is only recorded as 
a partner for compliance  purposes with Companies  House. 
L&G says that as Mrs L is a registered  partner of the LLP, she had the opportunity to earn a 
salary from this. If Mrs L had begun working  for the LLP after being made redundant from 
her employed role, then her unemployment would end and no benefit would be payable from 
that time.  However, I havent seen any evidence  that Mrs L has worked for the LLP (on a 
Ref: DRN68963092paid or unpaid basis)  since  being  made  redundant. Instead, I understand  Mrs L remained  
unemployed until returning to work  (not for the LLP) on 31 December 2018.
Given Mrs Ls particular circumstances, I think it would be harsh for L&G to apply a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms to her claim.  I also note that she had a second 
unemployment policy with another insurer which had very similar policy terms to this policy, 
yet that insurer chose to accept  Mrs Ls claim,  despite the LLP not ceasing  to trade. I think it 
would be appropriate  for L&G to do the same here.
Consequently, I intend to require L&G to accept Mrs Ls claim on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
L&G responded to say that it doesnt accept my provisional decision. It says that as Mrs L 
falls under the policy definition of self-employed, that means  she isnt unemployed as per the 
terms of the policy. L&G doesnt think it was unreasonable for it to apply a strict  
interpretation of the policy terms to Mrs Ls claim. 
Mrs L responded to say she accepted  my provisional decision. She also made some 
comments about the application  process. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted L&Gs comments, however it hasnt provided any new information or arguments. 
I accept that Mrs L falls under the policy definition  of self-employed, and as the LLP hasnt 
ceased to trade, according to the policy terms she isnt unemployed. 
However, Ive explained  in my provisional  decision why I think a strict  interpretation of the 
policy terms would be unfair in Mrs Ls particular circumstances. Whilst L&G disagrees  with 
me, it hasnt  really provided  me with its reasoning  for this, other than to say that its policy 
wording is clear. I dont dispute  that, but Im required to make a decision on the matter based  
on what I think is fair and reasonable. Having done  so, I remain of the opinion that since 
Mrs L has never worked for the LLP or received  an income from it, then it would be unfair for 
L&G to apply a strict interpretation of its policy terms.  
That being  the case, I remain of the view that L&G should accept  Mrs Ls claim.  
Mrs L has made some comments about  the application process, however as the policy  was 
taken out through an intermediary, I dont think it would be appropriate to address her 
comments within this decision.  
Ref: DRN68963093my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited 
to pay the claim, subject  to the remaining policy terms and conditions.  Interest should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the payments were due to the date 
of settlement*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If L&G considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate  
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6896309