K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about a Green Deal loan provided  by MW Heating & Plumbing Limited.
Mr F says he wasnt aware he was taking out a loan. He says he was led to believe he was 
getting a new boiler  free under a government scheme. It was only later that he became 
aware he was being  charged a fee for this through his energy bills.
background 
Mr F says that in July 2015 he was cold-called  by a company  that said it was fitting free 
boilers in the area for people on certain  benefits.  Mr F received tax credits  and had young 
children at home. He says he was told he would qualify for a free boiler.
Mr F says he had had a free boiler  installed  two years earlier, qualifying for a government 
grant at that time. It was still under guarantee. The company told him he would still be able 
to have a new boiler  and this one would be more suitable for his property.
Mr F went ahead and the new boiler was installed in September 2015.  Mr F says he then 
noticed that payments were being  taken from his energy bill. He says he tried to get 
information from his energy  supplier but, having  got nowhere, he contacted the Citizens 
Advice Bureau (CAB). 
The CAB says Mr F contacted it in February  2016  about a fee he was paying to his energy 
provider. It investigated  and found that the payment was for a boiler installed by MW 
Heating. It wrote to MW Heating and obtained  a copy of the credit  agreement.
Mr F complained to MW Heating. He said he hadnt signed the credit agreement  and that the 
signature on it wasnt his. 
MW Heating didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had spoken at length to the company that 
had installed  the boiler and that Mr F had signed  the credit  agreement after having it fully 
explained to him. It said Mr F had subsequently  asked for a new boiler to be fitted at his 
fathers house. It said it was only after his father had qualified for a free boiler that Mr F had 
complained. 
Mr F then brought his complaint  to us. One of our investigators wrote to MW Heating on 10 
December 2018  explaining why she thought the complaint should  be upheld.
Briefly, she didnt think things had been  fully explained  to Mr F. She thought it unlikely hed 
been made aware he was taking out a loan. And she also had concerns about how the 
energy savings had been  calculated and explained to Mr F. This was because the 
calculations had been based on the assumption  that Mr F didnt have an existing heating 
system and that he used  electric heaters for heating  and water. She thought that on this 
basis the estimated  savings were likely to have been exaggerated.
Our investigator set out her recommendation of what  she thought MW Heating  should do to 
put things right.
MW Heating didnt agree.  It said that Mr Fs existing  boiler wasnt  working and that in these 
circumstances the Green  Deal Assessor was required  to input into the government  approved  
Ref: DRN62344642software that there was no heating system. It didnt think it was fair that it should  have  to 
bear the cost of Mr Fs new boiler.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into account the relevant law, regulations  
and best industry  practice. 
As the Green Deal provider MW Heatings role was to provide the finance  for the 
improvements being installed, manage the overall  improvement  project and meet various  
obligations set out in the Green Deal Code of Practice (CoP). 
One of its obligations was to fairly  and clearly explain the credit agreement  and the fact that 
instalments payable under the plan would be added to Mr Fs energy bill. It also had to notify 
Mr F of any savings  estimates and whether these  were likely to offset  the instalments. 
Mr F and MW Heating dont agree on what was said at the time. In this sort of situation  I 
decide, based on the information provided,  whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I dont  know whether or not Mr F signed the credit 
agreement. But if he did I think  its unlikely he knew he was taking  out a loan or that the 
details of the arrangement had been fully explained to him. 
MW Heating says that Mr Fs existing boiler was broken. That seems unlikely. Mr F has sent 
us a copy of the guarantee  in relation  to his existing boiler. This ran from 14 December 2013 
to 9 December  2015. Mr F was cold-called by the Green Deal installer in July 2015 and the 
new boiler was installed  in September 2015. 
I think If Mr Fs existing  boiler had been  broken  when the installer visited in July its more  
likely that he would  have  claimed on the guarantee, rather  than waiting  several months for a 
replacement, particularly  as he had a young  family.  
And I think its unlikely that Mr F would  knowingly have agreed to take out a loan to pay for a 
new boiler when  his existing one was relatively  new and under guarantee. He may well have  
been attracted  to having a newer boiler with a fresh warranty  if it wasnt going to cost him 
anything, particularly if the salesman told him it would be better suited to his property. But he 
was on a low income with a young family.  So I dont  think hed have wanted to take out a 
loan in these circumstances.
MW Heating says that after it had fitted Mr Fs boiler he asked it to fit one for his father too. 
MW Heating says it thinks Mr Fs complaint was prompted when he found out his father  
qualified for a free boiler. I can see why it might say that. But I think  its just as likely that Mr 
F was pleased to have  a new free boiler and wanted his father  to benefit from the same deal. 
Mr F says he tried to get information from his energy company  as soon as he noticed the 
charges on his energy bills and that he contacted the CAB when he couldnt  get a 
satisfactory explanation.  That ties in with what the CAB has told us.
Ref: DRN62344643So, on balance, I dont  think MW Heating  adequately explained to Mr F that he was taking 
out a loan or that he would need  to repay this through his energy bills. 
I also share our investigators concerns about how the estimated savings were  calculated 
and explained  to Mr F.
The Green Deal Assessor calculated  the savings on the basis that Mr F had no boiler  and 
only electric heating for power and water.
This will have  exaggerated the savings that could realistically be achieved. In this case the 
estimated savings were  said to be over £1,700 (£1,765 is shown in the credit agreement).
The Energy Savings Trust suggests that a boiler  replacement for a mid-terrace  house such  
as Mr Fs could  save between £95 and £180  a year. The actual saving would depend upon 
the efficiency  of the old boiler. Mr Fs existing boiler was only two years  old, so its arguable 
that he wouldnt even  achieve the lower savings.
In any event the way the Green  Deal Scheme  works  is that the annual  repayments shouldnt 
be more than the first years projected savings. The Green Deal Provider  has a duty to make  
sure this golden rule is satisfied and clearly  explained to the consumer.
Mr F borrowed £3,200, with an annual repayment  of around £423.  So it seems he was able 
to borrow a lot more than should have been  available to him under the scheme. And it 
doesnt seem as if the estimated golden  rule was properly and accurately explained to him.
MW Heating has said that if a boiler  wasnt working the Assessor  was required to input into 
the software that there  was no heating system.  I dont think thats  correct.  My understanding 
is that in this situation the Assessor should  still record a heating  system present (albeit not 
working). Otherwise the estimated savings will be exaggerated.  
Under clause 54 of the CoP MW Heating  was required to explain to Mr F the impact of the 
installation in terms of savings on his energy bills and any additional  cost.  If MW Heating had 
done this I think  it would have been apparent  that Mr F already had a boiler and that the 
estimated savings were  too high. 
So in addition to not adequately explaining to Mr F that he was taking out a loan I think  MW 
Heating failed  to properly explain the savings estimates  to Mr F in relation to the instalments 
to be paid.  
For these reasons I dont  think  MW Heating met its obligations under the Green Deal Code 
of Practice in this case. I dont think it acted fairly  towards Mr F and I think he lost out as a 
result.
I now have to consider  what  MW Heating should  do to put things right.
Where we uphold  a complaint our general approach is to aim to put the consumer as nearly 
as possible in the position theyd  be in if things hadnt gone wrong. 
In this case Im satisfied that if things had been  properly  explained  to Mr F he wouldnt have 
taken out the loan and wouldnt have had the new boiler fitted. It would be difficult to achieve 
that outcome  now that Mr Fs boiler has been replaced.
Ref: DRN62344644Our investigator recommended that Mr F should  be allowed to keep the new boiler  but that 
MW Heating should unwind the credit  agreement and refund any instalments already paid 
with interest.
I think thats fair.
Ive taken into account that Mr F has a newer boiler  than before and Ive considered  whether 
it would  be fair to make an allowance  for that.
But in this case I dont  think it would. Thats because Mr Fs existing boiler was relatively new 
and Im satisfied that it was in working order. So Mr F didnt need a new boiler at all. In these 
circumstances I think a fair outcome will be for MW Heating to cancel  the loan completely 
and to let Mr F keep the boiler.
Im aware that MW Heating has offered to pay Mr F £400 for the trouble and upset caused 
and I think thats  fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  MW Heating & Plumbing Ltd should:
1.Unwind the credit agreement and remove any record of Green Deal finance  from 
Mr Fs credit file 
2.Refund any instalments paid with 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the 
date of settlement.
3.Pay Mr F £400 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter  has caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6234464