K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully what Mrs B has said. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
I think Nationwide Building Society made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional,  but that 
she still chose to take it.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mrs B, as being particularly suited to 
her individual needs. This means it didnt have  to check if the PPI fitted  her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs B to decide whether it was suitable. I can see 
that a few months after the PPI started,  Mrs B wrote to Nationwide to tell them to reduce 
the benefit (and so the cost) of the PPI. So I do think she would have been  making  her 
own decision based on what  she thought she needed at the time.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  I 
dont have direct evidence that it set these out to Mrs B, although I think  it unlikely shed  
have agreed to PPI without an understanding of the main costs.  But, given the actual 
cost of the PPI compared to the overall monthly  cost of the mortgage, I dont anyway 
think full and clear information  about  the costs  and benefits  would have affected whether 
Mrs B took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide Building  Society  didnt clearly point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But its unlikely Mrs B would have been affected by any of these. Its likely 
she was eligible for the policy, and shed  be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel  it 
at any time without further cost if her situation  changed.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs B paid on her policy   and whether Nationwide  
treated her unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mrs Bs policy  was less than half of what  she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Bs commission was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell her about the commission  
Ref: DRN61950862 so I dont think  Nationwide treated her unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs B 
back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195086