K822xcomplaint
Mr H complained about a data protection breach  by Metro Bank Plc (Metro Bank)  after 
receiving a pension  scheme statement for an account that was not his.
background 
Mr H held a pension scheme bank account with Metro Bank until December 2017. 
In April 2018, he received a statement  for an account held with Metro Bank for another  
pension scheme  that had been addressed to him.
After raising the issue with Metro Bank  Mr H was asked to destroy the statement.  It 
acknowledged it had made an error by sending out statements incorrectly.
Mr H made  a formal complaint and said in addition to the statement  being sent to him, he 
had been able to access information about  the account over the phone.  He explained  his 
concerns did not just lie with the information he had received but sought  assurances his data 
had not also been shared with any third party.
Metro Bank  confirmed that Mr Hs personal  data and account  data had not been divulged  to 
a third party. It apologised for its error, explained  the matter had been  reported as a data 
breach and action  taken  to ensure the error couldnt  reoccur. It also offered £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Hs complaint. He considered the complaint about  a 
data breach couldnt be upheld. However, he recommended Mr H should accept the offer of 
£50 as fair and reasonable  compensation for the impact  Metro Banks error had on Mr H.
He said:
It was clear there had been a data protection  breach and that Metro Bank had 
acknowledged its error and reported  the breach to its own data protection officer.
However, it was not the role of this service to determine whether a firm had breached  
data protection  laws.  That was an issue for the Information Commissioners  Office  
(ICO).
Our role was to consider the impact of that breach on the consumer such  as whether 
a financial loss had been suffered. 
However, in this case it was not Mr Hs data that was the subject of the breach and 
there was no evidence hed suffered a financial loss. As it was not possible to prove 
a negative he had to take Metro Banks  word  Mr Hs data had not been sent to 
anyone else.
He noted that Metro  Bank hadnt  dealt with Mr Hs complaint particularly well, 
sending a letter on non-headed  paper and not formally acknowledging  the complaint. 
He considered Mr H had to persevere when raising the issues  to get the complaint 
escalated and wouldve  suffered  some frustration.
He concluded  that while he couldnt recommend  the complaint about the data 
protection breach was upheld by this service, he did consider  the offer of £50 was fair 
and reasonable compensation.
Mr H did not agree. He felt that the adjudicators  view considered Metro Banks errors over 
the data protection breach  and its handling of the complaint to be acceptable. He also felt his 
Ref: DRN62826632view hadnt summarised  all the points within his complaint and so he asked for an 
ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   I have looked at all the information afresh 
including listening to all the telephone  conversations between  Mr H and Metro  Bank  and Mr 
H and this service.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicators  view and for broadly the same  
reasons. I appreciate  this will come  as a disappointment to Mr H. Please allow me to explain 
why.
I understand the points Mr H has raised  with both Metro Bank and this service regarding  
what he considers being  a huge data breach and a failure to follow the regulatory rules and 
guidelines for dealing with complaints. I also appreciate his experience in financial services  
and I can understand  how this matter has led him to be concerned  about  the security  of his 
own data.
There are some aspects of his complaint that fall outside of the remit of this service. Whether 
or not a business has met the rules on complaint handling is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  I think  its important  to understand my role is not that of the 
regulator, nor am I able to fine or penalise a business. Metro Bank did issue  a final response 
letter within 8 weeks and gave  referral rights to this service and so I cant  say Metro Bank 
failed in their responsibilities in that regard.
There is no doubt that there has been  a data protection issue  but my role is not to determine 
if any data protection  laws have been breached, that is the remit of the Information  
Commissioners Office (ICO).  Having said that Metro Bank has acknowledged  a breach has 
occurred and they have confirmed this has been  reported to the ICO. So, what  I have to 
decide is the impact  of the data protection breach on Mr H and any financial loss he may 
have suffered. 
I understand Mr Hs wider concerns and I have carefully  considered the points he raised with 
the adjudicator  after he issued his view. I appreciate Mr H would have liked a response to 
each one but it isnt always necessary to comment on every aspect raised in order to reach a 
view of the merits of the case. Mr Hs concerns  regarding the account verification he 
completed with Metro bank leading to access of a third party account are noted  but the 
merits or otherwise of these points would fall within an investigation into whether any data 
protection laws have been breached, and as I said earlier this would be a matter for the ICO. 
I must deal with the aspects of the complaint that fall within my remit. In doing so there  is no 
implication for Mr H should he wish to raise any matters with other  relevant organisations?
Ive considered the impact this matter has had directly  on Mr H. From  what  Ive seen the 
data in question  was not his, that is to say, he received a letter,  which contained  transitional  
data about a third party.  There isnt any evidence  from what  Ive seen that Mr H has suffered 
a financial loss or that any of his personal data has been breached.  I accept he is unwilling 
to accept Metro Banks assurances that his personal data hasnt been shared with any third 
parties, but that doesnt mean a breach has occurred. 
Ref: DRN62826633Metro Bank  have acknowledged  that they could have  handled  things better and have 
apologised to Mr H and offered him £50 in recognition. In listening to the telephone  calls, Ive 
heard Mr H refer to this as a go away  payment  on more than one occasion. Im not 
persuaded this is a fair reflection of the offer Metro Bank has made. They  have confirmed 
the matter has been  reported to the ICO and taken steps to ensure such a processing error 
cant occur  again. They  have confirmed that Mr Hs data hasnt been shared and apologised 
that he received  a letter for a third party. They have offered £50 in recognition they could 
have done things better and on balance Im persuaded this is fair and reasonable redress  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given Im upholding this complaint in part and direct Metro Bank Plc 
to:
Pay £50 in recognition of the trouble and upset this caused Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2018.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282663