K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with their home  insurer Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of 
losses they feel theyve  incurred as a result  of its poor handling  of claim they made  when 
there was a leak from the flat next door which damaged their property.
background
The following  detail is derived from some contemporaneous emails and letters  provided  
primarily by Mr and Mrs S, along with their statements as to the history of what  occurred. 
Whilst Aviva  has provided some of the same letters, its complaint activity  file and one 
summary email from its loss adjuster dated December 2018, despite  repeated  requests and 
time extensions Aviva  hasnt provided us with any records or evidence from the time of the 
claim to show  what happened and what it did.
Aviva provides the buildings  insurance for the block  of flats Mr and Mrs S lived in in 2016. In 
October 2016 there was a leak from the flat next to Mr and Mrs Ss home. Aviva was 
contacted and a claim  accepted. The loss adjuster at the time told Mr and Mrs S to have two 
contractors estimate for repairs,  the estimates  would be assessed and payment made.
Mr and Mrs S thought Aviva should  be assessing  the damage.  The loss adjuster  refused to 
be more involved.
In December 2016 the loss adjuster assessed the estimate provided  by Mr and Mrs S. The 
adjuster re-visited the property as part of that process and noted that Mr and Mrs Ss flat had 
been dried. The adjuster authorised Mr and Mrs S to proceed with reinstating  their flat.
But payment  for the work wasnt released  to Mr and Mrs S until March 2017. Reinstatement  
was completed by June  2017.
In late June 2017 Mr and Mrs S started to notice damage occurring to their flooring, like that 
theyd noticed  in October 2016 when the leak had occurred. They got in touch with their 
contractors and they determined that the flat next door was still wet, that it had likely never  
been dried, but that the drying activity in Mr and Mrs Ss flat had, for a time, had a residual 
effect next door (the flats sit on a shared concrete slab). The contractors advised that once 
drying stopped  in Mr and Mrs Ss home, over time, the damp that had remained in the slab in 
the flat next door, had migrated to Mr and Mrs Ss home, causing further damage.
Mr and Mrs S got in touch  with Avivas loss adjusting company (the individual that had dealt 
with the initial claim  having left). The loss adjuster agreed investigations were required and 
eventually accepted that the flat next door hadnt  been dried properly  and this had allowed 
the further damage to occur. The adjuster felt Mr and Mrs Ss contractors were responsible 
for this though,  that they should have checked moisture levels  in the flat next door prior to 
commencing reinstatement  works.  Nevertheless Aviva agreed  to ensure the flat next door 
was dry before  re-drying  Mr and Mrs Ss flat and reinstating it, this time using its own 
contractors. Mr and Mrs S were pleased with this, but wanted  to know  what  timescale they 
were looking  at as they were preparing to let their home out to tenants.
In August  2017  Mr and Mrs S had obtained  a valuation from a letting agent and confirmation 
that it would  expect their flat to rent within four weeks of going on the market. In September 
and October 2017,  whilst the loss adjuster was reviewing the situation regarding  the further  
damage it had recently been informed about, Mr and Mrs S notified the adjuster that they 
intended to move out of their home by the end of the year.  They also,  in November 2017, 
obtained a buy-to-let mortgage  offer. The loss adjuster only re-attended the property in 
Ref: DRN65238442December 2017,  three  days  after Mr and Mrs S had moved out.
Aviva subsequently appointed drying  contractors.  In February 2018  the loss adjuster wrote 
to Mr and Mrs S and said the drying  and reinstatement scheme for the property was under 
review, but getting  their property reinstated was a priority. In April 2018 Aviva issued a final 
response to Mr and Mrs S. It offered them £1,000 compensation for the upset it accepted it 
had caused to date and noted that a repair schedule was in place (which  would  now allow 
their flat to be reinstated).
Mr and Mrs S noted the offer Aviva  had made  but didnt think it made up for all their financial 
losses incurred  primarily lost rent and the opportunity to pay a far reduced  mortgage rate 
(based on the buy-to-let  offer theyd  received against the rate of their residential mortgage). 
They also notified  Aviva  that they believed it was currently not possible for them to 
reasonably progress with reinstatement  works in their flat as they believed next door was still 
wet. Aviva said it wouldnt consider  matters  any further as it had given its final response.
However, in May 2018, around the time Mr and Mrs S complained to us, the loss adjuster  
emailed Mr and Mrs S. He said whilst it had been  told by the drying contractor that next door 
was dry, he had now had contact from the letting agent for that property and the agent had 
advised that there was still an issue of damp. The adjuster said theyd revert  to the drying  
contractors but that work in Mr and Mrs Ss flat would  have to be put on hold.
In December 2018 the loss adjuster told us that reinstatement of Mr and Mrs Ss home  was 
nearly complete,  with only some decorating being outstanding. However, in April 2019
Mr and Mrs S told us work hadnt  yet completed. They later explained that whilst they were 
told work was finished in late December, when they checked the work in January 2019,  it 
wasnt up to standard.  Avivas contractor had begun resolving that and the outstanding work 
was finished during June  with Mr and Mrs S signing it off on 4 July 2019. They were 
unhappy about how long it had been  since the original claim. Aviva didnt offer any further 
comment, explanation or final response on what had happened since  its response issued in 
April 2018.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.  He said hed only look at issues up 
until Avivas response in April 2018. He noted  that Mr and Mrs S had told us they only 
wished to pursue  matters  regarding their financial loss. In that respect he felt Aviva had paid 
in good faith for the initial repair so it couldnt reasonably be held liable for the further 
damage which had occurred. But he also noted  Mr and Mrs S hadnt had a tenant in place, 
that the policy didnt offer cover for lost rent and where such  cover is offered, it normally 
requires the property to be uninhabitable (which Mr and Mrs Ss flat wasnt). He felt it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to make  Aviva compensate Mr and Mrs S for the rental  
income they felt theyd  lost out on.
Aviva made no comment. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy. They  said their losses in respect of 
the mortgage rate hadnt been considered  this wasnt just about  lost rent. Regarding lost 
rent, whilst they hadnt had a tenant in place  that was because of the major  work that was 
needed. They had evidenced a tenant  would likely have  been found within four weeks. They  
didnt let the flat following completion  of the works  in July 2019 due to personal 
circumstances but were about to move ahead with that in February 2020.
The complaint was passed  to me to decide.  As mentioned above, Aviva  was asked to 
provide further  information to show me what had happened during this claim.  It was given a 
significant period  of time to allow it to do so  but nothing  was provided for me to consider. 
Ref: DRN65238443So I issued a provisional decision based  on the details  I had. Following that I issued some 
further findings in order to set an exact amount for Aviva to pay in recompense. The parties  
have responded  and Im now issuing my final findings, set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My initial provisional findings were:
From the little Ive seen I think Aviva failed  Mr and Mrs S here. It should have managed  the 
early claim better  not just asked Mr and Mrs S to provide estimates. Whilst the damage 
and failure to dry occurred in the flat next door to Mr and Mrs Ss, this wasnt a case of 
third-party damage occurring which Aviva  had no control over or ability to investigate, 
because Aviva was the insurer  for the whole  block. In contrast Mr and Mrs Ss contractor 
was only working for them  it had no ability to make enquiries  next door and, reasonably,  
I think, it gave little thought to what was happening  next door  as the loss adjuster  should 
have been doing that.
That being  said Aviva  did accept liability for the further damage and have it fixed. Whilst that 
did take an inordinate amount of time, Avivas acceptance did at least mitigate that part of 
the situation for Mr and Mrs S (they didnt have to get it fixed themselves,  for example).
However, the further damage and need  for further  repair did prevent Mr and Mrs S from 
using the property as intended  post December 2017. I find the evidence Mr and Mrs S have  
provided regarding  letting the flat and arranging another  mortgage  at a lower  rate, is 
compelling. Im satisfied that, but for the further damage that had resulted from Avivas 
failure, they would  have  changed their mortgage  arrangement and let the flat. So any losses 
as a result  of them not being able to do that, should fall squarely at Avivas door.
I have to consider  then when they might  likely  have  been able to take that action. Whilst the 
initial repairs  completed in June 2017 that was clearly without the property next door being 
dried. It can be difficult to get cooperation from other parties, but as I say Aviva was the 
insurer for the block and I can see that the landlord  was communicating with Aviva in 
September/October 2017 when the further damage became apparent. I also note that
Mr and Mrs Ss contractors were able to gain entry to the flat next door when the further 
damage was found as well.
Clearly, as further damp was found in May 2018,  drying the property next door wasnt a 
straight-forward prospect.  But I bear in mind that Aviva seems  to have caused delays even 
during this second process  it didnt  re-visit until December 2017 and by mid-February  2018  
a drying scheme  still hadnt been  implemented.  It seems both properties were  then felt to be 
dry sometime after that and before April 2018   but that seems  quite  quick  given my usual 
experience of drying concrete floor slabs.
Conservatively, I think that if Aviva had handled  this properly at the outset, both properties 
could have been dried with Mr and Mrs Ss property then being  reinstated,  easily  within 
nine- months.  Ive been generous with my timeframe  to allow  for unforeseen issues  that 
might have arisen with drying the property  next door, or getting  some cooperation from the 
landlord. But even  then, a nine-month repair period would have allowed Mr and Mrs S to 
make their letting arrangements, market the flat and have a tenant in place to move in
Ref: DRN65238444shortly after they left just before Christmas 2017. Allowing for the fact that many people dont 
want to move over Christmas. I think its likely any tenancy would have begun  from
1 January 2018. For ease Ill apply that date to the change  in mortgage rate too.
Mr and Mrs S have  provided us with calculations and evidence  of mortgages  rates,  as well 
as the letting valuation. Ill share these with Aviva. It will then have  to make a payment to 
Mr and Mrs S to reimburse their losses, based  on the fact the property would likely have 
been let in line with the letting valuation, and the mortgage would have changed  as per the 
offer, from 1 January 2018. To any monthly  rental  amount  they would have received, Aviva 
will have to add interest*  on that amount from the first day of the month in which it should 
have been received until settlement is made. For every mortgage overpayment  that has 
been made, Aviva will have to add interest to the amount it reimburses from the date
Mr and Mrs S paid the extra amount until settlement is made.
But Im not going  to say this has to be paid by Aviva until the flat is re-let. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs S faced  some personal difficulties  in July 2019.  But Im mindful that as repairs 
came close  to completion in April and May 2019  they could have looked at getting  the flat on 
the market. If they had, according to the letting valuation Ive relied  on here, it would have  
been let with a tenant ready  to move in once repairs completed in June 2019.  I think  that 
would have been reasonable action for Mr and Mrs S to take in order to mitigate  their losses  
that, admittedly,  began being incurred as a result of Avivas failings. So I see Avivas fair and 
reasonable liability for their losses as being limited to the period 1 January 2018 to
30 June 2019.  This is the period over which it will have to reimburse  their losses (with 
interest* on each amount  being paid until settlement is made).
For its failings up until April 2018,  Aviva  paid Mr and Mrs S £1,000.  Clearly  the reinstatement  
of their property still took a long time to resolve after this point. I cant  see any good reason  
why it took so long.  And Im mindful  that it all would have been  avoided in any event, if Aviva 
hadnt failed them at the outset. Looking at everything I think Aviva  should  pay Mr and Mrs S 
a total of £2,000 compensation (so a further  £1,000).
Aviva may wonder why Ive looked  at activity beyond its April 2018 final response.  But Ive 
included that here because  its clear  to me that Mr and Mrs S were  still unhappy  with 
everything and whilst theyd tried to tell Aviva this, Aviva wasnt prepared to make any further 
comment because,  it said, it had issued a final response. If Aviva wishes to provide any 
comment or evidence on what happened  after its final response  was issued in 2018,  it can 
do so in response to this provisional decision and Ill consider it. But I bear in mind that my 
various requests  for information, and extended deadlines granted for that to be provided, 
made prior to this provisional decision being issued didnt result  in anything  being  provided.
So, if Aviva should  ask for time to provide  evidence,  I likely wont  be prepared to extend the 
response period  set at the start of this letter. Of course, Mr and Mrs S will be able to provide 
any comment or information they wish to as well.
Mr and Mrs S seemed pleased by my decision  but asked how the settlement over the 
whole period would be calculated. They noted  there  was council tax to think about as well 
and that the previously offered £1,000 compensation had never  been  paid to them. They  
said they accepted that the choices they made in summer 2019  took any loss they suffered 
after the end of June 2019  out of Avivas  hands.
Aviva didnt challenge my decision and asked  to see the evidence  of the financial loss Id 
said Mr and Mrs S had suffered. It agreed that reimbursement of council tax paid could fairly 
Ref: DRN65238445be included  within the settlement to be paid to Mr and Mrs S. But Aviva  didnt  initially state 
what that might be. Mindful of the protracted  history  of this claim and complaint I felt that 
I needed to make a decision on what a fair and reasonable  settlement would be so I could 
award that to Mr and Mrs S, bringing  the situation  for them  and Aviva to a clear end. 
I sent the following interim  findings to both parties:
I told both parties in my provisional  decision in March that I intended to make Aviva  
compensate Mr and Mrs S for their losses incurred during 1 January 2018   30 June  2019  
(18 Months).  Aviva  has since been  considering  what it should pay based on evidence  about 
what losses have been suffered and a calculation of loss for the period 1 January 2018  
30 April 2018 (4 months). To date Aviva  hasnt returned with any suggested settlement. 
Therefore, Ive looked at what I think Aviva should  pay.
The four-month period  of loss calculation equates to £10,872.05. It includes council tax. 
Aviva has agreed it should  cover  the cost of council tax. I dont see why any of the costs that 
go to make up this sum shouldnt be paid by Aviva. But I need to look at what  the loss is over 
the period Ive said Aviva was liable. 
Breaking the above figure down to a monthly  cost gives a sum of £2,718.01. The period 
I said Aviva  was liable for was 18 months. Multiplying the monthly amount by 18 gives a total 
for Aviva to pay of £48,924.22.
Finally, as per my provisional finding  there is some interest for Aviva  to pay on some of the 
sums that make up this figure  too. I explained  provisionally:
To any monthly rental amount they would have received, Aviva will have to add interest* on 
that amount  from the first day of the month in which it should have been received until 
settlement is made. For every mortgage  overpayment that has been made, Aviva will have 
to add interest to the amount it reimburses from the date Mr and Mrs S paid the extra 
amount until settlement is made.
If my view remains the same once the parties have had chance to respond, this finding and 
award will become part of my final decision.
In reply Mr and Mrs S provided some further  calculations. These  included  proof that the 
council tax sum due had fluctuated in 2018  and 2019. They  said that before  adding interest 
their total loss over the period was £63,104.57. Details were provided  to Aviva and it 
responded explaining  that its total, even allowing for the exact increases in council tax, only 
came to just under  that amount once the total compensation  and interest awards were 
added in. 
Ref: DRN65238446I asked why Mr and Mrs Ss current calculation was so different to the amount I had 
suggested. Although  Id have expected  some variance between a pro-rated,  averaged  figure, 
such that I had created,  and one which has been  calculated using exact,  specific amounts, 
I felt that a difference of around £15,000  would be unlikely  to be accounted for in that way. 
Mr and Mrs S explained that in their new figure  they had factored in the total cost of the 
mortgage payments  theyd made,  but without taking into account what  they would have paid 
for the buy-to-let mortgage. Further their initial figures which Id based my suggested 
settlement amount on looked at the difference in interest that would have been charged, 
rather than any difference  in the monthly repayment  amounts. Aviva  confirmed that its 
calculated value for settlement, without interest or compensation  being  added,  was 
£49,008.43.
Following the responses, the further  correspondence and the subsequent  replies,  I note that 
neither party  objected to the findings  I made provisionally, including  what  Id said was, in my 
view, the extent of Avivas  liability for the financial loss Mr and Mrs S had incurred. So Ive no 
need to change or move away from those findings, except the in the one small respect  
reflected in the interim  findings I made  and which was highlighted by Mr and Mrs S in putting 
forward an alternative settlement value.
Their figure,  and the reason they gave for it, caused me to review  the evidence  and 
comments initially provided,  and which Id used to calculate the suggested settlement value 
for Aviva to pay. I see now that my calculations were based on a difference  in likely incurred 
interest between the two mortgages, rather than any monthly outlay that was or, but for 
Avivas failings, would have been  paid.  So my interim findings were, on the face of it, at odds 
with the initial provisional decision I issued. I apologise to the parties  for any confusion  
caused by this. 
But I remain  of the view that my suggested  award  set out in my interim findings, and as 
increased slightly by Aviva to £49,008.43, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. It 
reflects the fact that Mr and Mrs S have paid more to the bank in interest during the period in 
question than they otherwise would have done under the revised mortgage offer they 
obtained in November 2017.  It takes into account the council  tax theyve paid and the rent 
they would  have earned but didnt. It is based  on a largely averaged figure, and an 
accountant might be able to generate a more  mathematically correct  sum. But my focus here 
is on deciding what is fair and reasonable, not what  is mathematically correct. I think  the 
amount put forward by Aviva, following  my suggested settlement figure, which  were  both 
based on sums and evidence  put forward by Mr and Mrs S to initially show what they felt 
their loss was, is fair and reasonable recompense for their loss incurred as a result of Avivas 
failings during their claim. Aviva will have to add intertest* to this sum as directed, but 
including council tax payments, and in respect  of the mortgage that is still for each 
overpayment of interest  they made. 
Aviva will also have to pay Mr and Mrs S £2,000  compensation. That is because it confirmed 
that its initially offered  sum of £1,000 was never paid. I remain of the view that £2,000 total 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Avivas failings caused Mr and Mrs S is fair 
and reasonable.  
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S:
Ref: DRN65238447£49,008.43 to make up for their lost rent, different mortgage interest rate and council tax 
paid, plus interest*  on each amount  paid or lost which makes up this sum from the date it 
was paid, or should have been  received but wasnt,  until settlement is made.  
£2,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Aviva  Insurance  
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs S, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs S a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6523844