K820x#14complaint
The personal representatives of the late Mr Js estate complain about Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited  (Aviva). They  have concerns about how Aviva has settled Mr Js annuity policy 
now hes passed away.
background
The personal representatives of Mr Js estate are the late Mr Js partner who Ill refer to as 
Ms J and his daughter  who Ill refer to as Mrs C. For simplicity Ill primarily be referring  to 
Ms J.
In September  2016 Mr J took retirement benefits  from his Section 32 policy and purchased  a 
Lifetime Annuity.  Mr Js annuity  policy was set up and started on 1 October 2016.
In December 2018 Mr J very sadly passed away. Ms J contacted Aviva to make it aware of 
this.
Aviva later wrote to Ms J. In summary  it:
explained Mr Js annuity  policy had a minimum guarantee  period  of five years  and so 
his annuity would continue to be paid to the legal  representatives  of his estate until 
the expiry of the guarantee period
confirmed Mr Js annuity policy included  the provision of a spouses annuity   which  
was payable to Mr Js widow with effect  from 1 January 2018
said it required the return of completed  claim forms  along  with original death and 
marriage/civil partnership certificates to administer the proceeds of Mr Js annuity 
policy
Ms J completed and returned Avivas claim forms and provided  Mr Js death certificate. 
Aviva confirmed receipt of the documentation  Ms J sent and later wrote to her. In summary it 
said:
it couldnt proceed with settling Mr Js annuity  policy as it still required a copy  of Mr 
Js Will and its estate questionnaire  to be completed
it needed further information as the remaining guarantee period for Mr Js annuity 
was only due to his estate. When it originally sent Ms J claim forms it had incorrectly 
believed Ms J was Mr Js spouse  so it hadnt made the relevant requests at the time
it apologised for any inconvenience caused
it confirmed that once it received its requirements itd be happy to proceed  with the 
claim 
Unhappy with the level of service shed  received Ms J contacted  Aviva to complain. Aviva 
apologised and at Ms Js request agreed  to look into whether the spouse annuity available  
under Mr Js annuity policy could be paid to Ms J on the basis  of financial dependency.  
Aviva later responded  to Ms Js query about the spouse annuity and confirmed this wasnt  
something it could pay out to her as it was only payable to a wife, husband or civil partner. 
Aviva followed  up its response to Ms J in writing and in summary said:
Mr Js policy was a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP), and under rules applicable 
to GMP policies it was mandatory a 50% spouse pension  was provided 
Ref: DRN64714282the spouse pension could only be paid to a married spouse  and as it wasnt possible 
to reallocate this to an unmarried  partner it couldnt pay Ms J the spouse pension  
Mr Js annuity payments would continue to be paid to Mr Js estate for what  remained 
of the guarantee period until it expired
Following this Ms J wrote  to Aviva and provided copies of the original documentation Mr J 
had been provided with when his annuity  policy was set up. She said the documentation  
clearly stated a named  person could receive  the 50% spouse pension available  under Mr Js 
annuity policy. Ms J asked Aviva to confirm she would receive this after the 5 year guarantee 
period for Mr Js annuity policy  expired.
Aviva responded to Ms J and in summary said:
the schedule  for Mr Js annuity showed  there was no named person on it to receive 
the spouse pension
the annuity policy terms and conditions confirmed the annuity  would only be payable 
to a named person if they had appeared in the schedule
Mr Js annuity arose  from GMP benefits and the rules didnt allow  a spouse pension 
to be paid to anyone other than a husband,  wife or civil partner at the time of death.  
This was confirmed in Mr Js annuity  schedule
the annuity forms it issued were  generic  to cover all types of pensions,  including  
those that could offer a benefit  to a named individual. Although Mr J completed Ms 
Js details on the annuity set up documents,  it was clear from the schedule  issued  
that Mr Js annuity  only provided  for a dependants pension  for a spouse or civil 
partner
as Ms J had the same  surname as Mr J it may have been assumed at the time that 
Ms J was Mr Js wife. But at retirement this wouldnt have been relevant for a 
dependants pension  because its only payable to the spouse or civil partner at the 
time of the policy holders  death and a marriage certificate would have  been  
requested as a proof of this
Unhappy with Avivas  response Ms J referred her concerns to our service. As Aviva  hadnt 
issued its final response on the matter  the complaint was referred back to it for 
consideration.
Aviva later provided its final response  to Ms J and in summary said:
it understood it would  be upsetting for Ms J to discover she wouldnt be receiving an 
income for the rest of her life from it as shed hoped
it had already explained why it couldnt  pay Ms J the spouse  pension under Mr Js 
annuity policy
it understood Ms J felt its terms and conditions indicated it would be able to pay her 
as a named person but this was incorrect
Mr J completed  forms for his annuity  policy on 21 September  2016. Next to the 
section for Your husband, wife or civil partners name, Mr J wrote [Ms Js full name]  
and this is why Aviva assumed Ms J and Mr J were  married
it accepted  the terms and conditions mentioned  the possibility of payments going  to a 
named person. But they did also say this only applied if the schedule said so. Mr Js 
annuity schedule  didnt. It only said Aviva would pay a spouse pension to a husband, 
wife or a civil partner
Ref: DRN64714283the terms and conditions needed to cover a wide range of options but the named 
person option  didnt  apply to Mr Js pension
Ms J was able to benefit  from the guarantee period  the policy had, but payments 
would end once  this expired
it was sorry it couldnt  pay Ms J the income  shed expected
Ms J remained dissatisfied with Avivas response so our investigator considered the matter.  
Our investigator said Mr Js annuity schedule  showed  his annuity policy provided for a 
spouses pension  after his death. But as Ms J wasnt married to Mr J she wasnt entitled  to 
this benefit. Our investigator concluded he didnt  think  Aviva had done anything  wrong.
Ms J disagreed with our investigator  and in summary she said:
she didnt think Aviva had taken into account all documentation relevant to the setting 
up of Mr Js annuity policy  when  it considered  her complaint
the policy documentation said the named person would receive the spouses  
pension. Mr J had provided Ms Js details as the named person so she was entitled  
to a pension under  Mr Js annuity policy
Mr J never indicated  that Ms J was his spouse  or that he was married and completed  
the relevant documentation in good faith.  Aviva shouldve requested a marriage 
certificate when Mr Js policy  was originally set up
Mr Js schedule didnt reflect the GMP so Avivas claim this was only payable  to a 
spouse or civil partner  was irrelevant
Aviva  hadnt considered compensation for the significant distress  caused by its 
mistake
Our investigator considered what Ms J said but said his view remained the same. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made  by both parties, I 
have limited my response to what I consider to be the issue  central to this complaint. That is 
to say:
whether Aviva has correctly settled  benefits  under the late Mr Js annuity  policy
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Ms J and Mrs C. Its clear to me this will have 
been a difficult  time.  Not only as a result of Mr J- Ms Js partner and Mrs Cs father, very 
sadly passing away but also from the time and energy  that has been put into dealing  with 
Aviva, trying  to make sense of Mr Js annuity  policy as well as efforts to establish the basis  
of any further entitlement under this.
I understand Ms J has genuine concerns Aviva has made a mistake regarding  the spouse 
pension available  under  Mr Js annuity policy and that she considers  shes  entitled to this. 
But having  carefully reviewed the matter I havent  seen  anything which persuades  me that 
Aviva has made an error in the way Ms J suggests.
Ref: DRN64714284Mr Js annuity policy was set up from the proceeds  of his Section 32 Policy. Under Mr Js 
Section 32 policy  Aviva  was legally  required  to pay him a GMP at age 65. There was also an 
entitlement to a 50% spouse pension benefit in the event of Mr Js death. Specifically Mr Js 
original policy documentation said:
Spouses pension:  50% of the annuity payable to the annuitant ()
Surviving spouse  means the person to whom the annuitant was married  at the date of his 
death.
Mr J was only entitled to benefits as set out in his original policy documentation. And as per 
Mr Js Section 32 policy, an annuity  would be payable in the event of Mr Js death  to his 
spouse, the definition of which is clearly  outlined.
At the time Mr J purchased his annuity policy using the proceeds of his Section 32 Policy he 
received documentation which provided details of the annuity, including  the terms and 
conditions under which the policy operated. Ive reviewed Mr Js annuity policy terms and 
conditions and note they state  the following:
3. What happens to the policy when you die ()
3.1.1 if there  is a guarantee () your pension is guaranteed to be paid for this period.
3.1.2 If you die during the guarantee  period,  we will continue to pay your pension until that 
guarantee period ends. If condition 3.2 applies,  we will pay your pension  to that person. 
Otherwise we will pay it to your legal personal representatives ()
3.2 If there is a pension  for your husband,  wife, civil partner or named person
3.2.1 Where your schedule shows a pension for your husband, wife or civil partner or a 
named person that pension will start from the date described in your schedule. It will 
continue until the payment  due date before that person  dies.
Mr Js Section 32 policy conditions and later his annuity policy conditions and annuity 
schedule confirmed the following:
Mr Js annuity policy provided  for a 50% spouse benefit when Mr J passed away
the spouse benefit was only payable to Mr Js spouse or civil partner
Mr Js annuity had a five year guarantee period 
Mr Js annuity schedule outlined  who could be entitled to a pension under Mr Js 
annuity policy
I note Ms Js point that Mr Js annuity policy terms and conditions say a pension can be paid 
to a named person. But this doesnt mean  Ms Js entitled to the spouse pension  under Mr Js 
annuity policy. 
Ms J wasnt  married to Mr J at the time he passed  away. And so as Mr Js partner, Ms J 
didnt meet the requirement that she be Mr Js spouse as per the terms of Mr Js original 
Section 32 policy. 
Mr Js annuity policy terms and conditions  were also clear that Mr Js annuity  policy  schedule 
was the document which made  the general terms of the policy  personal  to Mr J. Mr Js 
Ref: DRN64714285annuity policy schedule  confirmed that when  Mr J passed away  an annuity would be payable  
to your husband, wife or civil partner. There is no reference to a named person or Ms J.
So based  on the type of pension policy Mr J had and what his annuity  schedule later 
confirmed Im unable  to conclude Aviva  has made  an error in saying  Ms J isnt entitled to the 
spouses pension  under Mr Js annuity  policy.
I understand based on Avivas annuity  terms and conditions  why Ms J may have been under 
the impression  that being a named person would  be a sufficient  basis on which  receive the 
spouse pension  under Mr Js annuity  policy. However as has already been explained this 
wasnt relevant to Mr Js policy. Mr Js original policy didnt allow for the spouse  annuity to be 
paid to anyone  other  than a qualifying spouse.
Its not uncommon for policy  documentation and in particular terms and conditions  to cover 
more than one set of circumstances. And has already been explained, some of the forms a 
provider like Aviva  issues will be generic  to cover all of its pension  products, including  those 
that could offer a benefit to a named individual. 
From the paperwork Mr J completed at the time he purchased his annuity policy it seems he 
may have  incorrectly been under the impression he could list Ms J as named person to 
receive the spouse pension under his policy when he passed away. I say this because on 
the annuity payment form Mr J completed in 2016  it said:
If a pension  for your husband, wife or civil partner is to be paid, please advise their full 
name, date of birth and national insurance number  below.  ().
And Mr J provided Ms Js details  in the box for your husband, wife or civil partners  details. 
He also referred to Ms J as Mrs.  
As Ms J and Mr J also share the same surname  I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for Aviva to 
originally be under the impression Mr and Ms J were married.
Ms J has said Aviva  ought to have  sought confirmation of Mr Js marital status at the time he 
took out his annuity to ensure the form had been  completed correctly. I understand the point 
Ms J is making here but Im afraid what shes suggested isnt something I wouldnt have 
expected Aviva to do at the time. Entitlement  to a spouse pension  under an annuity  policy  is 
something that would  only be established  upon a policy holders death. And not when the 
policy was originally taken  out.
Even if Mr J confirmed  to Aviva at the time he took out his annuity policy  that he wasnt  
married and Ms J was his partner, the spouse  pension benefit under his annuity policy would  
still have remained.  And in the event Mr J had subsequently married Ms J or someone else,  
as Mr Js spouse they wouldve had an entitlement to the spouse pension  provided for under 
his annuity policy.  
Im not persuaded this is unreasonable where a spouse pension is on a non-nominated 
basis (in other words  where the spouse  is not named) because  it allows for the possibility 
that whilst  the applicant may be unmarried at the time of the policy application, that may not 
be the case at death.  
Im mindful that prior to the purchase  of his annuity  policy, Mr J was encouraged to seek  
financial advice. Indeed the original  documentation  said:
Ref: DRN64714286If you have  not taken  guidance from the guidance service or a financial adviser, then we 
strongly recommend  you do so before  returning  this form to us.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr J sought advice regarding the purchase of his annuity 
policy. Because of this it wouldve been Mr Js responsibility to ensure he fully understood 
the annuity policy he was applying for. 
As Mr J confirmed  he was purchasing an annuity policy  under  which  a spouse  pension was 
provided and that he hadnt sought advice regarding  the matter, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to process Mr Js annuity on the basis  Mr J requested. Mr J was also 
provided with a cancellation notice  if he wasnt happy with the annuity selections  hed made. 
However theres no indication he acted on this.
I sympathise with Ms J in that she unfortunately expected  the spouse annuity  to be paid to 
her after Mr Js death. But as Mr J completed  forms to include a spouse  pension but 
remained unmarried,  under  the terms of the annuity  he selected, payments must cease after 
the expiry of the guarantee period in accordance with the contractual  obligation entered into 
by him. 
In the circumstances set out above,  I am not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to 
compel Aviva to set aside  the terms and conditions  of the late Mr Js annuity policy and 
compel it to pay any non-contracted benefits  to Ms J.
I understand that this situation  is difficult and highly emotive but I dont think that Aviva  has 
done anything  wrong in how it has distributed the benefits from the late Mr Js annuity policy.  
Im aware Ms J considers compensation should  be paid by Aviva  for the distress she feels it 
has caused regarding  this matter. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  that such a 
payment would be appropriate  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6471428