K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that The Society of Lloyds (SoL)  didnt  pay any benefit for a claim made 
under his unemployment cover.
background
Mr W held unemployment cover. The aim of the cover was to pay benefit, after a waiting 
period of 30 days, in the event of unemployment.
In 2017, Mr W was made unemployed after his employer became insolvent. He therefore  
made a claim under  the policy.  SoL thought Mr W had received payment in lieu of notice for 
six weeks after his employment  ended.  It said that under the policy terms, his 30 day waiting 
period would only start after his payment in lieu of notice had ended.  As Mr W had started  a 
new job before the end of the 30 day waiting period, that meant  there was no benefit 
payable. 
Mr W didnt agree that hed received a payment in lieu of notice, as the payment hed 
received was less than his income would  have been over the same period. He brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision on 2 July 2019. My findings were:
The policy  terms say:
If you are receiving payment in lieu of notice,  your waiting period will not begin until 
after your payment in lieu of notice has ended and you have a Jobseekers 
Agreement.
Payment in lieu of notice is defined in the policy as:
Any payment you receive that relates to the notice period you should have served 
under your contract of employment.  If you were contracted to have a lieu of notice 
period but this was renegotiated in a compromise  agreement, we will use the period  
of notice you should have served  as stated in your contract of employment.
Mr W became  unemployed  on 2 October 2017. As his former employer had become 
insolvent, he applied  for and received compensation for loss of notice by the Redundancy 
Payments Service (RPS). 
The RPS said that Mr W was entitled to compensation  for loss of notice, and that his notice 
period ran from 2 October 2017  to 13 November 2017. This six week  notice period differs 
from the notice period  under Mr Ws employment  contract (which was three  months), as its 
a period set by the RPS and is based  on age and length of service.  
The information from the RPS said that over the six week notice period, Mr W was entitled  to 
£13,110.24 after tax and other deductions. However, due to a weekly monetary cap of £489,  
he could only receive £2,934.
I appreciate the policy says that payment in lieu of notice is any payment received that 
relates to the notice  period Mr W should  have  served under his contract of employment.  
Strictly speaking that means Mr W didnt have to receive his full pay for the relevant period. 
Ref: DRN62058442However, I dont think it would be fair for SoL to strictly apply the policy terms here. Ill 
explain why.
The reason  the payment in lieu of notice term exists, is to ensure a claimant  isnt better off 
than when they were  working. 
Mr W was entitled to six weeks payment in lieu of notice from the RPS. This would have 
been his basic  salary for the six weeks, however he couldnt receive that figure because of 
the monetary  cap applied by the RPS.
If Mr W hadnt received any compensation from the RPS, then he would  have been  able to 
claim benefit under the policy. Mr W has therefore  been placed at a disadvantage through  
his compensation  claim with RPS. Thats because he hasnt  been  able to claim any benefit  
under the policy  for the six week period, but also didnt receive his basic  salary for those six 
weeks. That seems unfair, particularly given that the RPS is a government  benefit  designed 
to help people  in Mr Ws situation.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be for SoL to start the 30 day waiting  period  
from the day Mr W became unemployed, and pay benefit in line with the remaining policy 
terms. However, it should deduct the payment Mr W received from the RPS from the benefit 
payment, so that he doesnt receive  a double payment.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they wanted  me to consider. 
SoL said that because  Mr W did get a payment  from the RPS, this ought to be recognised.  It 
therefore thought a fairer  way of working out benefit would be to take the RPS payment and 
convert this to the number of days (based on Mr Ws gross salary) for which he received  
payment in lieu of notice.  It calculates  this to be 11 days. It says that would mean Mr W 
would still qualify for one months benefit payment plus a pro-rata payment  for 21 days 
(£3,400), rather than two months  benefit and a pro-rata payment for two days  (£4,133.33). 
Mr W accepted my provisional decision, though  he made the point that SoLs decision not to 
accept his claim made an extremely stressful period worse than it needed to be.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered SoLs suggestion for working  out benefit. However, I dont think SoL has 
taken into consideration that I said it could deduct the £2,934 payment that Mr W received 
from the RPS from its benefit  calculation. I therefore have recognised  that Mr W received  a 
payment from the RPS,  and have accepted that this should be taken into account so that 
Mr W doesnt receive a double payment. 
I therefore remain satisfied that it would be fair for SoL to start the 30 day waiting period from 
the day Mr W became unemployed, and pay benefit accordingly - though it should deduct 
the payment Mr W received from the RPS from the benefit settlement figure. 
Mr W says that SoLs decision not to accept his claim had a negative impact, as it made an 
extremely stressful time worse than it needed  to be. I can understand that, however as Ive 
Ref: DRN62058443mentioned, under the policy terms SoL was entitled  not to pay benefit. Ive therefore  not 
awarded Mr W any additional compensation for trouble and/or upset because Ive found that 
his claim should be settled on a fair and reasonable basis.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Society of Lloyds to start the 
30 day waiting period from the day Mr W became unemployed.  It should pay benefit  in line 
with the remaining policy terms,  but is entitled  to deduct the payment Mr W received from the 
RPS. Interest should be added to the benefit payment at a rate of 8% simple interest from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If SoL considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6205844