K822xcomplaint
Mr F has complained following a claim he made to Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background 
In January 2018 Mr F was approached by a company  called The Mikhno Group  Ltd 
(Mikhno) who sold him a solar panel system  and arranged  a 10-year loan for £7,500 with 
Ikano to pay for the system.
The monthly loan repayment was £82 per month and Mr F says he was told that in addition 
to free electricity, hed also receive  a government grant of £45 per month.  After the 
installation Mr F soon  realised that he wasnt receiving free electricity or any government 
grant.
Section 75 of the CCA states a finance provider can be liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, and to the same extent  as the supplier of the goods or services 
Section 56 of the CCA sets out that a finance  provider is liable for what it says, and what  is 
said by the credit broker or supplier before a consumer takes out the credit agreement.   
Mr F made a claim to Ikano under  the CCA, but it said the contract  didnt mention any 
government grant and it didnt believe the solar panel system had been  mis-sold. So, Mr F 
then referred his complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and recommended it be upheld.   In 
summary, she concluded the government grant  Mr F was referring to was in fact the Feed-
In-Tariff (FIT) payments  available as part of a government incentive.  She was persuaded 
that Mr F was not told hed need to apply  to receive  FIT payments, and that without the 
financial benefits he was expecting, the system was unaffordable and mis-sold.
To put things right the investigator suggested Ikano fully unwind the contract, by arranging  
for the removal of the system and refunding any payments Mr F has made  to service the 
loan, along with interest.
Mr F accepted the investigators assessment, but Ikano asked for additional time to respond.  
It wanted to confirm some information  with Mikhno.  
After a couple of further time extensions  Ikano did respond and forwarded further comments  
made by Mikhno.   In summary, it said there are indications that the FIT would  have been  
discussed with Mr F at the point of sale, but it cant determine why he didnt sign up to 
receive them.  It also noted Mr F had been  visited by senior staff from Mikhno  on multiple  
occasions, yet it appears there was no mention of the fact he wasnt  receiving FIT payments.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN65346582In situations where  its uncertain what happened, or the parties  have set out a different 
version of events, Im required to decide  whats most likely to have happened on balance.
In this complaint,  Ive considered Mr Fs circumstances as being  particularly important.  At 
the time Mikhno  sold him the solar panel  system,  he was retired and reliant on a modest  
pension income  of around £700 per month.  So, for him to have committed to a 10-year loan 
and a monthly payment of around  £82 per month,  I consider it likely he was expecting a 
considerable benefit from the solar panels.
Mr F says he was told that he would receive free electricity and a government  grant.   Im 
satisfied that whats  likely  meant by the government grant is indeed  the FIT payments.  But I 
note that whilst the system has provided  some energy savings, he hasnt received free 
electricity, and if hed been  told of the need to register for FIT payments then I believe he 
would have gone ahead and made the necessary arrangements.
So, given the fact the cost of the loan represents such a significant proportion of Mr Fs 
income, and that he complained about  the lack of performance and monthly FIT payments 
so soon, Im persuaded he was mis-sold the system.  Had he been able to mitigate  the loan 
cost by signing up for FIT payments I believe he would have done so.  So, the likely 
alternative is that he wasnt made aware  that was necessary.
Ive also considered whether it would be possible for Mr F to now register  for FIT payments, 
but the scheme no longer  exists for new registrations, and this is evidenced by a letter  from 
Ofgem confirming Mr F would  be unable  to apply for FIT payments.
Overall, Im satisfied the system was likely mis-represented to Mr F and was mis-sold.  Had 
he known that he would  be required to service the monthly loan payment without the benefit 
of free electricity or the subsidy of FIT payments, I dont think he would have proceeded with 
the purchase or entered  the loan agreement.
So, Im satisfied Ikano  ought  to have upheld Mr Fs claim under  the CCA.
fair compensation
As Ive concluded its not likely Mr F would have gone ahead with the purchase of the 
system and loan, I think fair compensation would be to put him back  into the position as if 
that was the case.
So, to put things right Ikano should do the following:
Arrange and pay for the removal of the solar panel system from Mr Fs property and 
ensure any remedial work  is undertaken.
Cancel the loan.
Refund all payments made by Mr F towards  the loan with 8% simple interest from the 
date of each payment  to the date of settlement.
Make  any adjustments  required to Mr Fs credit file to remove  any record  of the loan.
Im aware that during  the period in which the solar  panels have been  installed, Mr F will have 
benefited to some extent  from a reduction in his energy bills  and Ive considered  whether a 
deduction should be made  for that.  But as the savings are minimal in comparison to what Mr 
Ref: DRN65346583F was expecting, and they will have varied from month to month, to keep redress simple  I 
think its fair and reasonable for no deduction to be made in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Ikano Bank AB (publ).   To put 
things right, I direct it pay to Mr F the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6534658