K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that he was misled about  a car supplied to him by RCI Financial Services  
Limited (RCI)  under  a hire purchase  agreement he had with it. Mr W is also unhappy that 
an old finance agreement  he had on a car he part exchanged was not settled  as promised 
and that he was contacted at an email address he asked not to be contacted on. 
Background
Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI in January 2017  to finance and 
supply a new car. The agreement was for 37 months and the cash price of the car was 
£22,505. Mr W paid a deposit of £500. Mr W says before he entered  into the agreement, he 
was told by the dealership (who I shall call C) that at the end of the agreement  he would 
have some equity in the car to put towards a new car i.e. the car would  fetch a sale value 
more than the amount required to pay off the finance agreement. He says he relied on this 
statement when making his decision to enter into the agreement. 
Mr W says that C also agreed to purchase  what was his current car as part of the deal      
(car 1). Mr W had finance outstanding relating  to car 1 with a lender  (who I shall refer to as 
lender A) and C agreed to pay this off. The sales invoice  Mr W has provided  shows that C 
paid Mr W £10,746.50  for car 1 and that the amount  outstanding on the finance agreement  
with lender A was £12,740. Mr W says he discovered a little while  after entering into the 
agreement that C had obtained a lower settlement figure from lender A of £11,991.85 and 
paid this to it instead.  Mr W says this was a fraudulent act by C because it already had a 
valid settlement quote and shouldnt have used his details to obtain a new one. 
Around 27 months into the agreement Mr W enquired about the value of the car and says he 
discovered he was in negative equity i.e. the likely value of the car was less than the amount 
of finance he still needed to repay. Mr W has said this shortfall  was around £3,800. Soon 
after this, Mr W voluntary  terminated the agreement and gave  back  the car, leaving him with 
a liability to RCI of around  £1,800. He was also charged around £225 for some damage to 
the car and a missing service history. 
Mr W says that when  he was in the process of voluntary  terminating  his agreement, he 
asked RCI to email him on his personal email address. RCI didnt do this and instead 
emailed a work address hed used to send a previous email.
RCI said the way the agreement  worked  would have been  explained  to Mr W by C and there 
was nothing to suggest hed been  told something  different.  It acknowledged  Mr W had asked 
it to email him on a different email  address  and offered him £50 compensation. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020  where  I explained why I thought Mr Ws 
complaint should  be upheld  in part and the following extract from my provisional decision  
forms part of my final decision:
Paying off Mr Ws old finance agreement
Mr W complains about things  said and done by C both before and after he entered  
into the hire purchase  agreement. However, his complaint is against the business 
that provided him with finance and supplied the car to him. 
Ref: DRN62106942Section 56 (S56) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  provides that any 
negotiations conducted by a credit broker in relation to goods  sold or proposed to be 
sold by the credit broker to the creditor before forming  the subject matter  of a 
relevant credit agreement  are deemed  to be conducted by the negotiator in the 
capacity of agent of the creditor as well as in his actual capacity. In this case, C was 
a credit broker as it introduced Mr W to RCI with a view to entering into a credit 
agreement. 
When deciding what is fair and reasonable in this complaint, I must take account of 
relevant legislation. So, I think S56 of the CCA is a relevant consideration when 
looking at whether its fair to hold RCI responsible for things said or done  by C before 
Mr W entered into the hire purchase  agreement. 
From what  Ive seen on Mr Ws copy of the vehicle order  form from C and Cs 
subsequent actions, its clear enough that as part of the overall deal for the car, C 
agreed to pay off Mr Ws finance with lender A in exchange for taking car 1 from him. 
I dont find this would have happened without  prior discussion and negotiation 
between Mr W and C. 
Having considered the evidence on this point, I am satisfied that RCI can be 
considered responsible under S56 of the CCA  for the things C said during the sales  
negotiations. So, I can consider a complaint against RCI regarding what  C promised 
as part of the deal and I can consider whether or not this aspect of the deal 
materialised or not. 
I see the finance with lender A was eventually settled by C on 16 February 2017 with 
it paying £11,991.85. This is lower than the settlement figure written on Mr Ws copy  
of the vehicle order form, which was £12,740.  The notes  Mr W has provided  from 
lender A show that it generated two settlement quotes around the time Mr W 
acquired the new car. One on 27 January 2017 for £12,366.11  and a second on 5 
February 2017 for £11,991.85.  Both of these are different to the settlement figure on 
Mr Ws copy of the vehicle  order form. 
This is explained by the fact lender A took two more  monthly payments from Mr W 
after the vehicle  order form had been signed but before he entered  into the hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. So, C paid lender A the amount  required to settle the 
finance on 16 February 2017  rather the amount that was required when Mr W signed 
the vehicle order  from on 27 December 2016.
With that said, the cash price of the car on Mr Ws new finance  agreement (and 
therefore the amount of credit he required)  came from the vehicle order form and this 
was calculated on the basis the amount required to settle the finance  with lender A 
was £12,740.  Ive not seen anything to suggest C told Mr W that the amount it would 
settle the old finance agreement might change and the settlement quote from 
December 2016  was still valid. So, it was only fair that the difference  between the 
settlement figure on the vehicle order form and the amount paid to actually settle the 
finance was returned to Mr W. C refunded this amount to Mr W not long after it had 
paid off the finance with lender A. 
I do have some concerns  that RCI has provided  us with a vehicle order form from C 
which is different to the one Mr W has provided  us with.  This copy  has the 
settlement figure for the old finance  agreement written as £11,991.85 (the amount 
Ref: DRN62106943the finance was actually  settled at), and the part exchange value of car 1 at 
£9,998.35. 
The actual difference between these  two figures  is exactly  same as the difference 
between the two figures on Mr Ws copy of the vehicle order from so it made no 
difference to the cash price of the new car. However, Im conscious that Mr W alleges 
C attempted to deceive him about  the amount  it was paying to clear  his finance 
agreement and evidence  like this where the part exchange value of car 1 appears to 
have been changed from what was originally  agreed only adds weight to that 
allegation. 
I know Mr W alleges fraud. But as I explained earlier in this decision,  my main 
consideration in respect of this part of Mr Ws complaint (which I can look at against 
RCI) is whether the aspect of the deal where C said it would pay off Mr Ws old 
finance agreement  materialised.  C did clear his old finance and while  some questions  
remain about its intentions, Mr W is no worse off as a result of what happened as C 
did return the difference between £12,740  and £11,991.85 to him eventually.  
On that point, I accept  that it required some intervention from Mr W to get his money 
back including chasing C on a number of occasions  which would have been 
inconvenient for him. And Mr W has clearly been  distressed by the way in which  C 
went about settling  his old finance agreement. Overall, I think  RCI should  pay Mr W 
some compensation for distress and inconvenience in respect to this part of his 
complaint. Ill detail this at the end of this decision.
Misstatements about equity in the car
Mr W says the car was misrepresented to him by C because he was specifically told 
by the salesman that he would have  some equity in it at the end of his agreement 
that he could put towards a new car. Again, I can look at things said by C in this 
respect against RCI due to the operation of S56 of the CCA. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  an individual to (in this 
case) enter into a contract. 
RCI said its unable to comment on any dialogue  between Mr W and C as it wasnt  
present at the point of sale. But it says the way the agreement worked including 
something called the guaranteed future  value (GFV)  would have been explained by 
C. 
The GFV is a guarantee  that the car will be worth  a certain price  at the end of the 
agreement and is usually  the same amount as the optional final payment required  to 
pay off the hire purchase agreement. On Mr Ws agreement this was £10,478.94.
What this usually  means  in practice  is that if the market value of the car is less than 
the GFV/optional  final payment at the end of the agreement, a consumer can hand  
the car back  at no further cost to them (save  for any mileage or damage  charges),  
equally if its more, a consumer can still purchase  the car by paying just the 
GFV/optional final payment.  To have equity  in the car at the end of the agreement,  
Mr W would  need to have  sold it or part exchanged it for a price that was higher than 
the optional final payment  of £10,478.94 on his hire purchase agreement. 
Ref: DRN62106944The term GFV isnt mentioned in Mr Ws agreement but I think  what  RCI is likely 
trying to say is that it explained the way the optional final payment worked to Mr W. 
Its clear Mr W feels very strongly he was told he would have equity over and above 
the optional final payment  and hes described  in some detail that when he asked 
about this, the salesperson told him hed have something to put towards  a new car.  
Ive found his recollections to be clear, plausible and consistent. RCI has provided 
very little detail about what was discussed and the salesperson has since left C so 
isnt available  for comment.  I think based  on what Ive seen, its most likely that Mr W 
was told hed have  equity in the car over and above  the optional final payment at the 
end of the agreement. 
There was no way of knowing whether  the market value of the car would  be more 
than the optional final payment at the end of the agreement as this was dependent 
on a number of factors, some outside  of anyones control. So, the statement made by 
C wasnt correct. 
I therefore now need to consider whether this statement induced Mr W to enter into 
the agreement  with RCI. 
It is difficult to know  for certain  whether  Mr W would still have entered into the 
agreement had he been given correct information.  Ive considered what I think  he 
would most  likely have  done in light of the available evidence.
As a starting point,  I find it highly unlikely Mr W would  have  been  able to take out a 
hire purchase agreement where  equity at the end was guaranteed as it is not a 
normal feature of hire purchase agreement.  So, this wasnt  an option for Mr W.
Ive also kept in mind  that the value  of car 1 was less than the amount required to 
clear the finance  on it. Ive checked  valuation guides such  as Parkers and Glasses  
and the amount car 1 was worth at the time of the deal was around the same as what 
C paid him for it. So, if Mr W was to trade in or sell car 1 as part of any alternative 
deal for this car, he would  also have had to find around £2,000 to clear  his old 
finance agreement.
Mr W has said he would easily  have been  able to repay such  a shortfall with either 
his credit card or by refinancing elsewhere  had he chosen a different  method of 
acquiring the car as he said he had an excellent credit score. 
This kind of credit (particularly a loan) is not always guaranteed. And even if Mr W 
was able to refinance  the shortfall,  theres no way of knowing how long he would 
have taken to repay  this sum, so there  would likely have been  interest  costs  on this 
amount too. Furthermore, Mr W would have had to find a buyer  for car 1 or agree a 
similar trade in on any alternative deal he found. 
Im conscious also from looking at the vehicle order form that there was an allowance 
on the cash price of the new car of a very similar  amount to that of the shortfall on  
Mr Ws old finance agreement. Its not clear  whether  this was in fact offered to help 
alleviate the cost of repaying  the old finance  agreement or just an additional incentive 
to take a new car. But its still a perk that Mr W might not otherwise  have  been  able to 
secure with an alternative option.  
Ref: DRN62106945I think all of this would  have made  alternative options to Mr Ws hire purchase  
agreement less attractive and makes  it more likely he would still have entered into 
the hire purchase  agreement had it been explained  that equity was not guaranteed.
Mr W has given  us alternative costs for leasing the same car which he says would 
have worked out around £4,000 cheaper  over the life of the agreement. Taking  the 
shortfall on his old finance  agreement with lender  A into account and his deposit,  this 
would have been more in the region of £1,500 to £2,000.
The information Mr W has provided about alternative deals are not quotes,  just 
adverts showing examples of what might be available  the information has a link to 
click for an actual quote. Lease quotes  factor in a number  of things, some unique  to 
the individual applying so these figures  werent  guaranteed quotes. But I accept its 
likely that leasing could  have been a cheaper  option for Mr W if he didnt want to own 
the car at the end of three years. 
I bear in mind also that this information  has been provided with the benefit  of 
hindsight. I dont think the evidence shows Mr W would  necessarily  have chosen  this 
option. I say this because leasing still looks have to have been the cheaper option  for 
Mr W even if there had been a realistic  amount  of equity in the car at the end of the 
agreement.  
Mr W has not said how much equity he was told he might have at the end of the 
agreement, just that there would be something to put towards a new car. This would 
have had to be a considerable amount to make the cost of the hire purchase  
agreement more attractive than the cost of leasing at the prices Mr W has said he 
couldve achieved  at least  £1,500  based  on the adverts Mr W has given as 
examples. I dont find this would have been a realistic expectation  in the 
circumstances.
However, Mr W was still prepared  to enter  into the hire purchase  agreement rather  
than the seemingly cheaper  lease deal. So, I think there was most likely something 
(other than or equally  as important as having  some equity to put towards a new car at 
the end of the agreement) that made  the hire purchase agreement the most attractive 
option to Mr W at the time. 
As an aside  on this point,  I know Mr W has said C should have pointed  him towards 
cheaper options elsewhere.  But this was not an advised sale in the way one might  
see with insurance  or investment recommendations. So, I dont agree C had such an 
obligation. 
Weighing all of this up (and this has not been a straightforward decision)  while I do 
think Mr W was given incorrect information before he entered into the hire purchase  
agreement, Im not persuaded Mr W would be in a different position had it been 
made clear there was no guarantee hed have equity to put towards a new car at the 
end of his agreement. I think Mr W would still have entered  into a hire purchase  
agreement  either with RCI or elsewhere  on similar  terms. So, I dont think hes any 
worse off as a result of what happened. 
In other  words, I dont  think Mr W was induced into entering into the contract  by the 
false statement made by C. As both elements  necessary for a misrepresentation are 
not present,  I dont  find a misrepresentation took place. 
Ref: DRN62106946Mr W voluntary  terminated his agreement after 27 months leaving a shortfall  of 
£1,800 to pay. Mr W says C told him he would have equity at the end of the 
agreement, not that the car would never be in a position of negative equity. He hadnt 
reached the end of the agreement yet when he voluntary terminated it. The way cars 
tend to depreciate  often  means that negative equity can exist for large parts of an 
agreement but improve towards the end. At the point Mr W decided to voluntary 
terminate his agreement, it wasnt clear hed definitely be in negative equity at the 
end of it. I know Mr W felt he had to exit the agreement  given his strength of feeling.  
But had the agreement run its course,  Mr W wouldnt have owed anything extra even 
if the car had still been in negative equity because of the GMFV/optional final 
repayment. So, I dont  think Mr Ws losses in this respect can be put down to the 
statement made by C  and also (for the reasons Ive explained) because I think  he 
would have entered into the same agreement  anyway. 
Ive also considered what Mr W has said about  legislation and case  law relating to 
fraud and negligent misstatement. This service is not a court  so I do not apply the law 
directly in the same way a court might. I have taken relevant  law into account when 
deciding if Mr W was misled in a way that led him to enter into the hire purchase 
agreement and suffer a loss. But as Ive already explained, I dont think Mr W has 
suffered a financial loss as a result of Cs statement about having equity in the car 
because Ive concluded that he would  still have entered into the hire purchase 
agreement. So, even having  regard  to the law relating to negligent misstatement and 
fraud this doesnt  result  in a different conclusion. 
Lastly on this point,  Ive thought about  what Mr W has said that it became a term of 
his contract with RCI that he would have equity in the car.  Even  if I were  to accept 
that were the case, if I were looking at how a breach of such  a term might  be fairly 
remedied, Id need to consider what Mr W was contractually due to receive under it 
and what losses have  been suffered as a result  of any breach. This isnt quantifiable 
here given  Mr W hasnt  said how much  equity he was told he would have (and that it 
seems unlikely from what he has said that he was given a precise figure).
Taking all of this into account  (along with what Ive concluded above  about Mr W 
likely still taking out a hire purchase  agreement in any event) I still dont think there 
are any losses  in this respect that I can fairly hold RCI responsible for. 
However, with all this said I accept it will have  been distressing for Mr W to learn that, 
in all likelihood, he wouldnt have equity in the car at the end of the agreement.  Ive 
checked with a number of car valuation tools and the average value of Mr Ws car at 
the end of 36 months was (very marginally)  less than the optional  final payment. So 
even if hed waited  until the end of his agreement rather than voluntarily terminating 
it, there  still wouldnt have  been anything to put towards a new car. I think therefore 
RCI should pay Mr W compensation for this distress. 
Contacting Mr W at the wrong email address
RCI has accepted  that it should have acted on Mr Ws instructions and not contacted 
him on his work email address. It offered to pay him £50 compensation for this. From 
what Mr W has explained about  the impact this had on him I dont think  this is a fair 
amount. Mr W has said he was on holiday  when  RCI emailed him and during this 
period some  of his work  colleagues had access his work emails. He says this caused 
Ref: DRN62106947him distress as he didnt  want his colleagues knowing about his personal business or 
that such business had been  conducted  via a work  email address. I think  £100  is 
more appropriate  compensation in the circumstances given the impact the error had 
on Mr W.
Conduct in respect  of Mr Ws complaint
Mr W has complained about the way RCI handled  his complaint, for example he says 
it said things to discourage him from making  one. Complaint handling by itself 
however is not a regulated activity  that I consider a complaint  about.  So, I make  no 
award in respect  of these points.  
Lastly, I recognise that Mr W has pointed out what he considers are a number of 
breaches of the FCA principles. Its not the role of this service to punish  a business 
for any specific breaches of these  principles but I have taken them into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint even 
if I havent specifically  mentioned each  one in my findings. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I think RCI should pay Mr W compensation of 
£350 for the inconvenience caused by not paying his finance agreement in the way 
that was agreed  (and the distress caused  by the surrounding confusion),  the distress  
caused to Mr W by giving him  incorrect information about the likelihood of there 
being equity in the car at the end of the agreement and contacting  him on an email 
address he asked it not to. Im not planning to make  any other award or direction. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my findings given the strength of feeling he 
clearly has about his complaint.  
RCI responded and questioned why I had reached  a different conclusion to that of the 
investigator about Mr W being given incorrect information about the likelihood  of equity at the 
end of the agreement when no new evidence  had been provided. 
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional  decision. He said he would not have entered  into the 
agreement if hed known  he wouldnt  have  equity in the car at the end of it. Mr W said he 
would have waited  until nearer the end of the finance agreement  on his existing car before  
making a decision  about whether to get a new one. 
Mr W also said he believes his contract with RCI became  frustrated when it became 
apparent there would be no equity in the car at the end of agreement so he should be 
released form any remaining contractual  obligations.   
Mr W also said he still thinks  that C committed fraud  and that I should be able to say whether 
I think this was the case or not. 
The complaint was then brought back to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62106948Ive seen no further evidence or comments that have led me to reach a different overall 
conclusion from that in my provisional  decision. However, I will address the points both 
parties have made since my provisional decision. 
Mr Ws statement  he would not have entered into the hire purchase  agreement
Ive thought about what Mr W has said about  how he would have waited until nearer  the end 
of the finance  agreement  on car 1 before getting a new car had he known the true position 
with future  equity. Mr W had a conditional sale agreement for car 1, which  typically includes 
an obligation  to purchase the car at the end of the agreement. And the final payment  on 
Mr Ws agreement  was around  £8,000. So, had Mr W waited  longer,  I find he would  still have 
had to make  a similar decision about what he did with car 1 to that explained  in my 
provisional decision i.e. he would still have had to consider selling or part exchanging it, with 
the possibility  of negative equity if he wanted a new car or hed have been obliged  to 
purchase the car or voluntary terminate the agreement. So, I dont think waiting would 
necessarily have been any more attractive  at the time Mr W was making his mind up about  
entering into the hire purchase agreement with RCI. 
Ive given further consideration also to what Mr W has said about how key the statement 
about having equity in car at the end of the agreement was to his decision making  at the 
time he entered into the hire purchase agreement. There is no suggestion  from Mr W that he 
was told how much equity  he might have, not even a ballpark figure. So, if such a statement 
was so key to Mr Ws decision-making  process, I still think  its necessary to consider whether 
he would  have acted  differently (i.e. not gone  ahead with the hire purchase  agreement) had 
the likely  position  on equity been explained  to him during the discussions with the dealer.
There was no way of knowing at the time the agreement  was entered  into what price  Mr W 
might be able to achieve  if he sold or part exchanged the car at the end the agreement (and 
therefore whether  there would be any equity in the car over and above  the optional  final 
payment required  to pay off the agreement). However, Mr W was carrying  over negative 
equity of around £2,000 from the old finance  agreement with lender A on car 1 into this one 
and his deposit amount was not particularly high at £500. So, it seems fairly unlikely on 
balance that he would  have been  able to sell the car or part or part exchange  it at the end of 
his agreement for much more than optional final payment amount  as the value of the car 
would have needed to outstrip  these things. And even if he was able to in a best case 
scenario, its likely this amount would have been  fairly small with these things considered.  
Given the likelihood of this amount being minimal, I think  there would have been little 
difference between  the position Mr W would actually have found himself in at the end of the 
agreement without any equity in the car (i.e. able to simply hand  the car back with nothing  
left to pay  bar any excess mileage or damage charges  should he choose)  and the likely 
best case scenario  (i.e. possibly having  a very small amount of equity at the end of 
agreement). Taking this into account,  along  with the factors I explained in my provisional 
decision which might  have made other ways of acquiring a new car less attractive, I dont  
think this would have  been the difference between entering or not entering into the hire 
purchase agreement  for Mr W. So, I still dont think Mr W would have made a different 
decision had the possibility of future equity in the car been properly explained to him. 
Overall, taken along with the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision Im not inclined  
to change my finding that although  Mr W was given incorrect information  about the car 
(insofar as he was told there would be equity in the car at the end of the hire purchase 
agreement) he would still have entered into this agreement had the true position  about future 
Ref: DRN62106949equity been explained. I consider that it is fair, in all the circumstances of this case, taking  
into account what arose before and since Mr W entered into the agreement  with RCI, that 
Mr W should be required to perform that agreement according to its terms. And I still think  
fair compensation for this incorrect information  is the payment for distress  and 
inconvenience Ive awarded at the end of this decision  and for the reasons  I explained  in my 
provisional decision. 
Frustration of the contract with RCI
Mr W says his contract with RCI became frustrated because there was no chance of equity 
after 27 months. At 27 months into a 37 month agreement  there  was no way of knowing for 
certain whether  the car might fetch a sale or part exchange price  higher or lower than the 
optional final payment at the end of the agreement as there were still so many  factors  that 
would determine  this. So, I dont agree the contract  became frustrated  at that point. But in 
any event, it is my understanding  of relevant law that a contract becomes frustrated where 
an unforeseen event  either renders contractual obligations impossible, or radically changes 
the parties principal  purpose for entering into the contract. I dont think that happened  here 
because the contract  didnt become  impossible  to perform  RCI was still able to supply the 
car to Mr W. I dont  think the parties  main purpose for entering  the contract radically 
changed either. Mr W wanted a car on finance  and RCI gave him just that. 
Fraudulent actions
Mr W has asked  me specifically to comment on whether I think  the act of Fraud  was 
committed by C. I have  made findings  in this decision on the actions of RCI as it is the 
recipient of this complaint not C. I explained  the circumstances where this extends to things 
said or done by C in my provisional decision. I also explained in my provisional decision why 
I didnt think any incorrect statements about  future  equity made by C, or its failure  to clear his 
old finance on car 1 resulted in Mr W losing out financially. Ive not been  given anything  that 
makes me think I should change the findings  I made  on these points in my provisional 
decision. So, whether the actions of C were  fraudulent or not, I do not think  it makes  a 
difference to what I think a fair and reasonable  outcome looks like in this case.  And I 
reiterate that C is not the respondent in this complaint, so it would not be appropriate for me 
to comment further. 
I recognise, as set out in my provisional decision,  that there are two different  versions  of the 
vehicle order form containing different  figures and no explanation  has been offered from RCI 
about why this is the case. But this hasnt impacted the cash  price of the car or the amount 
of credit provided. And any sums  that Mr W lost out on a result  of C paying a different 
amount to lender A have been returned to Mr W. So, I dont think  this has caused Mr W to 
suffer any financial loss and I still dont think  RCI needs to do anything more  in respect of 
this. 
  
RCI have questioned why I have found  that Mr W was given incorrect information  about the 
equity in the car at the end of the agreement  when the investigator  did not. I explained in my 
provisional decision why this was the case. But for the avoidance of doubt  I found Mr Ws 
testimony in respect  of what  he was told to be clear,  consistent  and credible and the most 
likely version  of events in the absence of any persuasive testimony  from RCI or C. 
Ive not been provided with any new evidence or comments that makes me think  the other  
findings I made in my provisional decision were unreasonable.  So, I still think  RCI should  
Ref: DRN621069410pay Mr W compensation of £350  for the inconvenience caused by not paying his finance 
agreement in the way that was agreed (and the distress caused by the surrounding 
confusion), the distress caused to Mr W by giving him  incorrect  information  about the 
likelihood of there being equity in the car at the end of the agreement and contacting him on 
an email address he asked it not to
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part insofar as I think  he 
was caused distress and inconvenience by RCI. RCI Financial  Services  Limited must pay  
Mr W compensation of £350 for the distress  and inconvenience it caused  him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 December  2020.
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6210694