K820x#14complaint
Mr S is represented. The complaint,  as presented by his representative, is that Marshall  
Wooldridge Financial Services Ltd (Marshall) is responsible for the following:
The lack of proper  investment assessment and documentation  for and suitable 
investment advice to Mr S in 2017, in terms of his reinvestment of the proceeds from 
the maturity of a fixed-term Structured Deposit investment within his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  The reinvestment  was in the Investec FTSE 100 6 Year 
Defensive Deposit  Plan 14 (the Investec  fund).  [issue 1]
Similar or the same failures related to its advice in previous investments by Mr S. 
[issue 2]
Misrepresentation of its advice  as being on a whole of market basis   when it was 
not. [issue 3] 
Breach of Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) guidelines in relation to issues  1, 2 and 
3. [issue 4]
Failure to properly  address enquiries put to it in the course of the review conducted 
by Mr S representative. [issue 5]
background
Marshall disputes the complaint. In the main, its position is as follows:
Mr S (and his representatives) initial concern in 2018 was that the Investec  fund was 
unsuitable, in the context of his poor health,  because penalties apply to it in the event 
of his death before its maturity. There was/is no merit in this concern. Mr S was given 
enough information in 2017  to know this and his representative was given the same 
in 2018. The information confirms that no penalty  applies in the event of death before 
maturity; that the full initial deposit or, if higher,  the market value would be repaid; 
and that the fund could also be assigned to another person if preferred.
Upon its clarification of Mr S initial concern neither he nor his representative has 
mentioned it since. Instead,  his representative  moved to request copies of 
documents it held in relation to Mr S and to conduct  what it considers to have been  
an unnecessary quality assessment of those documents.
Mr S representative raised  a point about the value (money)  invested in the Investec 
fund unsuitably being beyond the protection limit offered by the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  thereby,  in the representatives words, leaving 
significantly  more  than half of his investment at risk. In this respect, it considers that 
the fund is a structured deposit product  comparable to the previous structured 
deposit fund that matured  in 2017   in which the deposit was/is not at risk, so the 
representatives statement is misleading at best; in addition,  the previous fund was 
in the same position in terms of FSCS protection.
With regards to suitability of the Investec fund, it is a deposit  based fund where  return  
of capital is guaranteed upon death or maturity,  with potential for the return  of an 
additional 25%. It has not made a loss. It was consistent with Mr S objective to have  
the same  type of fund as the fund that matured  in 2017. Investec, as the 
recommended provider, was considered a financially strong company and a leading 
provider in these  types of funds.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. He noted that Mr S preferred outcome is 
to have his investment transferred to a bank deposit  (with Marshall responsible for any 
associated costs or penalties), to obtain a refund of the advice fee of £1,900 he paid in 2017, 
Ref: DRN66134402to have Marshall cover the costs  of his representatives work and to have Marshall  pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to him. 
However, the adjudicator concluded that the complaint  should  not be upheld. In the main,  he 
said:
Mr S initial concern about  penalties in the fund in the event of death  before maturity 
has been resolved.  No such  penalties exist and this is supported  by the key features 
document for the fund.
Mr S representatives concerns about Marshalls advice process  and the 
representatives assertions about flaws within it  is noted, however the key 
consideration is whether (or not) the Investec  fund was suitable  for Mr S. In this 
respect, in light of available evidence [to which the adjudicator  summarily referred] 
and for reasons broadly  the same as those given by Marshall (in terms of the funds 
characteristics matching Mr S profile  and objective), the Investec fund was not 
unsuitable for him. 
The point  about FSCS protection is also noted. The money  invested  in the fund was 
around £191,000 and the relevant protection limit is £85,000. He has seen evidence 
suggesting that, due to the investment taking place within  a SIPP, the alternatives to 
the fund were limited.  It was not unreasonable for Marshall to have selected, from the 
range of providers  available on the SIPP platform, Investec  for Mr S fund.
The fee charged by and paid to Marshall was not unreasonable  for the advice service 
it provided. 
Mr S and his representative disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. His representative considered that the wider complaint  issues had not been given 
weight, that those issues raise regulatory  concerns which should  be addressed, that Mr S 
considers himself to have  been duped by Marshall  and that it cannot be proven that he was 
given best advice .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly similar  reasons.
Mr S initial concern
As the adjudicator said, the concern about penalties in the investment in the event of death 
before maturity has been resolved. No such penalties  exist. The matter does not appear  to 
have been in dispute since  Marshall clarified  it and it does not presently appear to be in 
dispute. 
Issue 1
This features Marshalls investment assessment process, its responsibility to give suitable 
advice (to Mr S) and its documentation of the entire assessment and advice process.
I appreciate the specific points that Mr S representative has made  in asserting an alleged  
contrast between how the assessment, advice and documentation  should have taken place  
and how, based  on his findings, they actually took place in Mr S case. I do not consider that 
the adjudicator  was dismissive of the wider issues as the representative claims. I have 
Ref: DRN66134403noted, within his communication  with the parties,  where the adjudicator  commented  on the 
available documentation  for the overall  process (including assessments conducted prior to 
2017) and commented on what  was and was not satisfactory.
However, the adjudicators approach in addressing the matter  of suitability was appropriate 
and it is the same as the approach I have taken. The key issue is whether (or not) the 
investment recommended  to Mr S in 2017  was suitable. I do not suggest  that the notion of 
poor documentation is acceptable, but that is not an issue. I am satisfied that there is 
enough documentary  evidence upon which to determine the question of suitability  in this 
case. Documentation, in isolation,  would not determine this question  as the adjudicator  
suggested, it is possible for suitable  advice  to have been poorly  documented as it is possible 
for unsuitable advice  to have been  properly documented.  
In terms of Marshalls investment assessment process, and in the context of determining  the 
question of suitability,  I consider  there  is enough evidence  that it applied  a broadly 
appropriate process. There is evidence of assessments in previous years  being referred to, 
being updated (or the absence of meaningful updates, due to no changes in Mr S 
circumstances, being noted)  and being  used to inform the assessment and advice given in 
2017. There is documentation showing Marshalls reinvestment advice to Mr S in terms of its 
advice letters and financial  report. I have seen assertions or suggestions by Mr S 
representative that some of the documents that have been shared by Marshall were  not (or 
might not have been) received by Mr S in 2017. Overall and on balance, I am persuaded  
by the presentation of these documents, their contents and the manner in which investment 
actions appear to be consistent with their contents  to conclude that they were sent by 
Marshall and that they were  more likely  (than not) received by Mr S.
In straightforward terms, the state of affairs in 2017  appears to have been such that Mr S 
circumstances were  broadly the same as they had been for a number of years  before  or 
not significantly changed from those years  and that his objective was to reinvest in 
something comparable  to the previous  fund that had matured at the time. The Investec fund 
was a match in this respect.  His capital was protected  upon  death or maturity  and, in 
addition, there was potential for up to 25% growth.  The six years term does not appear to 
have been unreasonable  in the circumstances  and I do not accept the somewhat indirect 
argument (or suggestion)  that it was a risky investment because  the money invested 
exceeded the FSCS protection limit. Return  of the money  invested  was guaranteed upon  
death or maturity.  Available fact find and assessment evidence suggest  that Mr S did not 
need income from the investment and that he neither planned to nor was he likely  to 
surrender the fund prior to maturity. This does  not portray a venture with risks to capital. I 
appreciate that there is a value in FSCS  protection where firms fail, but the risk of such 
failure could arguably  exist in general (in investments)  hence  the scope of FSCS protection 
 and Marshall appears to have taken  reasonable steps to recommend Investec as a 
suitable provider.
Marshall was not obliged by regulation to give the best advice. It was obliged to give suitable 
advice. Overall and on balance, I consider that its recommendation of the Investec fund to 
Mr S was suitable.
Issue 2
The Investec  fund appears to be the main (or only) investment that has been featured  in Mr 
S complaint. I have  seen evidence of previous investment assessments conducted for him 
and previous investment(s)  but I have not seen enough to establish that his complaint  
Ref: DRN66134404extends to other specific investments which he alleges to have been  unsuitably 
recommended to him by Marshall.
Issue 3
I have not seen evidence upon which to conclude that Marshall  was not a whole of market  
adviser and that it misrepresented to Mr S that it was. Mr S representatives assertion 
appears to be that Marshall  could or should  have recommended alternatives to the Investec  
fund and that it did not do this, so the implication is that the notion of it advising on a whole 
of market basis was misleading. In the absence of evidence that establishes the alleged 
misrepresentation, what remains is the question  of whether (or not) Marshalls  
recommendation to Mr S was suitable. As I said above, it was. 
This does  not mean that there were no alternatives that could have been put to Mr S in 2017 
or that such alternatives  could not have  been  better (or best). It is possible that alternative  
recommendations could have been presented to Mr S and I appreciate  that his 
representative could  argue that they could or would  have been better than the Investec fund.  
However that does  not automatically  make  the Investec fund unsuitable. 
Issue 4
The breach  of FCA guidelines alleged  by Mr S representative relate mainly to Marshalls  
investment assessment and documentation  process. Where relevant to the complaint about 
suitability this issue has been considered. As I said above, overall I consider Marshalls 
investment assessment process to have been  broadly  appropriate and there is enough 
available documentation  to determine  the question of suitability  which I have done. Beyond  
this, any concern about how Marshall  ran its business in terms of its processes and its 
management of documents  is a matter between  it and the regulator  (the FCA). It is not in the 
remit of this service to address regulatory matters  or to make punitive awards wholly or 
partly based  on a view that regulations have or could have been breached.
Issue 5
Based on what I have seen of the correspondence  between the parties, I am not persuaded 
that Marshall conducted itself unreasonably  in responding to the queries it received from Mr 
S representative. It appears to have given him the explanations and documents it was in a 
position to give him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6613440