K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about what happened  when they tried to open a bank account with 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BoI). Mrs S has brought this complaint to our service.
background
Mrs S said that she went to a branch of BoI with her husband, to open a new account that 
they would  operate on behalf of a child. But Mrs S said that she was treated very badly by 
the staff. She said that their instructions about  what I.D. they would accept were confused 
and wrong. And she said that they had been goading her, to try to get her to lose her temper  
and shout, but she hadnt. She said that she was eventually  told that BoI wouldnt open  the 
account for her. 
Mrs S said that the experience had been  terrible, and that it had made  her cry. She has 
accounts at BoI for other young  family members, and she now plans to close those.  
BOIs branch staff said something  different. They said that the problem was that there wasnt 
any address verification for Mrs Ss husband,  and there wasnt any address verification for 
the child that Mrs S wanted to open  the account  for. The branch said that it had confirmed 
that Mrs S had used  inappropriate, strong language  to its staff, and it had taken a decision 
not to open an account  for her. The branch said that it had reviewed  the CCTV footage from 
that time,  and it didnt  think it had made  a mistake. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that there was clearly  a dispute about 
what had happened, and he wasnt there at the time, so he couldnt be certain what  had 
happened. In the absence of supporting evidence, he said it was difficult to fairly conclude 
that the advisor did something wrong  at the time.  
He said that BoI didnt still have the CCTV recording, so he couldnt look at that. And our 
service cant test a witnesss evidence on oath or compel them  to give evidence.  He said 
that in the absence of specific evidence he couldnt  safely conclude that the events in 
question were as either party had described.  So he couldnt reasonably  say that BoI had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mrs S didnt agree with that. She said that BoI had deleted  the CCTV knowing that our 
service would ask for it, and that it would show the bank in a bad light.  And no one had told 
her why the perfectly acceptable I.D. that she and her husband had wasnt accepted,  and 
why the electoral register wasnt checked  instead. She also said that shed been told that to 
open another account she would need  an existing account there, but she and her husband 
already had a number  of accounts for younger  family  members  at the branch. She also 
asked why she was told that only a bank  statement would be acceptable  as proof  of 
address, and why that was even needed, as BoI was sending  her regular statements for the 
other accounts. 
BoI said that it was only able to accept bank  statements as address I.D., not other bank 
correspondence, which was what Mr S had with him. It said that if Mr S had stayed then it 
couldve checked his address on the electoral roll. Another option wouldve been to check 
any existing details held for Mr and Mrs S. Thats why they were  asked if they had an 
account at BoI, but they said no. And BoI said that it hadnt deleted the CCTV footage  after 
Mrs S had complained.  It had been  held for only a short time, which is the banks normal 
practice. 
Ref: DRN66002622This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our adjudicator.
The CCTV for the day in question  was deleted before our service investigated this complaint.  
So I cant see what happened  on the day. But its not at all unusual  for a branch to delete 
CCTV recordings relatively quickly. I havent  seen anything to make  me think that BoI did 
this because Mr and Mrs S had complained, or because it thought that they were  going to 
bring their complaint  to our service.  
Mr and Mrs S and BoI have offered different  accounts of what  happened on the day. And of 
course, I wasnt  present.  So, like our adjudicator, I cant  be entirely sure what  happened. But 
there are some things  I think  that I can say may be likely to have  happened. 
The first is that it seems likely that Mr S brought as address verification a piece of 
correspondence from a bank, which wasnt a statement. Although Mrs S hasnt mentioned 
this as a form of I.D. that they took,  she has asked why she was told that only a bank 
statement would be acceptable  as proof  of address.  I think thats likely to be because Mr S 
had brought other bank correspondence with him. 
BoI publishes its I.D. requirements online.  Those online requirements say that BoI will accept 
bank statements as address I.D. but not other bank correspondence. BoI can make its own 
decisions about what I.D. it will accept, and this service wont interfere  with that policy. I think  
BoI acted  in line with its policy  when it said that it wouldnt  accept other bank 
correspondence. And I dont think that was unreasonable.
Mrs S also said that she was told that she and Mr S couldnt open a new account  because 
they didnt have an existing account with BoI. She said that they had actually only recently 
closed their BoI account. But then she said that BoI had said the accounts held for younger 
family members would be enough.  And she said she didnt understand why BoI wanted to 
see other statements, when it was sending them regular statements.
BoI says that it thinks that there was a misunderstanding about this. It said it had asked if Mr 
or Mrs S had an account at BoI. BoI says it did that because if they did have accounts, it 
could find their address  that way. But they said no. Given what Mrs S told us, I think that its 
likely that BoI did ask this, and that it did so for this reason. 
In fact, the accounts for Mr and Mrs Ss younger  family members are held in their names, so 
if they had said yes, then BoI couldve found the required information in that way. 
I think there is likely  to have been a misunderstanding  in this case. Possibly more than one 
misunderstanding. I dont  rule out that branch staff may have  initially told Mrs S that they 
wouldnt accept a NI travel pass,  and that Mrs S showed them that this was acceptable I.D.. 
But I think its also likely that Mr Ss address I.D. was not something  BOI would accept. And I 
think its likely that BoI didnt just look up the couple  on its own system because  theyd said 
that they personally didnt hold accounts at BoI, and hadnt mentioned  the accounts they 
hold for young  family members. Mrs S has said that she was told that BoI would look up 
Ref: DRN66002623Mr Ss details  through the electoral roll, then didnt. Shes also said that Mr S had left at this 
point. So I think that BoI may reasonably have had concerns about accessing information  
about Mr S online without his agreement.
Its clear that this complaint has generated strong feelings. BoI decided  that it wouldnt open 
the account that Mr and Mrs S wanted.  And Mr and Mrs S have decided  they no longer want  
to do business  with BoI, so theyve closed  the other accounts they hold there  for their family 
members. Both the bank  and the couple  are free to decide for themselves who they want to 
do business with. Our service wont interfere with the decision on that made by either  side.  
Ive considered all of the issues raised  carefully. Ive said that I cant  be sure what happened. 
But I have said that a number of the points that Mrs S has mentioned seem to me to be likely 
to have been founded on misunderstandings. That means that I dont think Im able to safely  
conclude that the level of customer  service  failings in this case  was as shes described. And 
that in turn means  that, although I know that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, I dont think  
this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6600262