K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the interest rate he got on a hire purchase agreement through 
Black Horse  Limited for a car. He says he thought this would be 0% APR, but it was set up 
as 7.9%  APR.
background
Mr W acquired a used  car in February 2019  at a dealership. The car was around a year old 
and had covered  around 10,220 miles.  The car cost £19,499 and Mr W part exchanged  his 
old car for £9,907.12. This left an amount of £9,591.88 which  was financed with a hire 
purchase agreement  through Black Horse.  
Mr W says hed seen an advert for the car he wanted on the dealers website  which said it 
was available  with finance at 0% APR. He says this was what prompted  him to go to the 
dealers. 
At the dealers Mr W says he showed  them the car he wanted,  but at no point was it 
mentioned the APR was going  to be 7.9%.  He says he later found  out he was being  charged 
interest and complained to Black Horse.
Black Horse  said it had spoken  to the dealer who said the 0% offer was only available on 
new cars  and as Mr W got a used one he didnt qualify. It said the dealer explained that it 
discussed with this Mr W at the time, but he said he couldnt afford the repayments on a new 
car - which is why he purchased a used one. It also said the business manager at the dealer 
discussed the figures for the finance with Mr W and that the APR is shown on the first page 
of the agreement signed by him.
Black Horse  also explained that, although  the dealer  had not made any admission of liability, 
it had made  an offer in order to assist Mr W. It said he could  either return  the newer car and 
have his older one back, or receive  a refund of £550  to £700. Mr W rejected  this offer.
Mr W brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said she didnt think it was likely Mr W was told the finance was 0% APR so she didnt think 
Black Horse  needed to do anything  further.  At this point Mr W also found out the dealer had 
sold his old car and retracted its offer.
Mr W remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. Section 56 of 
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 is relevant  to this complaint. This says that, in certain  
circumstances, a creditor (Black Horse)  can be liable for the actions of a supplier (the dealer) 
with regard to its role of arranging  finance for it. So, I need to consider if the dealer did 
anything wrong  as a credit-broker, such as misrepresenting the finance agreement  to Mr W.
Ref: DRN65532122Mr W says it was never mentioned that the 0% deal didnt apply to the car he bought  and the 
dealer told him the deal was the same as another 0% deal hed seen elsewhere. 
Black Horse  says the dealer explained  all details  of the finance to Mr W and ran through the 
cost of a deal that did involve 0% APR - but Mr W couldnt afford it. So he decided to get a 
used car that he could  afford. Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr W and 
Black Horse  have said.
Clearly in this case I have two versions  of events that contradict each  other. So, Ive looked 
to see if there is any other evidence  from the time the credit was brokered. In this case,  the 
credit agreement signed by Mr W says on the front page that the APR is 7.9% - not 0%. And 
regardless of the specific rate, it does show interest  is due to be charged. 
Mr W also signed a form saying hed been  given a Pre-Contact Credit Information 
Document in good time before signing the credit  agreement, a Pre-contractual Explanation 
that had sections read out to him and had been  given an Affordability and change  of 
circumstances document.
Ive considered that Mr W told our investigator that he didnt have time to read the 
documents properly.  But, from what he said, I think this was due to his child being at the 
dealers with him - rather than anything the dealer did.
I appreciate that signing the agreement and the other form doesnt tell the whole story. But, 
thinking about everything, I havent seen enough to make me think its likely Mr W was told 
the deal he was getting was 0% APR. So it follows that Im satisfied the credit agreement  
wasnt misrepresented  to Mr W.
Ive also thought about what  Mr W said about  seeing  the 0% APR deal on the dealers 
website. I cant see the website from the time Mr W viewed  it. But, it appears there is a 
similar deal currently running  and this explains it only applies to new cars. Looking at used  
cars on the site, these  are advertised with a higher APR. On balance, as Mr W ended up 
with a used car, I dont  think its likely  he saw an advert  for credit with 0% APR on the 
specific car he acquired. So, this doesnt  change my opinion.
Finally, I know  Mr W is unhappy the dealer withdrew  its original offer. But, in its final 
response letter Black Horse made it clear this offer was directly from the dealer  not from 
Black Horse.  So I havent considered this further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6553212