K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants to reject the vehicle.
background
Mr F tells us he acquired his vehicle,  in September 2017, from a dealer Ill call C. He says 
that a little over a year later he noticed  that the paintwork had been damaged by bird 
droppings. He describes the lacquer and paintwork being eaten through  to the primer. He 
says he took this up with the manufacturer, a company Ill call N, but was advised  it wasnt  
a manufacturing  defect and that it wasnt covered under the vehicle warranty.  So, in 
November 2018  he complained to this service. Mr F says he subsequently paid privately  for 
some repairs  to the bonnet in April 2019.  And in May 2019, in pursuance of his complaint, he 
provided two independent inspection  reports which he says both indicate  this type of 
damage shouldnt  have happened with a vehicle of this age.
Motonovo told us that the vehicle was subject to a manufacturers warranty  and that 
paintwork is covered. It suggested that Mr F should  take the matter up with N.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 October  2019 in which  I indicated  my 
intention to uphold  the complaint. Since then Ive had a reply  from both parties. Motonovo 
said that it didnt  agree with the provisional  decision. It said that as the independent engineer  
had said it was a manufacturing issue it felt that neither it nor C should be responsible  for the 
cost of repairs. Mr F said hed still rather reject the vehicle  and was concerned  any repairs 
wouldnt be up to factory standard.
I thank both parties for their comments.  Ill deal with the points raised  in my final decision 
which is set out below. But as no new information  has been  provided Im not minded to 
change my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr F has experienced problems with this vehicle. I can understand his concern 
that the issues hes identified are going  to have a serious detrimental effect on the value of 
the vehicle if corrective action isnt taken.
Mr Fs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Briefly summarised, this states that theres  an implied condition in every contract to supply 
goods that they will be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And satisfactory quality is 
defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. This includes 
an element of durability  or, put another way, a requirement that goods will last a reasonable 
length of time.
Ref: DRN67213992Mr F acquired this vehicle at a cost price of over £30,000 and the recorded  mileage at the 
time of supply was 200 miles. I think this means  it can be considered for the purposes of this 
complaint as essentially a new vehicle.
After hed had the vehicle  just over a year Mr F noticed some flaking with the paintwork and 
it seems he took it to a body repair specialist Ill call S. Although  Ive not seen any 
documentation about this visit, it seems that upon  receiving Mr Fs complaint N contacted  S. 
And in an email dated September  2018, it (N) advised Mr F that S had told it that the 
damage was due to bird droppings. As such,  N said it wasnt  considered  a manufacturing  
fault and it wouldnt  cover the costs of repairs.
In April 2019, whilst the vehicle was in for work on unrelated issues,  Mr F had S respray the 
bonnet but this apparently  still left the roof in need  of repairs. Im not able to award the cost 
of the respray as the invoice is made  out in the name of a company - and not to Mr F 
personally. I accept that it was for personal  reasons that Mr F had the invoice made out to 
his private company - but as that company is not the complainant here, Im unable  to make  
any award.
It seems  Mr F was again  told that the vehicle warranty wouldnt cover the roof repair. 
Consequently, he had the vehicle  examined  by two independent inspectors. The first of 
these, A, a firm, gave only a brief report which said the vehicle had been damaged by bird 
lime. The report described the paintwork  as soft and said the quality all over the vehicle was 
very poor.
A further  report was prepared by a company Ill refer to asM. This report  made several
findings including:
The paintwork on this vehicle within  the affected areas has suffered a corrosive  and 
damaging effect  on the paintwork. This has, in my opinion, caused a deterioration and 
sustainability of the lacquer to effectively and efficiently  protect  the paint surface.
The report  went on to conclude: 
my final conclusion is that this problem has arisen due to a problem with the lacquer  and /or 
its application to the vehicle. This therefore would point to the problem being caused  by 
substandard material being used  during  the paint process and or its application. On this 
basis I believe it would be a genuine warranty claim upon the vehicle manufacturers. 
As well as the above reports Ive looked at photos  of the vehicle,  and a more recent video 
from early July 2019, and theres clearly evidence of damage. There  doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that the damage has been  caused by bird droppings as both N and MotoNovo  have  
accepted this. 
In its latest reply MotoNovo has referred  me to Ms conclusions  and suggests  it (MotoNovo)  
shouldnt be liable as M has indicated it was a manufacturing fault covered by warranty.
I dont accept this line of reasoning and Ill explain why. Whether or not the vehicle is 
covered by warranty doesnt affect whether it was of satisfactory  quality when supplied  to Mr 
F. A warranty can increase the protection a consumer  has but it cant  reduce statutory rights. 
And even  if a warranty is in force it doesnt  mean  that CRA rights  arent  also available.
Ref: DRN67213993In determining whether  goods are of satisfactory  quality the CRA makes  reference to various 
aspects which are, in appropriate cases, to be taken into consideration. These include 
appearance and finish and durability.
A motor vehicle will typically be exposed  to the elements for large periods of its active life. It 
will be driven in open air conditions  and will often be parked outdoors. As such  it will be 
subject to the vagaries of the weather  and other  natural occurrences such  as bird droppings. 
All this is entirely foreseeable  and its therefore  a reasonable expectation that it should  be 
able to withstand such factors. And I dont think any reasonable person would consider it to 
be satisfactory if the paintwork of what was essentially a new vehicle should suffer such  
serious deterioration in a relatively short time. Its reasonable  to expect that paintwork will, 
subject to routine  maintenance,  retain a satisfactory standard  for several  years. The 
inference to be drawn from the statements of both N and MotoNovo - that vehicles should  
not be resistant to bird droppings - is to my mind of no merit. And a recent comment  from 
MotoNovo - that the damage this vehicle has suffered  should  be considered only to be 
cosmetic - is not acceptable. Mr F has an obligation to maintain the vehicle in good 
condition as part of the terms of the finance agreement.  I doubt  - if he was to return the 
vehicle at the end of the agreement in its present condition - that MotoNovo would be happy  
to say he had fulfilled this obligation.
Both independent reports  show that the lacquer failed to protect the paintwork to the extent 
that should normally be expected. It follows that if it was a manufacturing  fault - which  I think  
is the most  likely explanation - it mustve been  present at the point of supply to Mr F. As the 
vehicle was supplied  to Mr F with only 200 miles  covered - and irrespective of whether it was 
a manufacturing  fault - the defect is such that it meant the vehicle wasnt sufficiently durable  
so as to be considered of satisfactory  quality.  So MotoNovo, as the supplier, is liable to Mr F 
for the quality of the vehicle. 
Im aware that MotoNovo  has queried how long the bird droppings  were  allowed to remain  
on the vehicle  before being removed. And it commented that Mr F had a duty of care to 
maintain the vehicle. Ive not been supplied with any information  to show  that Mr F has 
neglected the vehicle. Indeed, Id say the opposite is true. The evidence Ive seen suggests 
that Mr F has been aware of the issue  from the time it became apparent and has sought the 
assistance of both N and MotoNovo to resolve  it. And hes even paid privately  for some  
repairs. MotoNovo declined to assist as long ago as December 2018. So I dont think  it has 
any grounds to complain if theres  been any further deterioration - due to this defect - in the 
condition of the vehicle since then.
Although Mr F now wishes to reject the vehicle, Ive got to take into account that MotoNovo 
should be given  the chance  to repair the vehicle.  Im also aware  from recent communications  
that it objects to being required  to pay for the respraying of the entire vehicle. Estimates 
show this might cost around £10,000.
Both parties  in their replies to my provisional decision made comments relating  to the extent 
of the repairs  and the standard  to which they should  be carried  out. And MotoNovo said it 
didnt think it fair that it should have to pay for a complete respray. The estimated cost of this 
is about £10,000. But I want to make clear  Ive never said I think  MotoNovo should  be 
responsible for respraying the whole vehicle.
Ref: DRN67213994The obligation imposed by the CRA on the supplier of goods which are not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied,  is to repair the goods so that they conform to contract  after the 
repairs. That is to say the repairs must be sufficient to restore the goods  to being of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  in this case that requires a complete respray  is not for me to 
determine. It would be for MotoNovo to instruct whichever contractor it employs,  to use their 
professional skills  and carry out only the required amount of work necessary to achieve this 
standard. And if the repairs  fail to meet that standard then a further opportunity  for Mr F to 
reject the vehicle would almost certainly arise.
I should also explain that - in line with the provisions  of the CRA  - if MotoNovo considers  the 
cost of any necessary  repairs to be disproportionate to the value of the vehicle it can instead 
choose to allow Mr F to reject the vehicle and cancel  the agreement. 
In summary,  I dont think this vehicle  was of satisfactory quality when  supplied  due to the 
paintwork/lacquer not being of sufficient  durability.  This has resulted in damage  to the 
vehicle and Mr F is entitled to have  that repaired.  Im therefore upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im upholding this complaint. I intend to require  FirstRand  Bank 
Limited trading  as MotoNovo  Finance  to take the following action: 
Subject to the proviso* which is detailed below;
1.Make  arrangements for any lacquer/paintwork repairs arising from bird droppings 
damage to be carried  out;
2.Refund £250 being the cost of  Ms diagnostic report together  with simple interest at 
8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement;
3.Refund or waive any payments made  or due to be made by Mr F which  arise  during 
the period the vehicle is unavailable to him as a result of arrangements made under 
1. above. 
* If FirstRand Bank trading as MotoNovo considers the costs of repairs ordered under 1 
above to be disproportionate to the value of the vehicle it may - instead  of complying with 
this requirement - end the agreement and accept  rejection of the vehicle. In which  case I 
would require it to take the following action:
4.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr F to pay from the date of termination; 
This is subject to all payments due up to that date having been  made;
5.Refund any deposit paid by Mr F together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement;
6.Arrange to have  details of the agreement  removed  from Mr Fs credit files.
Ref: DRN67213995Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6721399