K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in June 2004.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in June 2004. The PPI was sold to her when she applied  for a store 
card by filling in a leaflet  while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs B says she wasnt given an option of having  the store card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  a choice, she would have declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional  information  Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Bs credit agreement. This shows Mrs B was given  
the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under  the section Protecting your Account   
Mrs B was asked to sign if she wanted  the PPI. Looking at Ms Bs credit agreement, I can 
see she signed next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant premium  until further 
notice.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Mrs B would have understood 
the PPI, was optional.  And I dont think she would have signed  for the cover  if she didnt 
want to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs B chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Ref: DRN62716182Mrs B has told us she wouldnt have  received any sick pay from her employer if she was too 
unwell to work. Shes also told us that she had some savings.
Having thought about what  Mrs B has said about  her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means she wouldnt have  found the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any statutory  sick pay Mrs B would have received from her employer 
and would have  paid out for longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs B was 
ever made redundant and would have  enabled  her to use her savings for any other  financial 
responsibilities she may have had.
So overall, I think Mrs B could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6271618