K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr B are unhappy that their home insurance claim for theft has been declined  by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G)  and that their insurance has been voided because  
of underinsurance.
background
In May 2018  Ms A and Mr B suffered a burglary at their home,  when a substantial  amount of 
items, including some  high value  jewellery  items, were stolen. They  had bought the policy  
though a price  comparison  website in March 2017.  It had contents cover  for £50,000 which  
included valuables and personal belongings up to £20,000. Outside  specified  items there 
was a single  article limit of £1,500.  They had bags and designer clothes specified of 
£10,000. On renewal in March  2018, Ms A and Mr B didnt seek  to increase  the cover.
L&G appointed loss adjusters who were concerned that Ms A and Mr B were substantially  
underinsured. In particular it was noted that Ms A and Mr B had bought a number of high 
value items  between March 2017 and March 2018,  including valuable  jewellery  and a couple  
of paintings. They were  asked to complete a value at risk (VAR) form so as to assess the 
total value of their contents. This came to a total of over £168,000. They completed a 
spreadsheet setting  out their claim which was for a total of just over £34,000, including  
£21,600 for jewellery and watches, £10,500 for clothes and £2,000 for luggage.
L&G said that Ms A and Mr B were substantially  underinsured. The maximum value it would 
have insured under the policy would  have been  £100,000, including  £6,000 for personal 
possessions and £20,000 for specified  personal possessions. One painting alone  was 
estimated at £40,000.  In light of that, as it wouldnt have renewed  the insurance  had it known  
the true value  at risk, it voided the policy back to the March 2018 renewal. It refunded the 
premiums as it thought  that Ms A and Mr B had acted  carelessly rather  than deliberately.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that L&G had acted reasonably. He said 
Ms A and Mr B had failed to disclose  the big increase in the value of their contents at 
renewal and had claimed  for several  items  that had been bought after March  2017. 
Ms A and Mr B had already complained  that the broker hadnt  asked  them proper questions 
when buying the policy or on renewal. Specifically they said they only had to disclose the 
amount of cover they needed  rather than the value of all their contents. This complaint 
against the broker has already been  considered by an ombudsman at this service. She 
pointed out that the Statement of Insurance, which Ms A and Mr B were asked to check on 
renewal, said the present day replacement value  of all their contents was up to £50,000  
including £20,000  of valuables and personal belongings. She didnt think  the policy had been 
mis-sold.
Ms A and Mr B disagreed  with the investigators  view. They pointed out that their claim didnt 
include any of the post March 2017 purchases. They said that in the VAR list they disclosed  
watches which werent in the house  at the time,  and an engagement  ring which  was out of 
the house for re-sizing and wasnt returned  to the home until later.  Also they said that the 
painting was bought for a charitable donation so wasnt worth the value put on it. And 
another painting  was a gift and they didnt know the value  of it until they were  asked  for 
receipts.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN68110942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A and Mr B said that the reason for not disclosing their substantial purchases  between 
March 2017 and March 2018 was because they had the cover  for what they wanted at the 
time of buying the policy. When it came up for renewal they didnt think  they needed to 
declare those purchases as they didnt  require cover for them.  L&G has made it clear that 
the policy was voided at renewal because of the substantial increase in the full contents 
value.
This issue was gone into when  it was considered by this service  in respect of 
Ms A and Mr Bs complaint against the broker. At that time the ombudsman  specifically  
found that, when buying  the policy they were asked:
How much would it cost to replace the entire  contents of your home?
and then How much cover do you need?
The ombudsman said she thought it should have been clear that they needed to insure their 
contents for their full replacement value.
Ms A and Mr B said that they werent  asked about  the replacement  value of all their contents  
on renewal. But the renewal document did say:
Please check the enclosed Statement of Insurance and let us know as soon as possible if
you need to make a change to your cover or if your details are incorrect  or missing. Failure
to do so may result in your insurance  being cancelled or a claim not being paid.
And the Statement  of Insurance said the present  day replacement  value of all their contents  
was up to £50,000 including £20,000 of valuables and personal belongings.
So I think Ms A and Mr B should have checked on renewal  that they were fully covered. I 
think they would have known, in light of their recent purchases that they were not. I dont 
think it likely  that in view of the nature of those purchases/gifts that they would have decided  
to leave them uninsured. 
The VAR form was completed by Ms A and Mr B and sent to the loss adjuster. I cant see 
any evidence from the files that they mentioned items being  out of the home. But if valuables 
were temporarily out of the home they would  still have been covered under  personal 
possessions, so it wouldnt be surprising  if they were told to declare them. The total figure for 
valuables was £99,000, substantially over the £20,000 limit L&G would have been prepared  
to insure. With regard to the two paintings, it was for Ms A and Mr B to ensure they knew of 
their value. In particular one was by a famous recognised artist and they would  have known 
it had some value. And the total VAR was over £168,000  against  L&Gs  maximum cover  
available of £100,000.
Im satisfied that, on renewal of the policy Ms A and Mr B should have disclosed the full 
updated value  of their contents. As our investigator  has pointed out,the  Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 applies  here.  This puts a duty on the 
Ref: DRN68110943consumer both at the time of buying  a policy and on any subsequent  renewal, to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. I think that in this case Ms A and Mr B 
didnt take reasonable care, which under  the Act is a qualifying misrepresentation.
The Act sets out the remedy available to the insurer in the light of a qualifying  
misrepresentation:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms, 
the insurer may avoid  the contract and refuse  all claims, but must  return the premiums paid.
Having considered evidence from the underwriter of the policy, Im satisfied that had Ms A 
and Mr B complied with their duty and disclosed the true value of their contents on renewal, 
L&G wouldnt have entered into the contract. So it was entitled to void the policy  from 
renewal. It returned  the premiums paid so it has fairly exercised the remedy  available  to it.
Im sorry  if this has caused difficulty to Ms A and Mr B in getting alternative insurance  cover,  
but I think in the circumstances of this case L&G has acted  reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6811094