K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of a private medical insurance 
claim. 
background
Mr L asked Aviva to authorise a consultation with a gastroenterologist or hepatologist. He 
explained his GP had carried out some tests  on his liver and there had been an abnormal 
result. 
Aviva asked Mr L how many units of alcohol he drank per week.  Mr L questioned why Aviva 
wanted to know  this. Aviva explained  the policy had an exclusion for alcohol abuse, so if his 
illness were found  to be related to alcohol then the claim wouldnt be covered. Mr L refused 
to say how many units of alcohol he drank per week. Aviva eventually authorised the initial  
consultation, but said it would need to see a report from his consultant before it authorised 
any further treatment, to make sure the claim was covered. 
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought  a complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 October  2019.  My provisional  findings were:
The policy says:
We do not cover  treatment for addictions (such  as alcohol addiction or drug 
addiction) or substance abuse  (such  as alcohol abuse or solvent  abuse), or treatment 
of any illness  or injury needed  directly or indirectly as a result of any such abuse  or 
addiction.
Ive listened to Mr Ls conversations with Aviva. Having done  so, I think  Aviva gave him 
misleading information. Ill explain why.
Initially, Mr L was told by Aviva that his claim wouldnt be covered if investigations showed 
the problem with his liver was alcohol-related. That wasnt  correct. A claim doesnt  
necessarily fall under the exclusion because an illness is in some way related to alcohol - it 
only falls under the exclusion if the illness is a result  of alcohol abuse or addiction. I 
appreciate an alcohol-related illness may be an indication of alcohol abuse or addiction,  but 
this on its own wouldnt be enough  to turn down the claim.  
After Mr L asked to speak to someone else, he was again told incorrectly  that if his 
consultant decided the problem related  to alcohol in some way, there would be no cover 
going forward. However, after further questioning, Aviva confirmed the correct
exclusion wording.  
Mr L then quite reasonably asked Aviva  what it meant by alcohol abuse. He was told the 
NHS recommended alcohol limit was 14 units a week, and so abuse would be more than 
that. 
I dont know if it was the call handlers own opinion that alcohol abuse meant drinking  more  
than the NHSs recommended 14 units a week, or if this is Avivas opinion. Either  way, I 
disagree. The policy doesnt define whats meant by alcohol  abuse,  so this is subjective.
Ref: DRN64745152Ive looked at what the NHS says about alcohol misuse (it seems  reasonable to liken 
misuse to abuse),  and it says this is when someone drinks in a way thats harmful,  or when 
someone is dependent on alcohol.  And to keep health risks from alcohol to a low level,  both 
men and women are advised not to regularly drink more than 14 units a week.  
Just because someone exceeds  the recommended 14 units of alcohol per week,  that alone 
doesnt necessarily  mean  theyre drinking in a way thats harmful, or that theyre  dependent 
on alcohol. I think this would depend  on the individuals circumstances, and crucially the 
opinion of their doctors. 
In the end, Mr L decided not to go ahead with the consultation. He was correctly advised  by 
Aviva that hed need to pay an excess if he made  a claim for the consultation.  However, he 
was concerned that if he paid the excess,  Aviva may then turn down  a claim for further 
treatment if the consultant  found  that his abnormal liver reading was related to alcohol. 
I accept that Aviva couldnt reassure Mr L that it would cover any future  treatment that may 
be recommended  by his consultant. I think it was reasonable  for Aviva to say that it would 
need to consider any information provided  by his consultant before making a claims 
decision. 
However, I think the misleading information  given to Mr L on how the alcohol  exclusion 
would be applied, put him off going  ahead with the private treatment.  He was under the 
mistaken impression as a result of what he was told by Aviva, that his claim would be 
declined if the problem with his liver was found  to be related to alcohol. As Ive explained,  
that wouldnt necessarily  be the case.
As I understand it, Mr L has had the consultation under the NHS, so doesnt  need the private  
treatment anymore. Instead, he wants Aviva to refund him the premium he paid for the policy 
year. I dont think this would be reasonable. If Mr L had made  a valid claim under the policy  
in that year,  Aviva would have been required to pay it. 
However, I do think Aviva ought  to pay Mr L some compensation to recognise that it gave 
him misleading information,  and I think this ultimately put him off making a claim. In the 
circumstances, I think  £200  compensation would be a fair reflection of the inconvenience 
Mr L was caused  as a result.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wanted to make.  
Mr L confirmed he accepted my findings. 
Aviva responded to say it didnt have any further comments  to make.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, as neither party had any further 
comments to make,  Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld  and for the same reasons 
expressed in my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN64745153my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr L 
£200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6474515