K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card.
background
Mrs R took out a store card in February  2002  by completing a leaflet in store.  At the same  
time she was sold a PPI policy to cover her card repayments if she couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Rs complaint should  be upheld because  Mrs R wasnt working 
continuously for six months  at the time when the policy was sold and thought this meant she 
wouldnt be able to claim for one of the primary benefits of the policy  unemployment cover. 
FICL disagree. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
FICL were under a duty to provide Mrs R with information on PPI in a clear, fair and non-
misleading way so she could make  an informed choice about whether or not she wanted to 
take PPI.
I dont think FICL did give Mrs R clear enough  information about what  was excluded under 
the policy  in particular the unemployment  exclusions. I think  this because in order to have 
a successful unemployment claim under the policy Mrs R would have to be in continuous 
work for 6 months immediately before your employment ended.  
Mrs R has provided us with information  from the HMRC records  which show that when she 
took out the policy and the period following this she had a number of different employers for 
a few months at a time.  And although I cant say exactly when she started  each job I think  it 
unlikely she wouldve been in continuous work for six months at a time. 
So I dont  think she wouldve been able to benefit  under  the unemployment cover provided 
by the policy.  And I dont  think  Mrs R wouldve agreed to take a policy where  she would be 
paying for something that she couldnt benefit  from. 
I cant see anywhere on the application  form where it explains the policy  exclusions.  And I 
dont think expecting Mrs R to read the full policy document  to find out about this exclusion in 
particular is providing  information in a clear or fair way. 
So I dont  think FICL  did give clear enough  information to Mrs R on the unemployment 
exclusions of the policy. I think if Mrs R had understood  this information she wouldnt have 
agreed to take it. 
Ref: DRN69982872As a consequence I think Mrs R has lost out as a result of FICLs failings in this case.
what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs R would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs R owes  and what  she would  
have owed.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs R 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs R 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 15% a 
year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs R what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs R a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  and direct it pays the fair compensation  outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6998287