K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Miss L complain about  the sales in 1990  and 1991 of two mortgage endowment 
policies. Reliance Life Limited is responsible  for the sales. Mr W and Miss L say the policies 
were mis-sold for a number of reasons. I think it fair to say the main reasons were that they 
say they were not told about the risks involved, which  were  too high.
As redress they want any loss identified by the regulators  approach to these cases.
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaints. In summary, it said it thought the policies were  
suitable. It said Mr W and Miss L were able to take the degree of risk presented  by the 
policies. Unhappy with that Mr W and Miss L, through their representative,  came  to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the file. She thought that the policies  presented too high a 
level of risk for Mr W and Miss L. She thought the complaint should  be upheld  and redress  
as set down by the regulator paid. She also thought that, had they been properly advised  
and understood  what  they were doing,  Mr W and Miss L would not have taken  out these 
policies.
Mr W and Miss Ls representative agreed. The business didnt. It said that it still thought that 
the policies were suitable. It thought  Mr W and Miss L were  in a position  to take the risks 
involved. In particular it said:
it didnt agree that a low start policy was more  risky. In summary, it said that the overall 
greater premiums paid in reduced  the level of risk. In addition, lower initial costs reduced 
the risks of financial difficulties. 
Mr W and Miss Ls recollections may not be reliable.
it queried whether  Miss W was an eligible complainant.
As the parties cant  agree I have been  asked  to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint.
I will now explain why. I have read all the arguments  but will only refer to those I think 
directly relevant to whether the complaint should be upheld. I dont think  the policies sold 
had a level of risk Mr W and Miss L would  have taken had they properly  understood what  
they were doing  or been properly advised. The policies, invested  in a managed fund and an 
equity fund, did not, in my view present a low level of risk. The risks involved were real and 
could have been unlimited. As the adjudicator said the fact that one policy  was low start only 
added to the risks involved.
In 1990 average  earnings were  £13,681 (source o.n.s.). Mr W and Miss L were  on lower  
rather than higher incomes (£12,000  and £3,840  respectively). They were first time buyers 
and appear to have  had had little other financial  experience other than payments  made  by 
Mr W into a pension plan. 
Ref: DRN63587522In 1990 they were advised to take out a low start unit linked endowment policy. The policy 
started on 23 January  1990 over a 25 year term. The monthly  premium  started  at £34 per 
month rising  by 10% each year for 10 years to £67. It was invested, after costs, in a 
managed fund. The target value of the policy was £37,000 and it was surrendered  in 
October 2002 for £7,017.
In September  1991  Mr W and Miss L sought  advice again as they were increasing their 
mortgage by £6,000.  Mr W and Miss Ls jobs were the same  but now Mr W is recorded as 
earning £16,835 a year (above average which was then £14,804)  and Miss L £5,200. It has 
also been noted that Miss L had a 10 year unit linked endowment plan had been taken out in 
1988. The policy had a sum assured of £3,400 and a monthly premium of £20.
They were  advised  to take out a level premium unit linked endowment policy over a 24 year 
term. The policy started in December 1991  and the target value £6,000.  Premiums were  
invested into the equity fund. The policy was surrendered in January 2001 for £1,202.
I suspect that, as was common, a low start policy was advised in order to save on costs. 
However in the long term it is not clear whether any short term savings when set against 
increased risk would have  amounted to good advice. Although not particularly material, I 
disagree with the business about whether a low start policy  presents a higher risk than a 
level term one. The higher premiums paid overall will be throughout the length of the term 
of the policy. That means  a proportion will be paid in late in the term with little opportunity  
to grow. Also I am not aware  that Mr L and Miss W agreed to paying  more or entered  into 
that arrangement  with any proper degree  of understanding.
As regards  Mr L and Miss Ws recollections  we of course take into account  that any 
unsupported evidence  from either party will likely be affected by the passage of time. That 
applies to business assertions about what may or may not have  happened  at the time of 
the sale as well as the testimony  of the consumers. That is exactly why we rely more on 
documentary evidence  in making decisions.
Mr L and Miss W were  joint parties to the original sale.  Although Miss W assigned  her 
interest to Mr L it seems to me that doesnt stop her being an eligible complainant.  In any 
event her testimony from the time is no more  or less helpful  than any other. I cant  see 
how it makes  any difference to the business in any event or the merits of the complaint.
At the time it is likely Mr W and Miss L would have been able to borrow at least £40,000, 
less than they actually did. Therefore it would seem  cost was unlikely to have been an 
issue (although  of course any savings would have been welcome).
In 1991 a level premium  policy  was advised but this time premiums were  invested into an 
equity fund. Investment  into this type of fund like the managed fund can be subject to big 
changes in value over short periods. If there was a significant fall in value near the maturity 
date, there  would be little time to make  up any shortfall.
It has long been the view of this service that consumers such as Mr W and Miss L were 
entitled to suitable  advice which they could accept  without  question.  Of course it is 
possible that documentation  from the time might have explained the risks. If Mr W and 
Miss L had received, read and appreciated what the documentation said about risk they 
might have understood the position without further help. 
But, given the evidence about their circumstances both in 1990  and 1991,  I would not 
have expected either Mr W or Miss L to have a great  degree of financial knowledge and as 
Ref: DRN63587523such I think it is likely  that they would have relied heavily on the advice provided to them  at 
the time of the sale.
Also of course being aware in general terms of a risk is not the same as being  properly 
aware of the consequences of that risk, or indeed, being suited to and being prepared  to 
take that risk.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct that Reliance Life Limited calculate and pay redress as set 
out below.
The financial  regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA),  has laid down a standard 
approach for calculating compensation in cases like this in its guidance, Handling 
Mortgage Endowment  Complaints" (sometimes referred to as an RU89  calculation). 
The guidance provides that Mr W and Miss L are entitled to be put in the position they would 
have been in, so far as is possible, had Reliance not recommended  these policies. 
In other words, in this case,  in the position they would have been in had both of the 
mortgages arranged  in 1990  and 1991  been  arranged on a repayment basis instead.
Reliance should pay Mr W and Miss L the total of A + B where:
A The loss (if any) identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance  with the 
FSAs guidance  Handling Mortgage Endowment  Complaints on each policy  to the 
date of surrender  using the actual  surrender value paid.
B Interest on any loss identified at part A from the surrender date to the date of 
calculation. Interest  is to be calculated  at 8% simple per year.
Separate calculations must be carried  out for each policy. If the business  is advised to 
deduct tax from any interest paid it may do so. But if it does it must provide a tax deduction 
certificate to allow any claim to be made for a refund  of that tax. 
This award  must be paid within 28 days of Mr W and Miss L accepting this decision.  If it is 
not then interest  at 8% simple must be added to the award from the date of this decision to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6358752