K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain on behalf of W about The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance
Society Limiteds (NFU)  actions  in relation to their claim for commercial legal expenses
insurance.
Where I refer to NFU, this includes  their agents and claims handlers. 
Although a representative has been  involved on behalf of W, for ease of reading, Ill mostly
refer to all submissions as having  come  from Mr H.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a
brief summary here. Following a contract for the sale of some livestock a dispute arose
between Mr H and the third party involved. This resulted in a claim and counterclaim.
Mr H had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by NFU.
The claim was accepted and it was agreed that J a solicitors firm would represent Mr H
under the terms  of the policy. J accepted NFUs terms of appointment and an hourly  rate
was agreed.
The case  progressed but shortly before trial J advised that the prospects of success  had
fallen below that required by the policy. It was then agreed that the claim would be settled  in
line with a previous  Part 36 Offer  that had been  made.
NFU paid the third partys legal costs which were  around £31,500. J submitted their costs to
NFU for assessment. Ultimately NFU declined to meet Js costs. They  say that J had broken
the terms of appointment and as such they have no liability  for the costs.  They  also had
concerns that some  of the information  initially provided by Mr H, specifically some  vets
notes, had been redacted.
Mr H complained to NFU.  He was unhappy that they wouldnt meet Js costs which he thinks
they ought to under  the policy.  And he was concerned that if NFU dont pay, then he will be
liable for the legal bill.
NFU maintained their position and so the matter was referred  to our service. One of our
investigators didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded NFU had acted
fairly in the circumstances. Mr H doesnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman  to
review the complaint.
Ive previously issued  two provisional decisions. One dated 12 December  2019  and the other 
dated 7 January 2020. Extracts of these decisions are included below and form part of this 
final decision. Now both parties have had the opportunity to respond to the provisional  
decisions (PD), I can go ahead  with my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the outcome Ive previously described.  Let me explain why. 
Ref: DRN67004512NFU didnt challenge my finding (explained in the attached PD)  that Im not currently 
persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  to fairly  conclude  that Mr H intentionally 
misrepresented, misdescribed or withheld relevant material to the insurance. Mr H, through  
his representative,  welcomed that finding. So I feel no need to comment further  on that point. 
The issue  still in dispute is whether  or not it is fair for NFU to decline to consider any of Js 
costs. Since  my second  provisional decision there has been further correspondence 
between J and our service. J have presented their case that they havent breached the terms 
of appointment  between  them and NFU. They also say there is no blanket  term in either the 
policy or the contract between NFU and J, which  entitles NFU to refuse to make any 
payment / accept any liability (in full or part) by reason of any terms being  breached,  short of 
fraud. 
I understand Ws intention is to reject  my decision, which  is their right.  But we dont 
necessarily look at dispute in the same way that a court  might. I consider (amongst other 
factors) law, regulations  and good  industry practice, but Im not bound  by them. And I must 
come to an outcome  that I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
And whilst I wont  be going line by line through the contract between  NFU and J it does  
include two particularly relevant provisions that I find persuasive.  J were obliged to inform 
NFU before  any offers of settlement are made,  accepted or declined  and also when any 
event occurs which could  have an impact on the cover we [NFU] are providing  and/or costs 
and expenses. 
There is strong evidence  in the form of a court order which  records that a Part 36 offer was 
made by the other side in the proceedings in August 2016. J themselves accept that this 
wasnt shared with NFU at the time. NFU say they werent aware  of this until April 2017. 
NFUs position is that they would have expected to have been  informed of this under both 
the above terms. They further  said that Had [NFU] been informed of concerns and previous 
offers at an earlier stage  then [NFU] could have insisted on a counsels opinion  which  
probably would have benefitted both the customer and [NFU].
J say that they never made accepted  or declined the offer and so that term isnt applicable. 
Im not persuaded by that argument. I accept  that J never responded to the offer but in doing 
so I think in essence it was rejected. And in any case, I think  that second  term (quoted  
above), makes clear  that NFU want to be made  aware of significant  developments of the 
legal case  which I think would include  a Part 36 offer being made. 
J further argue that other correspondence between them and NFU from the time suggests 
that NFU would have  followed  their guidance  in relation to acceptance of an offer or any 
change in the prospects of success.  And that they wouldnt have insisted on a counsels 
opinion  which they say would have  been  unlikely to conclude there was a drop in 
prospects of success.  Ive considered this, but by not being  made  aware of the offer, NFU 
were denied the opportunity to make that decision. And looking  at all the circumstances, 
overall, I think its more likely  than not that NFUs position and ability to manage the claim 
was prejudiced by J. 
Given that NFU have already paid out over £30,000 in adverse costs  that W would otherwise 
have been liable for, I dont think it would be fair, in these circumstances, to ask them to 
meet Js costs too (or a proportion of them).  
Ref: DRN67004513J have indicated that they will pursue Mr H for their costs in the event of the complaint not 
being upheld.  And they have concerns that my decision  will limit Mr Hs options. I dont agree 
that this is the case. If Mr H feels that NFU not settling the claim is as a result  of negligence 
by J, then he could  raise this with J and potentially seek the assistance  of the legal 
ombudsman. Also, if rejected, my decision wont be legally binding and Mr H could continue 
his dispute with NFU through  other means  such as the courts.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in the attached provisional decisions,  my final decision is 
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Extract from provisional decision  dated 7 January 2020
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As well as being Mr Hs solicitor, J are also his representative  for this complaint.  In a recent email  to 
our service J said  it appears  that the allegations by NFU against J are largely irrelevant in terms of 
the decision to be made by FOS as you are quite right that it is a contractual  dispute between J and 
[NFU] as to what sums, if any, are payable to J under the policy and taking account  of the terms of 
appointment that dispute  can be dealt with in due course between [NFU]  and J and need not be a 
matter for FOS to consider further at this stage.
My provisional  decision  (quoted  above)  said that our service cant  investigate  a contract dispute 
between J and NFU.  But the terms of appointment are referenced in the policy documents and as 
such they form part of the contract of insurance. I dont agree that the terms are therefore irrelevant.  
Ref: DRN67004514So whilst consideration of the terms of appointment wont extend  to a determination as to a breach of 
contract, they are part of the wider circumstances  Ill consider to determine a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the complaint.  
So Ive considered  whether  it would be fair to tell NFU to meet  Js costs in all the circumstances. And 
for the same reasons  as above and on the basis of the evidence supplied  by NFU (and shared with J) 
I remain satisfied  that the position NFU are taking is fair. In the specific  circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think it would  be fair to expect NFU to meet Js costs in addition  to the adverse  
costs theyve already paid on behalf of W. 
If W remain unhappy with this, they can consider complaining about Js actions in this matter or can 
reject my decision (in which case it wont be legally  binding) and consider legal  action against NFU.
In NFUs final response to Ws complaint  they gave two reasons as to why they wouldnt meet Js 
costs. NFU made allegations  of professional  negligence  and breaches of the terms of appointment 
against J. But they also said Mr H had deliberately misrepresented his claim by redacting part of the 
vets records that he submitted and in doing so breached the terms and conditions of the policy. J 
have asked that I provide  further  clarity  on this point.
The terms  of Ws policy  say:
If you or anyone acting  for you:
1.Makes a claim which is fraudulent and/or intentionally exaggerated  and/or supported by a 
fraudulent declaration, statement or other device;  and/or
2.Intentionally misrepresents and/or  misdescribes  or withholds any material relevant  to this 
insurance;
We will not pay any part of your claim or any claim which  you have made
There are further potentially relevant conditions within the policy which state:
An Insured person  is required to send everything [NFU]  ask for, in writing; and give [NFU] full 
details of any claim  as soon  as possible and give [NFU] any information [NFU] need.
Im not currently persuaded  that there is sufficient evidence to fairly  conclude that Mr H intentionally  
misrepresented, misdescribed or withheld relevant material to the insurance. J have explained that 
the vets record in question are the notes put on the system by the vet after attending our clients  
business or prescribing  any treatment for the many animals on the farm. They are not specific to the 
herd which formed part of the dispute and are extensive and, largely, not in a format easily 
understood without guidance from a vet. 
I wouldnt expect Mr H to be aware of what specifically was required to progress  his legal claim. He 
provided the information he thought was relevant to J who were appointed under  the policy  to act on 
Ws behalf.  J as legal professionals are better placed to consider whether full unredacted records 
ought to have  been supplied. If the information Mr H had supplied was incomplete or insufficient, as a 
layperson, I think he reasonably could  have expected J to have asked  him about  this. I understand 
that NFU believe J not obtaining the unredacted records was a failing.  That again is part of the 
dispute between NFU and J and not something Ill comment on further. 
But for the reasons outlined above,  this doesnt change my thoughts on the overall outcome  of this 
complaint. NFU have  settled over £30,000 of costs that W would otherwise have been liable for. And 
whilst I might not agree that Mr H himself breached the terms of the policy, I think NFUs position  
overall is reasonable in the circumstances.  And Im not intending to tell them to do anything  further to 
resolve this complaint. 
Extract from  Provisional Decision dated 12 December 2019
Ref: DRN67004515Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ws policy  provides cover  for the type of dispute involved. But like all policies there are terms,  
conditions and limits on the cover provided. One of the conditions listed in Ws policy within the 
commercial legal expenses section says: 
The REPRESENTATIVE is required to co-operate fully with [NFU] at all times and will represent the 
INSURED PERSON according to [NFUs] standard terms of appointment
The term representative is given a specific definition  of The lawyer, accountant or other suitably  
qualified person,  who has been appointed to act for the INSURED PERSON  in accordance with the 
terms of this section of the policy. 
Conditions such as this are common in legal expenses insurance, and I dont think this condition is 
inherently unfair. NFU are setting out that for cover to be provided, the representative must  co-
operate and keep to the terms  of appointment. 
In the circumstances of this complaint J are the representatives  as they were  acting for Mr H under  
the policy,  having agreed to NFUs terms of appointment.  So cover is only available as long as J have 
complied with the condition listed above. And if that isnt the case, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for NFU to decline to meet their costs, provided they can show that their position  has 
been prejudiced by this. 
The standard  terms of appointment are a contract between NFU and J. And Im not able to make a 
finding as to whether or not that contract has been  breached. I can only consider the actions of NFU 
and whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
NFU have alleged a number of breaches of this contract.  These include  J failing to keep them 
informed of material changes  which  may affect  cover. And also failing to make  them aware that an 
offer of settlement has been  made, accepted or declined. Ive also seen evidence  that J are defending 
NFUs allegations and theyve explained why they believe theyve been compliant  with the terms of 
appointment. 
NFU have presented  evidence and explanations  to support their position. I have to consider whether 
NFU acted fairly and in line with the policy terms, taking account of all the circumstances.  And I think  
they have. If they havent  been updated as often  as they ought to have  been, then theyd have missed  
opportunities to seek further legal opinion  and consider their options.  Which  could have included 
either the removal of cover, or potentially settling the claim at an earlier stage  and avoiding further 
costs that were incurred. Overall Im satisfied that there is enough  evidence to fairly  conclude that 
NFUs position has been prejudiced by J. 
The crux of this complaint is the contract dispute between J and NFU  something our service  isnt 
able to investigate. And whilst it has been presented by Mr H, I can only make my findings in relation 
to Mr H as a representative  of W, which is the eligible complainant. 
Stepping back  and looking  at the complaint as a whole, under the policy NFU have settled over 
£30,000 worth of adverse  costs that W would otherwise  have been liable for. But they are disputing 
paying for Js costs for the reasons explained above, and presumably as they see J as responsible  for 
the adverse costs being payable. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair to 
expect NFU to meet  Js costs too. 
I appreciate that part of Mr Hs complaint was that he feels that NFU communicated poorly with J. But 
as the communication involved was between J and NFU and not Mr H himself, I dont think  this would  
have had an impact on him or W, so Im not recommending that NFU need  to do more in relation to 
the service provided.
Ref: DRN6700451