K820x#14Complaint
Mrs D complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited  (Amtrust) unreasonably declined a claim on 
her legal expenses  insurance policy. All references to Amtrust include its agents.  
Background
In 2015, Mrs D signed a contract  for the installation of some  external wall insulation at her 
home. Mrs Ds local council  was responsible  for overseeing the installation.  And the works 
were to be funded  by an energy company under a government scheme.  
Mrs D first raised  concerns  with the quality  of the installers workmanship during a meeting 
with a local councillor  in October 2015.  She says that the local council  subsequently  worked  
with her to try and resolve any snagging issues.  
In around May 2016, Mrs D found out that the energy company paying  for the works  had 
disassociated itself from the project  as it had concerns about the installers credentials. 
Mrs D was told this meant  her insulation would  now only be guaranteed for ten years, even  
though the contract shed signed said it would be guaranteed  for 25. She considered this to 
be a breach of contract.  
Mrs D continued to correspond with her local council about  her concerns, and in 2017  she 
instructed an independent surveyor to investigate the standard of the installation. 
The surveyor highlighted further issues which Mrs D says she hadnt  previously  been  aware  
of, some  of which raised questions about the safety  of her home. 
Mrs D raised a claim on her legal expenses cover  in 2018 after exhausting the local councils 
complaint process.  But Amtrust declined the claim.  It said the dispute had begun  before her 
policy started in January  2018. So it fell under the exclusion  for pre-existing disputes.   
Mrs D asked Amtrust  to reconsider.  She said her policy  had been  with the same insurer  for 
many years. She acknowledged raising  issues with the local council in 2015 but said these  
had since been  resolved.  She said the issues with the contract had only come  to light in 
May 2016. And shed only become aware  of the more significant issues with the installation 
in October 2017  when  she received  the independent surveyors report. Mrs D also said shed 
never received the full terms and conditions  for her legal  expenses cover. 
Amtrust discovered that Mrs D had taken out its legal expenses  cover in January 2016.  But it 
remained of the opinion that her dispute had started  before then.  It recognised that new 
issues with the installation had come to light more recently, but it felt that issues with the 
workmanship had been apparent since 2015.  And it thought the alleged breaches of contract  
predated Mrs Ds policy as well. It suggested that she contact her previous  insurer  instead. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint but didnt  uphold it. He felt the evidence  
showed that the snagging issues Mrs D first raised in October  2015  were still outstanding 
when she commissioned the independent report in 2017. So he felt Amtrust  had been able 
to show that the dispute started  before her policy began. And he noted that claims about 
contracts made before the policy started  werent covered either. As Mrs D didnt agree, I 
need to reach a final decision. 
Ref: DRN69041262My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
It is a common  requirement of legal expenses policies that any intended claim arises out of 
an event which occurs  during the period of insurance. In Mrs Ds case,  her policy  contains  a 
general exclusion, which applies to all sections of cover,  that says:
There is no cover where the insured incident began to start or had started before 
you bought this insurance. 
An insured incident is defined as:
the incident  or the first of a series  of incidents, which may lead to a claim under this 
insurance. Any actions,  incidents or events that are linked by cause or time shall be 
classed as one insured  incident... 
We dont think terms like this are unfair  in principle  because  insurance is generally intended 
to cover things that may or may not happen  in the future. So its reasonable for legal 
expenses insurers to exclude claims for things which started to happen before cover began. 
We dont always think its fair for a legal expenses insurer to decline a claim based  on a strict 
interpretation of an exclusion  like this though   for example,  if the policyholder could 
reasonably have thought  that a dispute  had been  resolved when their policy  started. So Ive 
thought carefully  about whether thats  the case here.   
Mrs Ds policy with Amtrust began in January 2016. The independent report  Mrs D provided 
to Amtrust included a background  section  which says she refused to sign off the works in 
May 2015 due to various outstanding workmanship related issues.  The report  also mentions 
that Mrs D raised a number of concerns  about the works during a meeting with her local 
councillor in October 2015. 
Mrs D says that these were just snagging issues which she subsequently worked with the 
local council  to resolve. As such she feels that the more significant issues  which  came  to 
light in 2017 should be treated as a new and separate  insured event. 
Its clear that some  remedial work was carried out as a result of Mrs Ds initial conversations 
with her local council.  But in her testimony to Amtrust, Mrs D said the very reason she 
commissioned the report in 2017 was due to her concerns over the various outstanding 
workmanship issues noted visually by ourselves  and which  we had tried to unsuccessfully 
have resolved with {the local council} and {the installer}. 
In addition to that, the independent  report says Mr and Mrs D continue  to experience  
numerous problems  following  completion  of the works including damage to their property. 
So its clear that Mrs Ds unsuccessful attempts to resolve these issues with the local council 
culminated in her commissioning the independent  report in 2017.  So I dont think any further 
issues identified in that report can be treated as a new insured event. 
I think its less clear  that the issues with Mrs Ds contract stem from events which  predated 
her policy.  The breaches Mrs D has alleged  all relate to the withdrawal of funding  by the 
Ref: DRN69041263energy company, which didnt happen  until May 2016. But the section  of cover this claim 
would fall under, consumer disputes, includes a condition that the contract must have 
been made after you first purchased this insurance. 
We dont think terms like this are inherently  unfair either, so long as theyre clearly  worded in 
the policy. In this case I think the wording was clear. Mrs D accepts that the contract she 
wants to dispute  was made before  her policy started. So even if I concluded that the general 
exclusion for pre-existing disputes didnt apply to the issues relating to Mrs Ds contract, they 
still wouldnt  meet the conditions  specific to the consumer disputes section of cover. 
I think Amtrust  has caused some confusion  on this particular point. In its correspondence  
with Mrs D, it also placed emphasis on the date the contract was breached.  This led to a 
back and forth about when that happened. As far as I can see from the terms of Mrs Ds 
policy, the date of the breach has no relevance.   
It could be that Amtrust  was exploring whether it was prepared  to make an exception to the 
policy conditions if it could  be satisfied  that the breaches happened after the policy started. 
Insurers are sometimes  prepared  to make such an exception if the policyholder  had 
unbroken cover with someone else at the time the contract was made. 
Amtrust ultimately agreed  to consider its position on this further  once Mrs D had raised the 
claim with her previous  insurer.  I think this was a reasonable approach  given that the terms 
of Mrs Ds current policy entitled  Amtrust to decline the claim outright. 
Mrs D says shes never received the full terms and conditions for her legal cover. Shes  sent 
us a copy of her policy summary,  which she says is the only information  shes been given. 
That explains that the policy doesnt cover  events that started  before  the policy began.  But it 
doesnt explain that to be able to claim in relation to a contract, it must have been  made  
before the policy started.  
Having thought carefully about this, I dont  think it affects the outcome of Mrs Ds complaint. 
The legal expenses  cover  was sold as an add on to a wider home insurance policy. And Ive 
seen nothing to indicate that Mrs D wouldnt have  gone ahead  with the policy if shed  known 
more about the requirements for legal  expenses claims about contracts. So I dont  think 
shes lost out as a result  of not seeing a copy of the full terms and conditions.   
There were some other things  Amtrust could have  got better here. It initially  assessed
Mrs Ds claim based on the wrong policy start date and later included another consumers 
name in the subject line of some correspondence. But ultimately,  Im satisfied that Amtrust 
has reached a fair decision  on Mrs Ds claim. So Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Amtrust  Europe 
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6904126