K820x#14complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt help when it fell behind  with 
repayments on its secured business loan. R is represented by its director,  who Ill call Mr S. 
Mr S wants  Lloyds  to reopen Rs loan account and allow  monthly loan repayments.
background
R took out a secured business loan in 2014.  The loan was used  for Rs property business. 
and was secured  by charges on three properties.  Mr S says R had financial problems from 
early 2018  when its tenants  were affected  by changes in the benefits system.  Mr S says 
Lloyds didnt allow R time to catch  up with the arrears.  He said the arrears  were paid by the 
end of July 2018 but Lloyds still demanded full repayment of the loan.
Mr S says Lloyds didnt offer help. It didnt communicate with him and closed the loan 
account without  notice. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Lloyds allowed R a reasonable  time to bring  its accounts up to date before taking action.  
It asked for the unauthorised borrowing on the accounts to be paid by the end of April 
and extended  this to May 2018. Lloyds  issued a formal demand  in July 2018.
while Lloyds had discussed the sale of a property with Mr S it hadnt said he had 
unlimited time to sell a property. Lloyds  letters  made it clear there was a deadline to 
reduce the loan balance.
the relationship  manager didnt stop communicating with Mr S. The account  was 
transferred to Lloyds  recoveries team.  
R didnt agree, so this complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Having considered what the parties  have said, I dont think Lloyds treated R unfairly. I should 
note here that when  considering whats fair, Ive taken into account  that this is a business 
loan secured on Rs business properties. 
Loan repayments were  made from a loan servicing  account. There  wasnt  always  enough 
money in the account for the loan repayments. This meant the account went  into 
unauthorised overdraft. Lloyds wrote  to R in August 2017 about  this. The account  was 
overdrawn from November 2017. Lloyds wrote to R a number of times  in late 2017  and early 
2018 about the unauthorised borrowing. 
In March 2018 Lloyds sent an action plan to R. This required, among other things,  that the 
account was in credit by May 2018 or formal  default proceedings would begin.
Ref: DRN61066582Lloyds sent formal demands in May 2018. It sent further formal  demands in July 2018 and 
transferred the accounts to its recoveries team. By this time,  the loan servicing account had 
been in unauthorised overdraft for about nine months and the amount of the unauthorised  
borrowing was increasing. 
I understand that Mr S intended  to sell one of Rs properties and use the money to reduce 
the borrowing. But Lloyds  didnt have to wait indefinitely for this to happen. Mr S says he 
made a payment to clear  the unauthorised borrowing at the end of July 2018.  I can see a 
payment of £8,000 was made. But by the time Mr S made  this payment, formal demands  
had been issued for the full loan amount  and the accounts had been transferred to the 
recoveries team.
Once the accounts were transferred to the recoveries team, it was responsible for 
communicating with R and Mr S. This is why Mr S no longer heard  from his relationship 
manager. This wasnt an error by Lloyds.
Mr S would like Rs accounts re-instated.  But I dont think  its reasonable to require Lloyds  to 
do this. I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly when it asked  for the unauthorised  borrowing to be 
repaid or, when  this didnt happen, sent final demands for the debt to be repaid.
Lloyds says its recoveries  team is in contact with Mr S and recovery action  has been paused  
to give him time to sell a property. In the circumstances, I dont think  its fair and reasonable 
for me to require  Lloyds to do anything more.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6106658