K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1988 and 
1995. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr C aware that the PPI policies were  optional and gain his consent 
before adding them to his mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time the policies 
were sold,  and there is limited information available from the time. But this isnt unusual as 
businesses arent  required to keep this information indefinitely. Halifax  has sent us a copy of 
the paperwork that is available.
Mr Cs first PPI policy started in 1988.  Halifax has provided a copy of Mr Cs mortgage 
application form from the time that has a section  about PPI. In this section  an option has 
been ticked to express  interest in the policy. This policy was cancelled  in 1992. 
Mr Cs second PPI policy started in 1995. Halifax has provided a copy of a separate 
application form for the policy  that has been  signed by Mr C to take it out.
With the above in mind  I think Halifax made  it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that he chose to take out the policies, although  I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policies to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr C has told us that he wouldnt have received any sick pay when he applied for his 
policies and could  have relied  on family and friends  for help if he was unable to make  his 
repayments. While Mr Cs Family and friends  would have wanted  to help their ability to 
would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time,  which  could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time he applied for the PPI polices 
he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  So I think the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the policies  - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Ref: DRN65771362Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about not needing two 
PPI policies to cover  his mortgage. But the first policy Mr C had started  in 1988 and was 
cancelled in 1992. The second policy started after this in 1995  and cancelled in 2003.  As 
Mr C was only covered by one policy at any time these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6577136