K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a store-card  PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ms store card account when she applied for the card in store.
The PPI was sold to Mrs M by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant  issues to take into account  are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
FICL needed to give Mrs M clear  information about the PPI before she agreed to take it. 
That included highlighting anything that could make it difficult for Mrs M to make a successful 
claim. 
Mrs M suffered from a pre-existing medical  condition at the point of sale. I think this is 
important because the policy she took out excluded cover for pre-existing  medical  
conditions. And from what Ive been told, Mrs Ms medical condition  has required ongoing 
treatment since it was diagnosed in 1997.  Shes  also told us that shes had to take time off 
work for issues relating to her condition.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think she would have been able to make a successful claim 
for an illness relating  to her condition. So I think FICL should have pointed out the exclusion 
to Mrs M and Ive not seen anything to suggest  it did this. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what its said about  Mrs M not 
mentioning her medical condition when she first raised her complaint. But having thought 
carefully about what Mrs M has said about her condition, and why she may not have thought  
to mention it earlier, Im persuaded that she did have a medical  condition  that existed prior to 
the date of this sale. And I dont think that her failure  to mention it when she first raised her 
complaint means  this should be discounted.
I think Mrs M wouldve seen her medical condition as a likely reason she might want  to make 
a claim under the policy. And I dont  think  Mrs M wouldve bought this policy if shed 
understood that she wouldnt  be able to claim for it. So I think shes lost out because of what 
FICL did wrong. 
Ref: DRN69402952So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when 
Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  pay Mrs M compensation in line with the 
instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
Ref: DRN69402953ombudsman
Ref: DRN6940295