K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide  Building Society  had the wrong personal details on its 
system which led to difficulties in managing her mortgage online and being able to change 
her overpayment instructions and interest  rate. 
To resolve  her complaint  she wants the relevant overpayments  refunded,  her mortgage  
transferred to a better rate to reflect the loan to value, and for this rate to be back-dated  and 
the interest already paid re-calculated. 
background
When Miss M took her Nationwide  mortgage her personal details were  input incorrectly on 
Nationwides systems. 
Her loan to value  subsequently reduced  significantly  as the house had been fully refurbished 
and was worth more than when  she obtained the mortgage. So she wanted to apply for a 
more favourable interest rate product.
She says that over the year preceding  her complaint she tried to contact Nationwide  on 
numerous occasions in order to do this. But everybody she spoke to said they were  unable 
to discuss her mortgage as she couldnt  complete the identity verification process. She was 
also unable  to register for online banking as Nationwides system said her details were  
incorrect. 
She told Nationwide that it had the incorrect details but nobody  was willing  to take ownership 
of the problem or look further into it, no matter how many times she asked. Her job involved 
working in various  places  throughout  the UK and shed been  working  extremely  long hours  
and commuting to and from her home address. Shed therefore been  unable to get to a 
branch, and she told Nationwide this on the phone but was told it couldnt help her.
When she finally spoke to somebody helpful,  she was told her date of birth had been  keyed 
incorrectly on Nationwides systems but that it couldnt change  this, despite having  copies of 
all her details. Nationwide did tell her the date of birth it held for her, which  enabled her to 
register for online banking.
But when she tried to process a product  change, it came to light that further details 
associated with her mortgage  were  incorrect and therefore she couldnt apply online. Miss M 
says shed taken  a two-year tracker product with no early repayment charge solely in order  
to get a better deal as soon as the refurbishment  had been completed.
On her complaint  to Nationwide  it acknowledged that there  had been errors  in assessing her 
documents. It said that when her mortgage application was submitted, her broker  had keyed 
in the wrong date of birth. This should have been corrected when she provided her passport, 
but Nationwide had failed to update her information  which is why it showed  incorrectly  on 
Nationwides system. 
As the information  submitted on the mortgage application didnt  match the information 
Nationwide already held for her current account,  the system created a second validation  
profile for her. It was likely that having two active customer profiles had contributed to the 
problems with validation  and online banking. Nationwide  had now corrected this.
Ref: DRN69533672Nationwide understood Miss M was unhappy with the time taken to review the case, but the 
application had been allocated as quickly  as possible  and Nationwide  had needed further  
information to ensure  it could fully address the issues shed raised. Nationwide also 
understood Miss M wanted to know which  information she had failed the security checks on, 
but it couldnt provide this information  under  data protection regulations.
Miss M had also asked that an overpayment arrangement on her mortgage be cancelled. 
Nationwide had cleared this and said her payments should return  to the previous  amount for 
March 2019 and would continue at this level unless the rate changed.
Nationwide was unable  to backdate and refund the overpayments  as it had no record  of the 
request being  made. If Miss M could confirm when and how shed contacted it to make this 
request originally, Nationwide could backdate once the request had been  verified.
For the error  in the processing  of Miss Ms mortgage  application,  which had caused 
problems in getting online to make changes  to her account, Nationwide  had arranged for 
£150 compensation to be paid to her.
Miss M wasnt  happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She said shed now 
missed much lower mortgage  rates as they had again increased meaning  shed  paid far 
more interest than if her details had initially been input correctly. 
She said the terrible service from numerous members of staff, going back and forth and 
arguing about details which she knew were her details,  being  unable to get a better  
mortgage rate or remove her overpayments when  she needed  to had caused significant 
stress. 
She didnt  feel it was fair that shed been  penalised  for an error Nationwide made  during an 
application process. It had said it didnt have  evidence of her contacting  it. But she didnt 
know how Nationwide could believe this to be an acceptable response.  All the information  
shed provided  showed contact had been  made, otherwise she wouldnt have access to the 
details which  she did. She couldnt  be held responsible  for Nationwides systems not 
retaining appropriate information  or calls not being  recorded.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Miss Ms complaint  be upheld. He said an error had 
occurred when her application was submitted - initially from the broker  inputting her date of 
birth incorrectly - and Nationwide failing to notice and correct the error even though it had the 
correct information  on file. The adjudicator was satisfied Nationwide had now corrected this. 
But he agreed it would have caused  complications  in accessing online banking.
Miss M had contacted  Nationwide  in January 2018  to discuss a change of interest rate 
product and register for online  banking. However this wasnt completed as she couldnt be 
verified. Shed also attempted  on numerous  occasions by phone  throughout 2018 to discuss 
changing the interest rate product but owing to the incorrect details this wasnt  possible.
But the adjudicator hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Miss M had contacted Nationwide 
in 2018 to request a change to her interest rate product. That wasnt to say this didnt 
happen, but he wasnt able to recommend Nationwide  backdate any interest rate that Miss M 
might have been eligible for on this basis. If she was able to provide further information 
about when these requests were made then he could look at this again.
Ref: DRN69533673In November 2017 Miss M had contacted Nationwide to discuss making overpayments  to 
her mortgage and this was agreed  and confirmed  on 21 November 2017. Her new monthly 
payment including the overpayment began in December 2017.
The adjudicator had also not seen  any evidence relating to Miss Ms requests to cease the 
overpayments to her mortgage  and go back to her original contractual monthly payment. 
Again, this wasnt to suggest she never  made these requests.  But based on the evidence  
provided, the adjudicator was unable to ask Nationwide  to backdate this request. If Miss M 
could provide evidence to the contrary then he could also look at this again.
Nationwide had issued  £150 in compensation for the errors which  had occurred owing to 
Miss Ms date of birth being inputted incorrectly which the adjudicator felt was fair and 
reasonable. He wouldnt  be asking it to do any more.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman  for 
further review. She said the adjudicators view was based on the fact he couldnt evidence 
that she did in fact contact  Nationwide on numerous  occasions during 2018 in order  to 
change her mortgage product. 
However Nationwide itself had already acknowledged that owing  to the error in her personal  
details, it wouldnt have  been possible to speak to anyone regarding  her accounts, as she 
continuously failed  the identity and verification  process. No notes would be logged of her 
calls as Nationwide couldnt have verified it was her account, therefore there would be no 
evidence of this available.
Whilst she appreciated it was difficult to ascertain  the date on which  she would have 
changed her mortgage  product, she had provided numerous broker emails showing that she 
went to them  as she was sick of the issues she was having with Nationwide.
She said the outcome of the complaint should  be considered on the balance of probability. 
Shed provided testimony which showed shed  been in contact with Nationwide, including  
what elements of her details were incorrect. Had she not had these discussions she would 
have had no way of knowing what details were input  incorrectly at the time of her mortgage 
application.
She appreciated the fact that without evidence of the calls shed made, backdating  an 
interest rate might be difficult. However  she would have expected  further consideration to be 
given as to how the matter  could be resolved fairly.
Despite the fact there was apparently insufficient evidence to prove  she requested the 
overpayment to be removed prior to her complaint, there was certainly documented 
evidence from the date her complaint was raised  that she wanted this action to be taken. 
This hadnt been considered in either  the adjudicators or Nationwides response  - only future 
overpayments were  removed - none  were refunded.
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN69533674Miss M has requested that I telephone her to discuss the case  and the reasons  she doesnt 
agree with the decisions of both Nationwide and our adjudicator. However  she has already  
set these out in detail  and I dont consider it appropriate to discuss  these issues  with one 
party to the dispute in the absence of the other party. Im confident  that Ive understood all 
the arguments the parties wish to make.
In its submission to this service Nationwide  describes the complaint as having been  received 
on 28 January 2019. But thats  not the full picture. Miss M complained  to Nationwide in a 
message on 31 January  2018. She said:
I have been making numerous attempts to manage  my mortgage  online as I signed up for 
this when the mortgage was opened.  The website stated I could not login as my details did 
not match.
I contacted your call centre  to rectify  this and the reason  was my last name was too long 
however I was not offered  any explanation or rectification of this matter. I would like to be 
able to login  and review my information  online so please can this be rectified  as soon as 
possible as waiting in call queues  or having  to visit a branch  is extremely time-consuming. 
As I work in London, I do not have access to any post with my account number on it until the 
weekend however I have been  assured that you would be able to identify me with the above 
information. 
Please resolve  this issue as soon as possible.
Nationwide replied on 1 February 2018:
Thanks for messaging us. Im sorry to see that youve  been having problems trying to 
register for online banking. I would really like to look into this for you, as your [sic] requesting  
account specific information and we are unable to verify you through email.
Ill need to speak to you over the phone to discuss  this. Can you please let me know  the best 
number for me to call you on and also the best date/time for me to call?
Miss M didnt reply. And Nationwide says: Ive not located any further emails from the 
consumer, until the complaint  was raised  by email on 28 January 2019. The reason for this, 
as confirmed in an email from Miss M to this service  dated 7 May 2019, is that Nationwides 
reply dated  1 February 2018 went straight to her spam folder. So as from 1 February 2018, 
the complaint  proceeded no further. But that wasnt Nationwides  fault. Miss M was waiting to 
hear from Nationwide and Nationwide was waiting  to hear from Miss M.
Miss M says she made numerous attempts to pursue the matter by phone  during 2018, but 
these all failed because  she couldnt pass security and didnt know why, and nobody was 
willing to investigate the problem. Nationwide has no record of this for obvious reasons. 
Nevertheless it wasnt until 28 January 2019 that Miss M messaged  Nationwide  again. She 
said:
The records held for my mortgage are incorrect meaning I can not log on to online banking. 
I have both been in to your branch and contacted yourselves on more  than one occasion  to 
have this rectified and it still has not been  completed.
Ref: DRN69533675I need to access  my online banking in order to change my mortgage product with yourselves 
as my current  rate expires in April 2019.
I have provided all of my details numerous  times  and the fact I am still unable to deal with 
my own banking products  is extremely inconvenient.
Nationwide responded on 28 February 2019  and confirmed the incorrect date of birth had 
been rectified.
It seems  to me that the main reason why this took so long is that Miss M didnt phone 
Nationwide as requested in its email  of 1 February  2018. If she had, I see no reason why the 
matter wouldnt have  been resolved in February  2018 as it was in February 2019. Of course 
the delay wasnt  Miss Ms fault either  she didnt know  the email  had gone  into her spam 
folder. But in order  for Miss Ms complaint to succeed, I need to be persuaded not that it 
wasnt her fault, but that it was Nationwides fault.  I cant see that it was.
I dont consider it appropriate to order Nationwide to pay the difference  between  the interest 
rate Miss M was paying and whatever  lower  rate might have been available  to her, because 
despite the online difficulties she could have  applied for a new product by visiting  a branch of 
Nationwide. Im not persuaded that it was completely impossible for her to visit a branch for 
a year in order to do this. And in her email to Nationwide of 31 January 2018  she didnt say 
that visiting a branch  was impossible, only that it was time-consuming. 
The same reasoning applies to Nationwides refusal to backdate the instruction to cease the 
overpayments, with the additional consideration that Miss Ms indebtedness to Nationwide  
will have been reduced by the amount of the overpayments.
Miss M said in her message dated 28 January  2019 that she had been in to a branch but I 
have no information  about when that was or what happened on that occasion. I dont see 
why the date of birth problem couldnt have been dealt with by production  of appropriate  
identity documents.  I also note that when she contacted  this service a month  later she told 
us she had been unable to access a branch.
Nationwide has acknowledged  that it made an error  which resulted in Miss M being unable  
to access online banking,  get a better mortgage  rate, or remove  her overpayments  when she 
needed to. But it wasnt the fault of Nationwide that this situation lasted for as long as it did. 
Miss M has said that when she failed  security she told Nationwide that shed been unable  to 
access a branch. This would indicate  that Nationwide told her to go to a branch to sort the 
problem out. It could have been  sorted  out before the latter  two problems arose,  and Im not 
persuaded that Nationwide is to blame for that not happening.
Nationwide has paid or offered to pay compensation of £150  for its mistake and I agree with 
the adjudicator  that this is fair and reasonable. In her letter to this service  dated 
30 April 2019 Miss M says the £150 hasnt been sent to her, but the file received from 
Nationwide contains  a letter to her dated  1 March 2019 enclosing a cheque. 
Nationwide has checked the position and says the cheque  hasnt been presented  for 
payment. It will now have  expired so Nationwide will need to send  another if my final 
decision remains the same as this provisional  decision and is accepted  by Miss M.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN69533676Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Miss M accepted  my provisional decision.  
Nationwide said it had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional conclusions  I confirm them  here.
my final decision
Nationwide Building  Society has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Nationwide should  pay Miss M £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2020
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6953367