K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have  marked that she has been late with her 
payments for a loan for over five years. Ms G says that she only missed one payment in 
2012. 
Ms G also complains  that the bank calls her regularly about this missed payment  
sometimes out of office hours. 
She wants her credit file amended to show that she only missed  one payment and she would 
like compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
background
Ms G took out a loan with the bank in around 2010.  She says that her payments have  
always been paid on time except once  in July 2012, when she missed a payment of around 
£35. 
Ms G says that she discussed  this payment with the bank and was told that it could be 
added to the end of her loan agreement. 
In October  2018, Ms G saw that her credit file had recorded late payments for her account  
for around  five years. As she had only missed one payment, she didnt understand why her 
credit file was stating this. 
She complained to the bank who found that they hadnt done anything wrong in recording 
the late payments.  They said that they had written to her about the missed payment of July 
2012. Even if she hadnt read this letter, they said they had also had phone conversations  
about it with her in October 2014  and January  2015.  Despite  this, Ms G hadnt rectified the 
situation. They didnt  uphold her complaint. 
Ms G wasnt  happy with this decision so she came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint either. She thought the bank had told Ms G 
about the missed  payment and that it was up to Ms G to pay this if she wanted to. She 
considered whether the bank had agreed  to add the missed payment to the end of the loan. 
She thought  that, even if they had, the payment would still be late every  month  so it made  no 
difference to what was recorded on the credit file. 
Our adjudicator also considered the number of calls that Ms G was receiving from the bank.  
She didnt  agree that they had been  calling  her too much. She thought  that Ms G might be 
getting calls from someone  else pretending to be the bank, but it wasnt  the bank.  
Ms G didnt agree with this outcome so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Ms G wont be happy  with my decision. I dont think that the bank has done 
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
Ref: DRN63918772I have considered the missed payment. Both Ms G and the bank agree that a payment 
wasnt made in July 2012. I do accept that the bank wrote to Ms G about  this but, as the 
bank accepts, Ms G might  not have read this letter. 
I have seen the bank business  file. I think that they did call her in October 2014 and January 
2015 to discuss  the missed  payment.  So, even  if Ms G wasnt  aware of the missed payment 
in July 2012, she was aware  of it in October 2014.  
Ms G says that bank  had agreed to add the missed  payment to the end of her loan. I can 
see nothing on the bank file saying this but I accept what Ms G was told as the bank  cant 
say otherwise. 
So, I considered  whether  this would change what is on Ms Gs credit file  that she has a 
late payment since 2012. I dont  think  that it would as she does still have the missed 
payment which  will only be paid at the end of the loan. So, I think that what  is recorded on 
the credit  file is correct.  
I have also checked  the banks file to see how many calls that theyve made to Ms G. Their 
call log doesnt match Ms Gs call log. I can see Ms G has had calls from what  is a HSBC  
number, but I dont think that it was them. I think that it is a hoax caller or, even worse, a 
potential scammer. I cant hold the bank responsible for these calls.  
So, for these reasons,  I dont think that the bank has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
Because I think that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has recorded the right information on Ms Gs credit 
file and because  I dont think that they have called Ms G excessively, I dont require them  to 
do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6391877