K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has 
unfairly increased the cost of their pet insurance  policy. 
Background
Mr and Mrs W took out a lifetime pet insurance policy  underwritten  by Red Sands. 
In 2017 the premium Red Sands offered went up to around £109 per month  and then in 
2018 it nearly tripled to around  £307.  It was at this point Mr and Mrs W complained. They  
have cancelled the policy because they couldnt afford to continue with it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Ws policy  was too 
high or they should have been charged  less for the policy.
While Mr and Mrs Ws premium has seen  a significant increase, I havent  seen any evidence 
to suggest Red Sands has treated  them differently to how it would have treated any other  
policyholders in the same position.  So I cant say Red Sands has singled them  out and 
treated them  unfairly compared to its other customers or that Red Sands needs to offer them  
cover for a lower premium going forwards 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs W, as that was the outcome they had been 
hoping for. I understand this situation has caused Mr and Mrs W a significant amount of 
upset and due to the medical conditions their pet now has, they cant find equivalent cover 
elsewhere. Theyve had to cancel their Red Sands policy as its become unaffordable for 
them. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr and Mrs W took out, will continue to cover  
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims 
are made. And that there is no limit to how much  the premium  could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Mr and Mrs W 
before they took out the policy, particularly when the policy was being marketed as lifetime 
insurance. They needed this information to properly understand  what it was they were 
buying and so they could  make an informed choice. But, having  looked at the information 
Ref: DRN60184722Red Sands  gave Mr and Mrs W about  the policy  at the sale, I dont think  it made  this clear to 
them.
Red Sands  say the policy was taken out over the phone. It was sold a long time ago and a 
copy of the call recording is no longer available, so I dont know what was said to 
Mr and Mrs W at the time. Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions  of the policy  and 
these do say that the cost of the policy could change. But I think  its very unlikely this term 
would have been sufficiently highlighted to Mr and Mrs W during the call and following that 
they wouldve  had to read through several pages of closely worded text to see it. And in any 
event, I dont think the long-term  risk that the cost of the policy could rise significantly is 
made clear. 
So I dont  think Red Sands gave Mr and Mrs W clear  enough  information  about the policy.
Where I find something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely to have happened  if it 
hadnt, to see if the consumers  have  lost out.
Mr and Mrs W chose  to take out pet insurance,  so they wanted some type of cover  for their 
dog. And, as they chose to take out a lifetime  policy, they clearly  had some interest in the 
greater level of cover it provided.  If Mr and Mrs W hadnt taken a lifetime policy,  they 
wouldve either had no cover at all, and would have had to pay for all their pets treatment 
themselves, or a reduced level of cover,  where they would  still have found themselves in a 
situation where their pets conditions were no longer covered. So I think  its likely they would 
still have gone  ahead  with the lifetime policy, even if theyd known the premium could 
increase significantly  in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr and Mrs W werent 
so shocked or upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something they were  expecting to happen. 
Mr and Mrs W have  said they can no longer afford to keep paying the increasing cost of the 
policy  this isnt a position  they expected to find themselves in. Better information about the 
policy wouldve meant that they could have been more prepared  for the possibility that they 
might not be able to afford to continue with the policy and that their pet might lose cover  for 
their ongoing  and pre-existing conditions.
Ref: DRN60184723Mr and Mrs W have  benefitted from this policy. But any award I make isnt to compensate 
Mr and Mrs W for financial loss. Its about  the impact  that the lack of clear information 
provided by Red Sands  has had on Mr and Mrs W, both practically  and emotionally.  I think  
this lack of clear information  has caused  Mr and Mrs W significant  trouble and upset. So I 
think it would  be fair for Red Sands to pay them  £750 as compensation for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs W £750  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject this decision before 8 May 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6018472