K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained about a number of loans  she took out through a company called 
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Miss C says she was lent 
to irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny.
background
We now know that Miss C took out 11 loans from Sunny between February 2015 and 
September 2015. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Cs borrowing with Sunny, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan 5 onwards. Sunny doesnt  agree with this and says that it didnt do 
anything wrong. The complaint has therefore  come to me for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Miss Cs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Miss C could repay all the loans  she was given in a sustainable  manner.  These checks  
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being  
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN65463422There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss C could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss C. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the complaint about loans 1, 2, 3 and 4 ought not to 
be upheld as they appeared affordable. Ive looked carefully at these and taken note of Miss 
Cs declared income. Ive also looked at what she said about her monthly  expenditure. 
With this information,  and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the 
lending relationship, I think the checks which Sunny most likely carried  out appear to have  
been proportionate for loans 1  4. And I think these  levels  of checks,  together  with the 
income and expenditure details provided  by Miss C, would have made  those particular loans 
appear affordable  for her. 
However, I think at the point of loan 5 in this case things would have looked different and 
therefore required a more thorough and responsible approach from Sunny. For loan 5, for 
example, Sunny ought to have been aware  this was her 5th such  loan in less than 3 months. 
It should have  also seen that although her declared  income appeared stable, it was a low 
income, and it should therefore have considered her circumstances with care. Previous 
Sunny loans were  also still outstanding.
Theres no evidence Sunny altered its approach at the point of loan 5 to look more 
thoroughly at Miss Cs financial situation, such as looking in detail at her bank statements, 
double checking  her declared  income / expenditure figures or carrying  out more detailed  
credit checks. I think if it had done  this it would have shown she was in financial difficulty  and 
that her borrowing was to meet normal ongoing  commitments. So I think  it was irresponsible  
to lend to Miss C at this point.
In addition to the above,  from the point of loan 6 onwards,  there was a very clear pattern of 
repeated lending evident in my view. Loan 6 directly followed loan 5 by just 2 weeks, again 
whilst other  loans remained outstanding. There was an obvious  dependency on high-
interest, short-term lending evidenced  by this, her 6th loan in 3 months.  
So Im also upholding  Miss Cs complaint in respect of loans 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 as well. 
Sunny repeatedly lent to Miss C in an unsustainable  manner  because:
 
Ref: DRN65463423these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Miss C borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss C paid on loans 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 10 and 11 and treat any 
payments Miss C made towards  these  loans as payments towards  the capital
if reworking Miss Cs loans 10 and 11 accounts as Ive directed results in her 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Sunny 
should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple  interest  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
If reworking Miss Cs loans 10 and 11 accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then Sunny can use the total refund for the other upheld loans to offset  this. 
And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind  Sunny that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Miss C for the remaining capital
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Miss Cs credit file
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 should be 
completely removed from Miss Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Miss C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN65463424For the reasons  given,  I partly uphold Miss Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Miss C as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Date Amount Instalments Paid
1.01/02/2015 £200 24 weeks Yes
2.30/03/2015 £50 24 weeks Yes
3.14/04/2015 £50 24 weeks Yes
4.25/04/2015 £50 24 weeks Yes
5.28/04/2015 £100 24 weeks Yes
6.11/05/2015 £50 24 weeks Yes
7.14/07/2015 £100 24 weeks Yes
8.30/07/2015 £50 24 weeks Yes
9.09/08/2015 £50 24 weeks Yes
10.15/08/2015 £150 24 weeks No
11.18/09/2015 £50 24 weeks No
Ref: DRN6546342