K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt  notify him of an alternative interest rate when 
it became available. 
background
Mr O has a mortgage with Santander that was taken out in 2007. The interest rate was 
initially fixed  for five years  and would  then revert to Santanders Standard Variable Rate  
(SVR).
In 2012 the mortgage  moved  onto the SVR and remained on this rate until January 2019  
when Mr O spoke to Santander and arranged a new fixed rate. During the application for this 
new rate Santander  told Mr O that when mortgage rate deals now expired, they reverted to 
Santanders Follow  on Rate (FOR) rather than its SVR. And that this had been the case  for 
all new deals  since January 2018.  The FOR tracks the Bank  of England  base rate and at 
that time was lower  than Santanders  SVR.  Mr O also became aware that the FOR had been 
available as an option for him to switch  to, since it was introduced.
Mr O complained to Santander  that he wasnt notified of this rate when it became available. 
As a result he felt he has lost out by paying  more interest.
Santander said that the FOR had not been  available when Mr O originally took his mortgage  
- which was the last time an interest rate deal was taken or discussed. So it couldnt have 
told him at the time. And since then he had opted  out of receiving marketing information, 
which is why he wasnt notified sooner.  It also said that it couldnt have simply switched 
Mr Os mortgage to this rate as he wouldve needed to agree this.
Mr O then asked our service to look into the complaint. He felt information about  the new 
FOR should  not have  been considered marketing material and Santander should have told 
him about this sooner.
Santander explained in its submissions to us that information about the FOR  had been sent 
with annual statements, so had been  received by Mr O. And as a result its previous point 
about opting out of receiving marketing was not actually relevant  which  it apologised for.
An investigator considered what had happened. Having done so he didnt think Santander 
had done anything wrong. He felt that the information Santander had provided  with annual 
statements about the FOR was clear and that it wasnt required to do more. 
Mr O disagreed as he still felt Santander had not done enough. He also thought  Santander 
was acting unfairly to all of its customers on the SVR by not doing more  to inform them of the 
option to move to the FOR. He felt it was not acting in good faith by allowing accounts  to 
continue on this rate. As Mr O did not agree with the investigators opinion,  the complaint  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63280162Mr O has said that in addition to being unhappy  with how his account has been managed  
and information  communicated  to him, he also thinks  other  customers  have been treated 
unfairly. My role is to look at individual disputes and decide what  I think the fair and 
reasonable resolution is based on the individual merits of the complaint. Its not my role to 
comment on Santanders practices in general  this would be a matter for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So while Ive taken on board Mr Os comments Ive only looked 
at how it has treated him here. 
Santander has said its FOR only came into effect  in 2018. So it couldnt have given any 
information to Mr O about this until shortly  before  it was introduced, as it did not exist as an 
option. 
Santander has sent us copies of the information  included with Mr Os 2017 mortgage  
statement. Some details of the FOR were  included in the general information  accompanying 
the statement. In addition, Santander  has provided a copy  of a further  fact sheet, specifically 
relating to the FOR, that was included with Mr Os statement. This explained how the FOR 
differed to the SVR, who was eligible to switch  to the FOR and how to do so. 
Mr O has said he thinks this was inadequate  and delivering it in this way, which  he likened to 
small print and spam mail, wasnt enough. But I disagree. There is no obligation or 
requirement on Santander to tell customers about new rates  that might be available  to them. 
So by including  this information with annual statements Santander was already doing more  
than it was required to. And I also think the information given with the statements is clear.  
The information enclosed  about the FOR was separate to the other general information 
about the mortgage. And the heading  Introduction of a new Follow-on Rate  is in my opinion 
clear enough  about  what the fact sheet covered. So I think Santander gave Mr O a clear 
notification about  the introduction of the FOR alongside an important document,  the annual  
mortgage statement, even  though  it wasnt required to do so. So I cant say this was unfair.
Turning to the rate that has been applied to Mr Os mortgage, Ive seen his mortgage  offer 
from 2007. I think the information in this is clear that after the fixed  rate ended, the interest 
rate would switch  to Santanders SVR. So I dont think  Santander has made  an error by 
applying the SVR to his account. 
I also dont think Santander  has done  anything wrong by not automatically switching Mr O to 
a different rate of interest. Under the terms of the agreement between Mr O and Santander, 
it would  not be entitled to do this  even if it was to Mr Os benefit   without his agreement. 
So I dont  think Santander has done  anything wrong  by continuing to apply the SVR until 
Mr O requested this be changed.
Customers have varying needs  and requirements  which can change over time. Santander 
cant reasonably  be expected to anticipate what was best for Mr O unprompted. I think  its 
reasonable that Santander would have expected Mr O to approach  it if he wanted to change 
his interest rate deal. Ive seen copies  of the information included with Mr Os annual  
statements from 2012 onwards, when his account switched to the SVR. The information 
invited Mr O to get in touch with Santander if he wished to switch to an alternative rate or if 
he thought his current interest  rate was not right for him. So I think Santander provided him 
with enough information to prompt him to think about this. But he doesnt appear  to have 
done this until 2019. 
Ref: DRN63280163Taking all of this into account  I dont  think Santander  has done anything  wrong  in relation to 
how it notified Mr O the introduction of the new FOR. And I dont think  it was required to 
automatically switch his account to this rate or provide unsolicited advice about this being an 
option.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6328016