K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank plc unfairly  applied charges and interest  to her accounts.
background
Miss B has two accounts  with Lloyds, and shes paid charges and interest  on them  over the 
years. Miss B suffers with particular health  issues, and given her circumstances she thinks  
its unfair for the bank to apply  the charges and interest. Shes in financial difficulty  and 
asked Lloyds to refund the charges and interest  shes paid since  2002.
Lloyds considered the charges and interest had been applied in line with the terms of the 
accounts. It said it hadnt been  aware of Miss Bs health issues or the financial difficulty  she 
is experiencing until shed contacted it in November 2018. 
At that point Lloyds  suspended charges and interest  on the accounts for one month, and 
paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought that was fair, but he didnt consider the bank needed to make  the 
full refund Miss B was seeking. So he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has complained  about  interest and charges that have been applied to her accounts 
since 2002. But as the investigator  has explained, the rules of this service mean that I can 
only consider those that were applied in the six years before Miss B made her complaint.
Miss B has told me how her health  issues affect  her life, and I am sympathetic to the position  
she is in. I understand  Miss B has suffered with her conditions  for many years, and that it 
wasnt easy for her to approach Lloyds to tell it about her situation.
Given Miss Bs particular circumstances, I can see why she might  consider Lloyds could  do 
more to help her. As Ive already said, I appreciate the difficulties Miss Bs health conditions 
create for her. But we do not automatically uphold  complaints because  of the health issues  a 
customer is suffering from.  
Instead, I have to look at all the relevant  evidence  and wider circumstances, to assess  
whether the business has done anything wrong. In this case,  Ive looked carefully at how 
much the bank knew about  Miss Bs circumstances, and what  it did once  it became aware of 
her situation.
From what  Ive seen, it seems Lloyds didnt  know about Miss Bs health  issues  or the 
financial difficulty she was in until she contacted it in November 2018. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Lloyds shouldve been  aware that Miss B was struggling before that 
point. 
Ref: DRN64533762In addition, Im satisfied that the charges and interest were applied to Miss Bs accounts in 
line with the terms  and conditions that govern  them.
Im aware that my decision will be disappointing  for Miss B. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, there are no reasonable  grounds  on which I can ask Lloyds to make the refund 
she is seeking.
Once Lloyds became  aware of Miss Bs situation it froze interest  and charges on her 
accounts for one month, and paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I think  the steps  it took 
were reasonable in the circumstances, as it gave Miss B an opportunity to try to sort out her 
accounts.
Lloyds should  continue to treat Miss B positively and sympathetically  for as long as she 
continues to experience financial difficulty. But this does not mean  Lloyds is required to 
refund charges and interest  that have been  properly applied to the accounts. Instead,  Lloyds  
should work with Miss B to help her manage  her finances, including referring  her to third 
party debt support charities if necessary.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6453376