K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the service he has been  provided from Assurant  General  
Insurance Limited (Assurant) when he made a claim under his mobile phone  insurance 
policy provided with his bank account.
The policy is underwritten by Assurant.  It uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf and all 
references to Assurant in this decision  should  be read as including  anything said or done on 
its behalf by those agents.
background
In February 2018  Mr C reported his mobile  phone  was faulty. Between  then and November 
2018 Mr C had a number of issues with the replacement phones  Assurant sent him. In 
December 2018  Assurant offered Mr C a cash settlement of £230 instead  of a replacement  
mobile phone.  
In November 2018 Mr C complained about the service hed received. A final response was 
issued to Mr C on 15 November 2018. Within this, £75 was offered for the inconvenience.
Our investigator looked at everything  and recommended Assurant pay an additional  £150  in 
compensation to Mr C. Assurant didnt  agree  with this and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In turn Mr C was also unhappy  with the amount that had been  recommended  by 
the investigator. 
This case has now been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute Mr C has experienced some customer service issues  since February 2018. 
What I need to decide is whether the compensation offered to recognise  these issues is fair.
I do appreciate this whole matter has been  going on for quite a while  and it has taken a lot of 
Mr Cs time.  Assurant  has acknowledged  mistakes were made on its part and some things 
had been done during the claims process that should not have been. 
Assurant has paid £75 to Mr C with regards to the complaint he has raised.  But having 
considered of all the circumstances, I believe  an additional amount of £150 for the 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable.  
I appreciate Mr C spent a lot of time on the phone with Assurant trying  to resolve the 
concerns he had with the replacement phones he was sent. He would have also had to be at 
home for deliveries which would have taken him away  from doing his day to day work. I 
understand Assurant  realised in November 2018  that Mr Cs claim had been  double 
indemnified. This was because of a mistake  made  by Assurant - which it has accepted. But 
this did add to Mr Cs troubles during this whole  time, so Ive also thought  about  the impact  
Assurants mistake has had on Mr C. 
Ref: DRN65856582For me to award compensation, Id need to decide  the impact  of its actions as being bigger  
than a minor  inconvenience  or upset - after all, were all inconvenienced at times in our day-
to-day lives. And in this case,  I think  the impact does  warrant some  compensation. I dont 
doubt Mr C spent a lot of time dealing with the issues he was having with this phone. But I 
think the £150 already recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience detailed  above. So I wont  be asking 
Assurant to award any more than this. 
Mr C was paid a cash settlement of £230  in December 2018 after a replacement mobile 
phone had been returned by Mr C to Assurant. The policy terms and conditions state  In 
the event we are unable  to provide a replacement we will contact you to discuss  an 
alternative claim settlement. As there  had been so many issues  with replacing the mobile  
phone up until this point,  I think it was reasonable for Assurant to offer Mr C a cash  
settlement. 
While £230 would not be enough  to buy a brand-new device, it is a fair amount  for a second 
hand or remanufactured phone. The policy terms and conditions do not state  Assurant would 
have to provide  a brand-new replacement phone. They state   Where we replace the 
device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand new) device. So I think the 
cash settlement of £230 is fair and reasonable and reflects  an amount suitable  for a 
remanufactured phone, which is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
Assurant General Insurance Limited should  pay Mr C an additional £150 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6585658