K820x#14complaint
Mr C says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr C bought a single premium PPI policy  in December 1998 at the same  time as taking out a 
personal loan.  Mr C says he applied for the loan in one of HSBCs  branches.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr C when he discussed  it with an 
advisor from HSBC during the meeting. But Ive looked at what  he said about how the 
policy was sold  that he wouldnt knowingly purchase PPI.
Mr C says he applied for the credit  as a bridging loan so that he could buy a car and that 
he repaid it a few weeks later. He says he wouldnt have  knowingly purchased  the policy 
for this reason. But he has not been able to provide further information  on this. I can see 
from a print out provided by HSBC that it shows the loan and PPI policy  went  to full term 
and ended in January  2002. So although  I have  regard for what Mr C has said,  I am not 
persuaded the loan was repaid early or that he would have had this in mind  at the time 
when he was considering whether to have  it or not.
I think, after considering the sample  documentation provided and what  I know  of HSBCs 
single premium PPI policy sales at that time,  it is most likely that he was advised it was a 
good idea to have the insurance to protect  his personal loan repayments, and he took it 
on that advice  by signing the loan agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because although  I dont  have the original sales  forms, 
I have been able to see a sample loan agreement  from the time. This would be 
representative of what would  have been  used. So I think it most likely that Mr C was 
aware he had a choice to have  the PPI policy and signed the form agreeing to it.
I think HSBC recommended  the PPI to Mr C, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  He says he had 3 to 6 
months full sick pay through his employer but I think the benefit  provided by the policy  
would have been useful to him if he had any extended period of sickness  or 
unemployment. Any claim could  have been  paid for up to 12 months and would have 
provided him with additional income  at a difficult time. So I think  the policy  recommended  
Ref: DRN62076322to Mr C would have  been of use. I also cant see any significant terms or exclusions that 
made the policy unsuitable either.
HSBC has provided some information  showing  the costs relating to PPI and the loan that 
Mr C took out, but Im not sure HSBC told him about the amount of interest that would be 
charged on the premium or the total cost of the policy.  But I dont think Mr C wouldve 
changed his mind about taking  the policy if this cost was presented clearly to him during  
the meeting (for the same reasons why I think the policy is suitable).
Mr C wouldve received a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy 
early. I dont  know if he thought  about this when HSBC recommended  the policy or 
explained the situation to him during the meeting. But as I have already concluded Ive 
seen nothing to suggest he thought he would repay the loan early. So I dont think  the 
restrictive term around a limited refund made the policy  unsuitable or better information 
about this wouldve  stopped him buying it.
Its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr C wouldve been affected by any of these, due to his circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr C, but I cannot find a reason  to uphold his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207632