K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked an on-line payment without 
telling him and lied about the manner in which he could use his bankcard.
background 
On 5 September 2018, British Airways (BA) computer systems  were hacked resulting in a 
significant amount  of their customers information being compromised  that is, the hackers  
took names, phone numbers and bankcard information.
BA notified NatWest of the same since it was clear  that NatWest  customers may be 
adversely affected  by the event.
On 11 September,  Mr B tried to make  a point of sale payment, on-line, with a retailer.  
Despite trying several times, the payment would not go through, so at lunchtime Mr B called 
NatWest to see if there was a problem.
Mr B confirmed that he had recently  made a transaction with BA. NatWest explained that this 
was the reason his card had been blocked  for on-line transactions  although it could  be used 
for chip and PIN or contactless payments.  They told Mr B that a decision had been made to 
issue new bankcards to all those  who had been  affected.
Mr B was not happy about this. It was inconvenient  to him to have a new card and that he 
could not make on-line  transactions.  He thought  that NatWest should  have informed  him 
rather than wait for him to have to contact them. So he complained to NatWest.  
NatWest explained  they believed they had done the right thing by restricting  use of the card 
in that particular way. They had not taken the decision lightly but felt that it was the best way 
to protect  their customers,  notwithstanding  some may be inconvenienced. They were sorry 
he had to wait on the phone for so long and so offered him £30 and £5.40 for his call cost.  
Mr B rejected that.
Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. He did not think  it was fair that NatWest  hadnt let 
people know  precisely how they were affected.  Having said he could not use his card on-
line, he had noticed  other on-line payments  did go through on his card.
The investigators looking into Mr Bs complaint thought that it was reasonable for NatWest to 
restrict use of his card and NatWest had been entitled to do so based  on the terms and 
conditions of the account. But that waiting on the phone  and being  passed through  to 
different departments warranted another £50. NatWest agreed to pay that too.
Mr B rejected that. He felt the point of his complaint  had been missed. He thought  that 
NatWest had lied to him or lied to the public on their own website by saying customers could 
use their cards when, in fact, they could not.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66798862Having done so, I think the offer of £80 plus the cost of Mr Bs call is fair. Ill explain why.
Mr B told us he had been aware of the issue the BA hack and was keeping an eye on his 
account because  he was concerned. NatWests website had encouraged all their customers 
to do the same. He had not noticed  anything untoward. But, as set out above,  on the 11th he 
did encounter a problem.
NatWest had decided  to block on-line payments for their affected customers as a 
precautionary measure.  The issue  for Mr B is that he was not informed of that in advance.
The method  of communication NatWest could  use was not prescribed by any rule or 
regulation, so I do not have to decide  this complaint by reference to that. In the 
circumstances, therefore, NatWest had discretion to choose a method  they thought would 
work the best.  Many thousands of people were potentially affected.  They  thought it was 
sensible to put notification on the website  to forewarn customers  of potential problems. I 
agree that was sensible and, indeed, it did further alert Mr B.
NatWest took the initial  decision  not to inform customers  individually.  They  appreciated, and 
calculated, that by placing a block on point-of-sale on line payments that may well cause  an 
inconvenience, but, on balance, any inconvenience was justified and, in any event, 
significantly less disruptive than a fraud  and could be mitigated by payment using the 
bankcard in a different way (chip and PIN for example).
Yes, it would mean that those  affected would likely call the bank. But it also followed that 1) 
some customers would not have tried to make any on-line payments in the period and, 
therefore, would not be affected  in that way and 2) by the time customers received new 
bankcards that would  amount to individual  notification and, by then, the problem largely 
avoided. 
I agree  with all of that. 
By making  the phone call  for which  he was to be compensated  Mr B was told the manner 
in which  he could use his bankcard.  He could use it in all ways just not on-line for what  was 
obviously an unusual payment for a high value item. The other on-line payments did go 
through because  they were already connected to his card and recurring.  Blocking  those  type 
of payments was unnecessary and, plainly,  not the problem  NatWest was seeking  to avoid. 
Enabling their customer to pay recurring household bills, for example, was sensible.
NatWest provided the information to Mr B in circumstances in which he was already alive to 
the facts giving rise to the problem, so It is more likely than not that he well understood what  
NatWest were trying to achieve  and why.
The notification, for Mr B, on NatWests website the next day was not a lie. It stated the card 
could continue to be used. That was true. I accept that the message did not specifically say 
there was a restriction on the use of the card but to do so was unnecessary because  Mr B 
had already been told that. There is nothing to suggest the website message was 
countermanding what had been said to Mr B over the phone.  
NatWest have offered  to pay Mr B an additional  £50 for the inconvenience relating  to the 
phonecall, making a total of £80. I think this is more than fair but it has been  offered and so 
Im not going  to interfere with it. NatWest also offered  to pay £5.40  to cover the call cost, 
which is reasonable.
Ref: DRN66798863my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  and in line with what has already been offered, I require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr B £85.40 within 4 weeks of being  notified that Mr B accepts 
the decision, if he does so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6679886