K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the PPI at a meeting in 2006  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The PPI provided  cover for accident and sickness  subject  to its exclusions and limitations. 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a policy covering Mr S that would pay £300 a month towards their 
mortgage balance  for up to twelve  months in the event of a successful claim and another  
policy covering Mrs S that would pay £200 a month. NatWest says the policies cost £9 and 
£6 per month respectively. From what Ive seen,  each policy also had £20,000 of accidental  
death cover.
Mr S worked at the time in waste management  and Mrs S worked in administration. Mr S 
had been in his employment for more  than five years and Mrs S for more  than 15 years,  
according to the mortgage application  form they signed. Theyve told us they were entitled to 
sick pay or redundancy pay worth at least six but less than twelve months pay, including full 
sick pay for each of them and redundancy pay which  for Mr S was six months  full pay. They  
had £10,000 savings they couldve used  to pay their mortgage  if they couldnt  work. From 
what theyve told us they were in good health  at the time and hadnt  had any health issues. 
A questionnaire  sent to us for Mr and Mrs S refers  to being past retirement age at the time 
and working less than 16 hours a week  but given their ages and the information theyve 
given about their employments, Im not persuaded this was the case  at the time of sale.
NatWest has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 2006.  
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means NatWest should  have told Mr and Mrs S 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN63708922The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed; and 
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). Although  the non-statutory  provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on 
those selling insurance, I consider they still represent a helpful  guide to good  industry  
practice. As a result it is appropriate  for me to take them  into account along with the relevant 
ICOB rules and the other  relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN63708923GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NatWest gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN63708924-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in their favour, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and NatWest, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  application had 
a space where they could indicate they wanted to apply for PPI. It also had a space they 
could initial to indicate that they didnt want this sort of cover.  They left this space blank  and 
instead indicated  an interest in accident  and sickness cover for Mrs S. Also they both signed 
an application form for each policy  separate  from their mortgage application form. These 
policy application forms were headed  Mortgage Repayments Protection Insurance and set 
out who was to be covered and for how much. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs S knew  the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take the policies without  undue  pressure.
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs S cant recall  whether 
advice was given.  With all this in mind, based  on what  I have Im persuaded NatWest  didnt 
give advice. This means it didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the PPI, including drawing  to their attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the PPI 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is that the PPI would protect their payments if either one 
of them  were unable  to work through accident or sickness) and of the approximate  costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would  have taken the 
PPI without any sense  of what the PPI was for and of how much the premium might  be. Also 
their mortgage application  indicated an interest in accident and sickness  cover and a sheet 
they signed for the mortgage recommendation says they had asked for quotes for Accident 
and Sickness Cover only. In addition, the policy application forms set out the amount each 
policy would pay out and who was covered.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs S 
agreed to take the PPI.
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN63708925Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ss. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs S. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the PPI, had NatWest done  things properly. Mr and Mrs S say they 
would not have taken it and believe I should  presume this to be the case given the significant 
failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of both sides  and the evidence 
relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the PPI against  the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take the policies. So I consider its reasonable 
to conclude they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs S thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if they have suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs S were given about  the benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the PPI, such as the cost and the limitations and exclusions,  wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been.  
Ref: DRN63708926Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs S knew they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, it doesnt  appear NatWest told them  the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the PPI. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would have been told 
the cost before the PPI started and they paid for the PPI for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odd with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with NatWest at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the PPI.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI excluded claims  resulting from any chronic or continuing health issue  from 
which Mr or Mrs S knowingly  suffered  at the policy start and excluded claims occurring in 
the first 12 months of the policy as a result of any health  issue they had seen or arranged 
to see a doctor about in the 12 months  before the policy start;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs S be totally unable to 
do his or her own work and totally unable to do all similar work the insurer thought he or 
she was, or may reasonably become, qualified for in view of his or her training, education 
and ability; and
The PPI would pay the monthly benefit for up to 12 months,  rather  than the remaining 
term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI was 
not as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to them  should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest they 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs S didnt  have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and were in permanent employment. So, I think they still had 
some good  reasons to take the PPI.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the PPI without first providing some evidence  to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known Mr or Mrs S could only claim for disability if he or she were  not 
only totally unable to do his or her own work  but also totally unable to do all similar work for 
which the insurer thought he or she was or may reasonably become qualified in view of his 
or her training, education  and ability, it might  have played into their thinking about  what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although its possible they may 
not have been overly  concerned given  that if Mr or Mrs S were unable  (through disability) to 
carry on his or her own work, the chances he or she would be able to take up a similar  work  
would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN63708927NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 12 
month period.  This may have differed from what Mr and Mrs S expected and might  have 
hoped for. But 12 months  was longer  than Mr or Mrs S wouldve received full sick pay. Given  
the loss or income they could suffer if one or the other was too sick to work, I consider it 
likely they would still have  thought  policies  that paid the monthly  benefit  for up to 12 months, 
would be of benefit to them and help them  manage  the consequences  if Mr or Mrs S couldnt 
work due to disability  in the circumstances covered by the PPI. The PPI allowed for multiple 
claims to be made and could help reduce  Mr and Mrs Ss outgoings  at a difficult  and 
uncertain time, making  it less likely their home would  be placed at risk and helping  keep their 
savings intact  or free for other purposes.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs S would still have taken  the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what its likely  
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr and Mrs S were unable to work  through accident  or sickness.  In the 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have taken the PPI in 
any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption  
may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process were immaterial,  that the flaws  in 
this case were highly material and we have failed  to give proper  weight to the evidence   
including their own comments that they would  not have taken the PPI. Im not persuaded by 
these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken the PPI Im satisfied, of 
the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI had they 
Ref: DRN63708928been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI they were buying.  So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude NatWest 
should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than 
they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs S think NatWest  misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs S, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs S and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find NatWest had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370892