K821x#15complaint
Mr J complained because  Ageas Insurance Limited said it would only pay for damaged 
carpet in the dining room  in settlement of a contents  insurance claim.
background
Mr J noticed that there was a wet patch on his carpet  this had been caused by a leak in the 
water tank.
He contacted Ageas to make a claim to replace the carpet. Mr J says he has an L shaped 
living room  and dining area. Mr J has told us that he had the same  carpet  running  throughout 
 and this particular carpet has now been  discontinued.
Ageas agreed  to pay to replace the carpet in the dining area where the damage  occurred.  
But it said it wouldnt pay for the carpet in the living area, because this was a separate room. 
They have relied on their terms and conditions when  coming to their decision.
Mr J disagreed with this and sent Ageas photos to show how the rooms were  separated.  
Ageas still didnt agree to replace the full carpet,  so Mr J referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought it reasonable to 
consider the area as one and so Ageas should  replace  the carpet in full. Ageas didnt agree 
with this and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im in agreement 
with our investigator that this complaint should  be upheld.
Ageas has relied  on a term in its policy documents when it didnt agree to pay for or replace 
the full carpet.  This term is:
if you have a matching  carpet or other floor covering in more than one room  or area,  
each room or area will be regarded as being  separate. Under the contents  section, 
only damage to the carpet in the room or area where the damage  happened will be 
covered."
Ive looked the pictures  Mr J sent to Ageas to show  the layout of the room.  The area is 
separated by an archway in the middle  there doesnt appear  to be any break or separation  
in the carpet.  And the room isnt separated by any doors either. So I think  it would be fair to 
consider the room as one area, so I dont think this term applies to Mr Js complaint.
Ref: DRN61246422Even if I were to agree  with Ageas that carpet  was running continuously through two 
separate rooms,  Id still be minded  to uphold this complaint. I say this because when 
deciding complaints, I also look beyond the strict meaning of the terms and conditions and 
take into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And having looked at the 
photos of the layout  of Mr Js dining  and living area,  it is clear  to me that it currently  has one 
piece of carpet running through  it continuously.  And if Ageas only replace one part of the 
carpet, this will, in my opinion, significantly affect  how the area looks  aesthetically. And so I 
dont think that only replacing a part of the carpet would  be a fair resolution to this complaint.
The general principle  when settling a claim is that the insurer has to put the policyholder 
back into the position they were  in immediately before  the claim. If Ageas is only going to 
pay to replace the carpet in the area where the damage occurred, I dont think that properly 
puts Mr J back  into the same position  he was in. Thats because prior to the damage he had 
one continuous  carpet.  And after the claim  if its settled  as Ageas intends  he wont  have. 
On that basis, I dont think its fair in this instance for Ageas to rely on the above clause to 
restrict its liability to the area where the damage occurred only.
So I think Ageas  put things  right for Mr J by replacing the carpet across both the living/  
dining area.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Mr Js complaint  should  be upheld  and Ageas  put 
things right for Mr J by replacing  the carpet across both the living/dining area.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6124642