K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that there was a problem with Hargreaves  Lansdown Asset  Management 
Limiteds trading  platform. He says this has caused  him financial loss.
background
Mr M has a trading account  with Hargreaves Lansdown. He says he uses the mobile 
application to access his account.  In May 2018 Mr M wanted to place a trade but couldnt 
access his account.  Following two telephone conversations with Hargreaves Lansdown  he 
was able to access  his account. But by this point it was too late to make the trade he 
wanted. Hes explained this means  hes lost out on around £5,000.
Mr M complained as he believes there was something wrong with the platform. He explained 
he input his correct  password  each time.  But Hargreaves Lansdown has explained that the 
reason he was locked  out was because Mr M was inputting  an incorrect  password.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that the evidence  he had showed 
it was more likely that Mr M made  a mistake when inputting his password. He explained  that 
the system logs Hargreaves Lansdown  sent demonstrated that Mr M entered the wrong 
password, and that there wasnt anything to suggest that Hargreaves Lansdown was 
experiencing problems with its systems on that day.
Mr M disagreed. He explained that he wasnt able to send a secure message through  the 
mobile application so feels this shows there was a problem  with the systems. He said hes 
certain he didnt enter the incorrect password. So hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Im not persuaded that Mr M lost 
out due to Hargreaves Lansdowns systems.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling that he put his correct  password in. And it does 
appear that there was an issue with him sending a secure message on the application  but 
this doesnt persuade me that there  was an issue  with Hargreaves Lansdowns  log-in 
function.
Hargreaves Lansdown has sent me its system records from the day Mr M was locked out of 
his account. This shows that the reason the account locked was because  he was entering  
the password  incorrectly. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that this wasnt  what  was 
more likely to have  happened.
Im pleased to see that Mr M was able to reset his password after a conversation  with 
Hargreaves Lansdown, and I understand the frustration he experienced when he missed  out 
on a trade.  But ultimately Ive not seen enough  to persuade me that this was due to a 
problem with Hargreaves Lansdowns systems.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint
Ref: DRN67745692Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774569