K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Allianz  Insurance Plc has declined commercial  property insurance claim 
for storm  damage to the roof, guttering and fascia at his property.
background
Mr Fs property was damaged in January  2019 following gale force winds  of 47mph. Some 
guttering and a fascia were ripped off and the three  rows of slate tiles above had become 
dislodged. He reported the damage  to his broker who in turn reported it to Allianz.  Allianz 
asked for the broker to send photos of the damage and a quote  for repairs.  Upon receipt of 
both Allianz felt it couldnt determine what had caused the damage, so it appointed a loss 
adjuster to undertake a visit and inspect.  
The loss adjuster visited a few days later and reported to Allianz  that upon inspection  the 
roof was old, worn  and possibly suffering from nail fatigue. The loss adjuster thought that it 
was this that had caused  the damage, rather than the storm, so it recommended  Allianz 
decline the claim in full. 
Allianz told Mr F that his claim  was declined. Mr F replied to say the loss adjuster hadnt 
carried out a proper inspection. He said he hadnt  gone up on the roof nor had he inspected 
the damaged  fascia and guttering that Allianz  had asked Mr F to retain for that very purpose.  
Mr F said he could  accept  that the tiles may have  come off due to nail fatigue but felt the 
storm had damaged the guttering  and fascia.  
Allianz reconsidered the matter and asked its loss adjuster to comment  further.  The loss 
adjuster replied to say that the roof appeared worn all over and the failure of the guttering 
and fascia was considered to be part of the generally worn roof with little visible  evidence  of 
maintenance. Mr F said hed maintained the property and said that if Allianz wasnt prepared  
to change its mind that he wanted  to complain. Allianz shared the photographs its loss 
adjuster had taken  which  showed  that the roof was in a poor state of repair  as tiles further up 
the roof had slipped  as well. It also sent him a copy of an internet photograph from  
September 2016 showing damage existed to the roof even  then. Allianz maintained its 
decision to decline the claim.
Mr F complained to Allianz about  its decision.  It looked into his complaint and said that it had 
accepted that there was a storm around the time the damage occurred and that the damage 
itself was the type of damage a storm could cause. But it also said that the main cause of the 
damage wasnt the storm but rather the condition of the roof at the time the storm occurred.  
Unhappy with Allianzs findings, Mr F complained  to this service. Our investigator looked  into 
his complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. Mr F disagreed with our investigators 
findings, so the complaint was referred  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a property insurance policy.  Only 
damage caused by the insured events listed in the policy  storm, theft, escape of water  etc. 
Ref: DRN68903702 is covered. So, for Allianz to accept Mr Fs claim it will need  to be sure that the damage 
being claimed for was caused by a storm.
I can see that Allianz accepted that the there  was a storm on or around the time the damage 
to Mr Fs roof, guttering and fascia occurred and that it was typical  of the type of damage a 
storm can cause. But these two facts alone are not enough for a storm claim to be accepted. 
It also needs to be shown that the storm itself was the main  cause of the damage. 
Unfortunately for Mr F, Allianz has assessed  that the storm wasnt the main  cause of the 
damage. It has said that the main cause  of the damage to the roof was the fact it was old, 
worn and that the tiles were possibly suffering from nail fatigue. Allianz has said the storm 
highlighted the condition of the roof rather  than caused the damage.
From the evidence Ive seen  particularly the photographs   I dont think this was an 
unreasonable decision for Allianz  to have  reached. Ive noted the weather report  from the 
date of the damage and whilst wind speeds did gust to a maximum of 47mph these cant be 
said to be particularly strong storm winds. Allianz has said that but for the roofs old, worn  
condition, the damage would  not have occurred. I dont think that was an unreasonable  
conclusion for it to have  reached.  
Ive also considered the loss adjusters comments following his inspection of the damage.  
The loss adjuster confirmed the damage was visible  from the ground.  Given  his expertise in 
assessing damage of this nature, I dont  think that it was unreasonable  of him not to have 
gone up on the roof. The photographs taken by the loss adjuster (and the one from the 
internet) support what the loss adjuster reported. Without any evidence  to the contrary  I think 
that Allianzs reliance  on the loss adjusters report to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable. 
From the photographs it looks like the damage  to the roof wasnt  the result  of a one-off  storm 
event. The photographs show  the roof is in a state of disrepair (tiles  further  up the roof had 
also slipped, the lead flashing  was lifting, and some ridge tiles were missing) which was 
likely to have been going on for some time. I know that Mr F thinks  it wasnt fair that Allianz  
relied on the internet image when  assessing the condition of the roof but Im unable  to agree. 
That image showed that the roof, even in 2016, appeared worn and old. Mr F hasnt shown 
he maintained  the roof in between then and the date of the storm.
Mr F also says its not fair to decline his claim on the ground that there was likely to be nail 
fatigue on the roof. He thinks the loss adjuster didnt investigate thoroughly enough as 
shown by his failure  to inspect the damaged guttering  and fascia he had retained at Allianzs 
behest. 
Loss adjusters are experienced in surveying storm damage. And this is the only expert 
report about the cause of damage available, so I cant reasonably ignore it. And insurers 
often ask policyholders  to retain damaged items ahead of a loss adjusters visit as a 
precaution against  the need to inspect them in order to establish if the damage was the 
result of an insured  event.  But its not always necessary for a loss adjuster to have to do so 
and here,  the loss adjuster was able to assess the condition of the roof and reach  a 
conclusion without doing so. He also took numerous photographs of the damage  which  he 
included in his report. Unfortunately for Mr F theres no expert evidence to rebut  the loss 
adjusters conclusions, without which I cant reasonably conclude that Allianz relied unfairly  
on what was reported in order to decline Mr Fs claim. 
Ref: DRN68903703Taking all the available evidence into account I think the damage  the roof, guttering and 
fascia sustained likely  highlighted the pre-existing condition of the roof rather  than being  
caused by the storm  or any of the other insured  events covered by the policy.  It follows 
that I dont  think that Allianz has unfairly declined  Mr Fs claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890370