K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank plc is holding him liable for transactions  totalling nearly 
£8,000 that he says he neither made nor authorised. He says he didnt receive  his card and 
PIN when  he opened  a new account.  
background
Mr I opened a new account with HSBC. According  the banks records,  a debit card and PIN 
were sent to Mr Is address about  a week later. On the same day, Mr I made  a large  cash  
deposit, which was followed by another a few days later. Hes told us that hes self-employed 
and that these were  cash payments for work  hed done. 
Mr I was expecting his card and PIN to arrive within four to five days. A week after theyd 
been sent, Mr I told the bank they hadnt  arrived.  But, in the meantime, cash  machine 
withdrawals and retail payments, together totalling nearly £8,000,  had been made from the 
account, using  Mr Is card and PIN. 
Whilst the bank  initially  made a partial refund and suspended other payments, when it 
reviewed Mr Is case it concluded that he had been responsible for the activity on the 
account. It declined  his request for a refund and re-debited the account. 
Mr I referred the matter to this service, but our investigator agreed with the banks 
conclusions. She thought  it more likely  than not that Mr I had made or authorised the 
transactions. Mr I didnt accept her conclusions, however, and asked  that the case  be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, as the final stage  in our process.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did. 
Mr I says he didnt receive  the card and PIN, and that someone else must have managed  to 
get hold of them, either before or after they were  delivered to his home address. His post is 
delivered to a lockable box on the wall of his house  rather than being delivered through the 
door itself.  I have therefore considered  the possibility that the card and PIN were  taken from 
that box, as well as the possibility that they werent delivered at all. 
HSBCs records  show that the card and PIN were sent separately to Mr Is address. I do 
note that they were  sent rather later than I would usually expect  some  eight  days  after the 
account was opened. I dont believe however thats particularly significant. Im also satisfied 
that the genuine card and PIN were used for each of the transactions  Mr I is disputing.  So, 
whoever made those  transactions must  have  been  able to acquire both the card and PIN. 
They were  however properly addressed by the bank, and I think it more likely than not that 
they safely delivered. And, given what Mr I has told us about his postal arrangements, I think 
its likely  that he received them. 
I cant of course rule out the possibility that someone else intercepted  Mr Is post and used  
the card without his knowledge. But I think thats less likely. 
Because Ive found that its likely that Mr I received the card and PIN, it follows that I also 
think he probably carried out the disputed  transactions, or authorised someone else to do so. 
Ref: DRN69621222The investigator commented on the two cash payments into the account.  Its not necessarily 
unusual for someone  whos self-employed to be paid in cash, although  I do find it unusual  
that Mr I appears to have  little or no paperwork relating to the payments. Be that as it may, 
the source of those  funds doesnt alter my finding that Mr I probably received the card and 
PIN and was responsible for the disputed transactions. It follows  that I dont require HSBC to 
refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything  further to resolve 
Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr I to accept  or reject my decision before  21 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6962122