K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F believe that they have incurred  unnecessary costs as a result of wrong  
information being given to them by AXA Insurance  UK PLC during the handling of a claim 
arising from an oil leak at their property.
background
Mr and Mrs Fs heating  is supplied  by an oil tank which was housed  in an outbuilding 
adjoining their property. The tank suffered a leak which also caused  damage to the structure 
in which  it was housed.
When they made their claim  they were told that the tank had ruptured due to wear  and tear 
so a replacement  wouldnt be covered  by their insurance. But they were told that the loss of 
the oil and repair of any damage caused  by the leak would be covered. 
Crucially, during the handling of the claim,  Mr and Mrs F were  also told that AXA would 
contribute towards the costs of a new base for the tank to be sited  on. This, I believe,  arose  
from a misunderstanding  by AXAs representative.  It was apparent  that as a result of building  
regulations the new oil tank couldnt be sited in the same location  it had been in  or at least 
not without substantial cost to upgrade the structure. Assuming, rightly, that it would 
therefore need to be moved AXAs representative  wrongly assumed that AXA would  not 
therefore have  to pay for any damage to the base that had been in place in the original 
location. That is, that as it wasnt required there, any cost saving for AXA could be used to 
contribute to a new base being located elsewhere.
It seems, however, that there was no bespoke base  in the original outbuilding location but 
rather that the solid floor of the structure  served  that purpose. And, as a result of the oil spill 
and the insurance  cover  for the structure, AXA needed to repair  that floor as part of the 
claim. So, in fact, there was no saving achieved that could then be offset against the cost of 
a new base elsewhere.
By the time this error was identified Mr and Mrs F had relocated  the new tank and paid for a 
new base to be installed.
They felt that AXA should pay for the work and argued that they wouldnt have gone ahead if 
they hadnt been told that AXA would pay for it.
AXA accepted that it had made a mistake. It offered a £200 compensation payment for the 
error but didnt believe  that it had caused Mr and Mrs F any additional expense. It argued 
that when its contractor had first visited the site he was told that the decision had already 
been made to move  a new tank to the final location. It felt that Mr and Mrs F would have 
gone ahead  with the work anyway, so the error hadnt made any difference to the outcome.
Mr and Mrs F have  said that this isnt the case.  They argue that they would have left the new 
tank in a temporary location on their patio,  which had a suitable hard base for the tank to sit 
on, and that they only went ahead with the move as they were of the opinion that AXA were  
paying for it.   
When our investigator considered the complaint she felt that AXA had done enough already 
by offering £200 compensation.  She was satisfied from what shed seen that Mr and Mrs F 
hadnt suffered  any additional loss as a result  of the mistake  and that they would have 
proceeded as they had done to locate the tank in its new site anyway.
Ref: DRN69133192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the conclusion reached  by 
the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Its always difficult in cases like this to make  a decision  which  is based on what  is thought to 
be most likely  to have happened  if different circumstances  had prevailed. I have sympathy 
for the position  in which Mr and Mrs F found  themselves.  They were told, on more  than one 
occasion, that AXA would contribute to the cost of a new base  for the tank. 
I think, though  that its worth commenting  that I havent seen evidence of how much AXA 
was likely to contribute.  
I can see what the claims handler was trying  to explain  when  making the offer to help with 
the costs. She assumed  that there  was a saving to be had in not repairing an existing 
damaged base and that the saving  could be transferred to help pay for the new site. It turned 
out that the base was in fact the structures floor and it did need to be repaired as part of the 
claim for the buildings  damage. So there wasnt any saving to be passed on. 
As insurers benefit from advantageous  terms with contractors that would normally mean that 
the money saved  would be quite a bit less than it would  cost a policy holder to employer a 
contractor themselves. So I would have expected that what AXA were suggesting was 
probably only that some form of contribution  would  be likely to the costs  to be incurred. Im 
not sure whether that was made  clear to Mr and Mrs F but I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest that they were told explicitly that AXA would pay for the total costs.  
In any event, Mr and Mrs F say they only proceeded based  on this promise. And theyve said 
that they werent financially  in a position  to pay for the costs themselves. 
AXAs contractors explained a number of options to Mr and Mrs F for a permanent solution  
to the siting of the new oil tank. They say that of these, the one that was taken was the 
cheapest. 
Mr and Mrs F have  argued that they would have chosen an alternative which was to leave  
the tank in a temporary position on their patio. They accept that it wasnt  ideal  but say that 
financially its what they would have done.  Ive seen a photograph of the tank on the patio. 
Its alongside their sitting  and barbeque area. I accept that this isnt impossible,  and I 
recognise that they might have had financial considerations that made  it necessary, but I 
cant conclude that this is a situation  which they would have been able to put up with for 
long. In fact, AXA argue that when their contractor first visited  the site they were  told that the 
decision had already been  taken  to move the tank to its final location, and AXA say that this 
is before  the claim had even been considered.
Mr and Mrs F say that isnt the case. But, again,  I have  to consider what I think to be the 
most likely outcome. 
Ultimately, I think  that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F would have moved the tank 
to its current location,  even if that had been slightly delayed and theyd maintained  the 
temporary location for a while. I dont therefore think that AXAs error meant that they 
incurred an additional  loss.
Ref: DRN69133193I think that AXAs apology  and the payment of £200  compensation is appropriate and if that 
payment hasnt been made yet then AXA should do so should Mr and Mrs F wish now to 
accept it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6913319