K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd (Aegon) paid him a withdrawal he 
requested from his pension plan in the wrong tax year. He says this meant he paid a higher 
rate of tax than he should have done and has affected his future plans. He wants  the 
additional tax hes paid to be refunded as soon as possible.
background
Mr C held a drawdown  plan with Aegon.  On  1 April 2019 he asked to make a withdrawal of 
£50,000 from the plan  for the following tax year. He was told to complete the necessary 
paperwork online but unfortunately this meant  the payment was made within  the 2018/2019  
tax year.  This meant he paid tax at the 40% rate when the withdrawal  was added to his 
previous earnings  in the tax year.
Mr C complained and Aegon acknowledged it had made  an error.  It asked Mr C to either 
repay the funds  to his plan so that it could correct the payment, or to contact HMRC  for a 
refund. But Mr C said the funds had already been  used  and HMRC said it was unable  to help 
as hed already  received a P45 document.
Aegon then said it would try to calculate the amount of tax due by comparing Mr Cs 
2018/2019 and 2019/2020 tax returns. This could be done approximately at that point or 
properly at end of the new tax year.  But Mr C wanted the overpayment of tax to be refunded  
then, so Aegon issued its final response  on the matter. It said HMRC were  unwilling to 
consider a refund so Aegon would:
Pay £750 for the trouble and upset the matter  had caused.
Consider refunding the over payment if Mr C could demonstrate that he would not 
have any earnings during 2019/2020.  If such evidence wasnt  available  and he had to 
use his savings or investments to achieve  his goals then it would consider any losses  
caused by having  to access that money.
Look at any evidence  for the reason he was unable to return the funds on 
11 April 2019.
Mr C didnt agree with the outcome.  He said the compensation  hed been  offered wasnt  
enough to make up for the tax hed overpaid.  And he said Aegon  hadnt accepted  the 
evidence hed provided to demonstrate that he wouldnt have earned income during the 
2019/2020 tax year. So he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators  looked 
into the matter.
He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld as he believed Aegon  had made  a fair and 
reasonable offer to ensure Mr C was put back as close to the position he would in had the 
tax been correctly deducted during the 2019/2020 tax year. 
He thought it was fair for Aegon to ask for evidence of Mr Cs tax position  and why hed 
been unable  to return the money  but overall thought  Aegons  offer was fair and 
reasonable.
But Mr C didnt agree.  He made the following points in asking for his complaint to be 
reconsidered.
Ref: DRN65843892The money hed lost because of the overpayment of tax meant he would need  to 
return to work  but his doctor said that wasnt practical, so he would probably  need 
further drawdowns from the plan.
As a result  the liability  would be offset  against  these drawdowns  and reduce Aegons 
liability.
Had Aegon applied due diligence  to his request he wouldnt have paid 40% tax on 
the withdrawal.
His own diligence in paying off his bills meant he couldnt return the money which  he 
believes allowed Aegon to avoid its liabilities.
He wanted  to know why he wasnt provided with records of phone  calls and other 
information hed requested.
He had asked  what evidence Aegon required to allow  it to repay the tax now. But he 
felt Aegon  made it clear it wouldnt resolve  the issue until the end of the new tax year.
So, as no resolution  could be found  the complaints been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Theres no dispute here that Aegon told Mr C to apply  for his withdrawal which it would  then 
pay in the 2019/2020  tax year. Aegon has accepted responsibility for the payment being 
made in the previous tax year and theres no dispute that Mr C paid higher rate tax on the 
withdrawal because of his total income  that year.
So what  I have to consider here is whether Aegons  offers to resolve the matter and 
compensate Mr C are fair and reasonable. Aegon has made  an offer with various  conditions  
attached, to refund Mr C the over payment  now  if he can provide evidence of (non)  
earnings for this tax year, or at the end of this tax year with evidence of his income. But 
Mr C says as it was Aegons error it should  repay him now regardless, especially as he can 
prove that he intended to take a year off work this tax year and would have no other 
earnings  thereby paying basic rate tax on the withdrawal  if it had been  made  as agreed in 
the 2019/2020 tax year.
Ive seen that Mr C first raised a complaint on 8 April 2019 which  was the first working day of 
the new tax year. At that point Mr C ought to have been aware that hed paid too much  tax 
according to his financial position  in the new tax year, so I would have expected him to have 
mitigated his position by holding onto the funds until he was able to clarify the position, which  
he did the next working day. 
At that point Aegon was able to offer a quick initial resolution. If Mr C could return  the funds 
Aegon would  reissue the payment based on his tax position at the beginning of 2019/2020. 
Unfortunately Mr C had already used his funds to repay bills and didnt have the necessary 
money left to return so this solution wasnt possible.  But I would have expected Mr C to have 
delayed his payments  until he could confirm  the taxation position  which  I think  he was 
aware of to some degree.
Thereafter only two solutions remained.  Either Aegon could refund the overpayment  at that 
point or it needed  to agree to adjust any overpayment at the end of the new tax year 
depending on the total income Mr C received. Mr C says he wasnt due to receive any 
Ref: DRN65843893income in the new tax year as he planned   because of his health  not to work and to live 
abroad, using  the money from his pension plan to live off.
And I have  some sympathy  for Mr Cs position  here.  It wasnt his error that caused an over 
payment of tax and he has provided some evidence  to show aspects  of his travel, 
accommodation and lack of income in the tax year. But I dont think  this evidence  is sufficient 
to confirm that he wouldnt receive  any income at all in the tax year. Mr C hasnt been told he 
cant work, simply that its advisable to have some time off. But circumstances can change 
and I cant safely say Mr C will not have any income  this tax year.
So it follows  that I cant safely tell Aegon to make a refund of tax to Mr C now, based on the 
evidence hes provided. I think  it would be very difficult  for Mr C to provide any persuasive 
evidence to show he wont  receive any income  this tax year, but thats because hes not 
prevented from doing so. In the circumstances  I dont think it would  be fair to ask Aegon to 
make the payment, as if the situation  were to change  and Mr C did receive  some  income  
then any refund Aegon might  have made  would  be incorrect and it would have  to try to re- 
adjust the tax payment again  with Mr C. In the circumstances I dont think  that would be fair 
on either party. 
But Aegon has offered to compensate Mr C in full for any over payment, albeit by looking at 
his total income  at the end of the 2019/2020 tax year,  calculating  the tax that would have 
been due on his withdrawal if it had been made  in that tax year and comparing against  the 
extra tax that Mr C paid on the withdrawal in the previous  tax year.  I know Mr C believes this 
allows Aegon to reduce its liabilities overall and he doesnt  think it ensures Aegon  puts its 
error right. But I dont  agree.  My role here is to ensure that Mr C is put as close to the 
position he would be in now had Aegon not made  an error.  And if Aegon  calculates the 
position Mr C would  be in at the end of the 2019/2020 tax year,  allowing for the income hes 
received over the last two years, then I believe he will be as close to that position as he can 
be. 
As I previously explained the other  alternatives  of either returning the funds  or calculating the 
overpayment without  actual evidence of the 2019/2020 tax years income, arent  appropriate 
in the circumstances for the reasons given. So I think this offer is a fair and reasonable one 
and puts Mr C back as close  as possible to the position he should now be in.
I have considered whether Aegon should  pay Mr C interest on the amount of additional 
taxation he may have  paid. Thats  because  it will have held that money for over a year when 
Mr C could have had use of it. But Aegon has also agreed to compensate  Mr C for any loss 
hes suffered from having to access his savings or drawdown facility  to make up for the 
additional tax he had to pay. 
I think that will compensate for the loss of interest because Aegon  will either  have to redress 
any investment loss Mr C suffered from using his drawdown facility  or the interest he might 
have lost from using  his savings. Aegon has provided evidence of the additional drawdown 
payments its made to Mr C, in part to offset the additional tax paid. So it seems fair that 
Aegon should compensate Mr C for the loss of any investment growth and any additional 
costs involved in the drawdown payments he received  to cover the additional tax he paid in 
April 2019.
  
Mr C says this error has meant  he could  no longer  continue with his plan of living abroad for 
a year and had to return to the UK. And I have  some sympathy  for the effect Aegons error 
had on Mr Cs plans, which Im sure would have caused him frustration and disappointment. 
But I note Aegon has offered £750  for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused. Ive 
Ref: DRN65843894carefully considered  this offer,  and the impact  of the Aegons error  on Mr Cs situation, and 
overall I think the sum offered  is at least at the higher end of the range of what  Id expect  to 
see for an error such as this. So Im not going to ask Aegon to do any more.
Summary
Ultimately Aegon made an error here in paying  Mr Cs pension  income  withdrawal request in 
the wrong tax year, causing tax to be deducted  at the higher rate. But it acknowledged this 
error and tried to resolve the matter by taking back the payment and reissuing it  but Mr C 
no longer had the funds available. So Aegon, after it established HMRC wouldnt allow  any 
back payments to be made, offered to:
Make  a tentative immediate repayment of any additional tax that was paid based on 
an expectation of Mr Cs income for 2019/2020.
Make  a full payment  of any overpaid  tax at the end of the following tax year upon  
receipt of Mr Cs income history  for the year. And to refund any costs or redress  any 
loss of growth/interest caused  by Mr C having to use his personal savings or 
drawdown plan to generate the income  necessary  to cover the cost of the additional 
tax he had to pay in 2018/2019. 
Pay £750 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Aegon also explained that if it had paid Mr C in the 2019/2020 tax year as requested,  it 
would have paid him on a month  1 basis as required by HMRC. This may also have led to 
Mr C needing to apply  a for tax refund at the end of the tax year, especially if he didnt earn 
any income. 
So I think Aegons offer to balance up any overpayment of tax from 2018/2019,  based  on 
Mr Cs income  from the 2019/2020 tax year, with the addition of any costs or lost growth 
incurred by accessing  further  income to cover  that additional tax  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.   The costs  or lost growth should apply to the income that needed  to be 
generated to cover  the additional taxation  only. And I think the payment of £750  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable, so Im not going to tell Aegon to 
do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint, in so much as I think  
AEGON Investment Solutions  Ltds offer of resolution is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
So AEGON  Investment Solutions Ltd should now work through  its offer with Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Ref: DRN65843895Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6584389