K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that TSB Bank  plc wont refund  money they lost when they fell victim 
to a scam.  
background
I issued a provisional decision  which is attached to and forms part of this final decision, on 
6 August 2021.  In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  the 
complaint. I asked both parties to send me anything else they wanted me to consider  before 
I issued my final decision by 27 August 2021.
TSB didnt  respond  with any further points it wanted me to consider. Mr and Mrs M 
responded to say they didnt agree with my provisional decision and, in summary, raised the 
following points;
-Referring to a contact note in the evidence TSB provided, Mr and Mrs M want  the 
bank to be held accountable for the fact that one of its employees put a note on its 
system confirming a payment was valid, without contacting them.  
-Mr and Mrs M say, given in my provisional  decision  I have found that TSB ought to 
have intervened but didnt, that the Bank  did not follow the expected  Code and 
therefore should be held to account.
-By not contacting Mr and Mrs M, TSB has denied  the opportunity for the 
Ombudsmans theory to be tested.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to maintain  
my decision  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why below.
I do understand that this has been  a very emotional and upsetting experience  for Mr and Mrs 
M, especially  considering what theyve told us about how the loss of this money will impact 
their plans moving forward. So, I am all the more sorry,  to have to tell Mr and Mrs M that I 
dont think their complaint  should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said they feel TSB should be held accountable  for a note being put on 
TSBs systems confirming  a payment was valid, without  contacting them beforehand. I do 
understand that it is frustrating for Mr and Mrs M that further detail cant be provided about  
how or why this note was added to TSBs systems.  I cant say with any certainty  whether it 
was added in error,  but in any event I dont  think this note being  added,  in itself, impacts the 
decision I have reached on this complaint. This is because, as Ive explained,  I dont think it 
made a material difference that Mr and Mrs M were not contacted,  before the payments 
were released. 
I think its worth noting that I dont  have the power to fine or punish a financial business, just 
because it did something wrong (thats the role of the regulator). I do have the power  to 
require a business to put things right if something did go wrong that had a detrimental effect 
on a consumer(s). So I need to look at what would have happened,  or what  I think  is more  
likely than not to have happened, had there been  no wrongdoing  because  there  are times 
Ref: DRN69655502where a financial  business does something  wrong, but where I dont consider it makes a 
difference, which is the case here.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, I do think TSB ought to have  intervened and had a 
conversation with Mr and Mrs M at the time they were attempting  to make a payment for 
£100,000. But even if it had intervened and spoken to Mr and Mrs M at the time the payment 
was being made (or when  the note mentioned above was added),  I dont  think  I can fairly  or 
reasonably say that it would more likely than not have made  a difference, and stopped Mr 
and Mrs M from going ahead with the payments they intended to make. 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided detailed testimony and explained throughout how much  
research they carried out about the investment they were intending to make, so I think  they 
held a genuine belief that they were dealing  with a legitimate company. This scam also 
carried many  sophisticated features, where  fraudsters had been able to clone a legitimate 
firm. Considering the belief I think Mr and Mrs M had that this was genuine,  along  with the 
sophistication of the scam, I dont think there was enough opportunity here for either  Mr and 
Mrs M, or TSB, to have recognised that Mr and Mrs M may have been  at risk of financial 
harm.  
Overall, for the reasons  Ive explained  here and in my provisional  decision, I cant fairly or 
reasonably say that Mr and Mrs Ms loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf  of 
TSB, so I cant fairly ask TSB to refund them. I understand  what  an impact,  of losing such  of 
lot of money,  to such a cruel scam, must  have  had on Mr and Mrs M. And I want to say how 
sorry I am for the situation they have found themselves in and that it has taken this long for 
them to receive  an answer on their complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2021.
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69655503COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION  
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that TSB Bank  plc wont refund  money they lost when they fell victim 
to a scam.  
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs M fell victim  to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
Following Mr M receiving  a lump sum from his pension, Mr and Mrs M were looking to invest,  
with a longer-term  view that the funds  would be used to pay off their mortgage. Mr and Mrs 
M have said they researched a number of investments and when looking at the website of a 
company, who Ill refer to as KH, a pop-up  appeared asking if Mr and Mrs M would like to be 
contacted to discuss potential investments further.  KH is a legitimate investment company  
and Mr M was looking at KHs  genuine website, but unknown to him at the time the pop-up 
was from a fraudster.
Mr M accepted the invitation and then received a call. Following this initial  call, Mr and Mrs M 
have said they remained in contact with the fraudster(s), by email and phone over a number 
of weeks, from September  2018,  and received branded emails and literature regarding  the 
products available. Mr and Mrs M were presented with an investment opportunity for a one-
year bond  in a well-known  water company, with an interest rate of 5.296%.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us they were persuaded by the legitimacy of KH and the product 
they had been offered, theyve told us the success of the fraud was heavily influenced by;
-KH identity and brand  being  used on all correspondence
-Mr M had been exploring different  fixed term bonds and a pop-up  appeared when  he 
was browsing  KHs genuine  website
-The email  address the fraudsters used appeared to belong  to KH
-The fraudsters  were  professional in their approach and offered financial advice
-The amount of research undertaken to check out KH and the degree of discussion with 
the fraudsters over a matter of weeks  including Mr M exploring and confirming the 
legitimacy of the bond with the well-known water company  and speaking  with a friend,  in 
the industry, who confirmed they were a well-known  company
-The bank account named appeared to be for KH
-Communication  continued after the initial payment
Mr and Mrs M have  said they thought they were purchasing  a bond from a legitimate 
company and that all the emails they received  appeared to come from KH. Mr and Mrs M 
have said as everything seemed legitimate, they went ahead  and invested.
On 1 October 2018, Mr and Mrs M initially tried to make a payment for £100,010.95, but the 
payment was declined.  Ive seen from TSBs  online notes, that a payment of £50,000 was 
attempted shortly after, but again  this was declined. There is no evidence  of any interaction 
Ref: DRN69655504with TSB and Mr and Mrs M at this point. The payments were declined as they breached 
daily transfer limits.
Mr M explained to the fraudsters that, due to online transfer limits, he was only allowed to 
transfer a maximum of £25,000 at a time  so he told the fraudsters hed made an initial  
payment of £24,010.95 and would pay the remaining balance of the investment over the next 
four days. Mr M went ahead and made payments  totalling £100,010.95,  a breakdown  of the 
payments is below;
Date Transaction Amount
1/10/2018 Online banking transfer £24,010.95
2/10/2018 Online banking transfer £20,000
3/10/2018 Online banking transfer £20,000
4/10/2018 Online banking transfer £20,000
5/10/2018 Online banking transfer £16,000
After each payment  Mr M received an email  from the fraudsters, confirming receipt of the 
payment and a statement of account was received once all of the payments had been 
received.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M were going  through plans  for their future finances and 
attempted to call and email KH, but found  the number had been discontinued and the email 
bounced back. Following this Mr M contacted  KH on the number on their website  it was 
following this call that Mr and Mrs M realised they had been victims to a scam. 
Mr and Mrs M reported the fraud to TSB on 28 January 2019,  TSB tried to retrieve  the funds 
from the receiving bank account,  but no funds remained. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to TSB. In summary  they were unhappy  with TSBs response to the 
fraud case and the level of security checks it had performed when  the payments were  made.  
They were  unhappy  that the payments were not flagged as unusual account  activity. TSB 
issued its final response on 11 March 2019.  It said Mr and Mrs M had made  the payments 
willingly and it had tried to recover the money from the receiving bank account, but no funds 
remained. It said that it was confident it had not made a mistake. It added that Mr and Mrs M 
had dealt with investments  previously and it did not feel there  had been  a compromise.
Mr and Mrs M then brought  their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  
into things. Our investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She thought the payments Mr 
and Mrs M made were  not usual, compared  to the usual activity  on their account,  and so she 
would have expected TSB to have contacted Mr and Mrs M to ask questions  about the 
payments. Our investigator thought, had this happened, Mr and Mrs M would have re-
considered making  the payment, undertaken further research and ultimately  wouldnt have 
then gone ahead with the payments.
Mr and Mrs M agreed with our investigators opinion. TSB disagreed  with our investigators 
view. It said there had been  no bank error  and it didnt think  its systems should have 
triggered. But it added, had they done  so, it was not convinced it is more  likely than not the 
fraud would have been uncovered, as Mr and Mrs M would have  explained the reasons for 
the payments  and it thinks Mr and Mrs M would have been confident with the payments, 
given they had done their research.
Ref: DRN69655505The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  Having  reviewed  the case I sent my initial 
thoughts to Mr and Mrs M, which I shared with TSB, explaining that I was minded to reach a 
different outcome to our investigator.  In summary, I thought  the payment Mr and Mrs M 
attempted, for £100,010.95, was not typical of how they usually ran their account  and I 
thought TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened. But I didnt think, on balance,  
an intervention would have made a difference, as I considered  Mr and Mrs M would have 
more likely than not been satisfied that they were  making a payment for a legitimate 
investment. I explained to Mr and Mrs M that I wasnt  minded to uphold their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my initial  thoughts, in summary  they said;
-they didnt agree TSB acted reasonably  at the time, or in line with usual  procedures
-that some banks  check accounts into which such sums are being made
-larger  payments they had made  previously  were not for investments,  but to builders/kitchen 
suppliers etc. and it would have been  apparent  these were not investments
-they explained Mr M is not an experienced dealer of stocks and shares
-they do not accept  that the payments  were  not out of character to how their account is 
usually run
-they referred  to another  consumers bank having  intervened and prevented a payment 
for a similar fraud
-they also referred  to other decisions issued by this service
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to take 
into account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
It is important  to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service,  set up as a free 
alternative to the courts  for consumers. In deciding  this complaint Ive focused on what  I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue  or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, it reflects the informal nature  of 
our service,  its remit and my role in it. And just because  I may not mention  something,  it 
doesnt mean that I havent considered it. 
I know Mr and Mrs M have referred to other decisions issued by our service. But I would 
point out that, while  on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is 
determined by its own individual  circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at 
the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs M, and I can understand entirely  why 
they feel so strongly  that this money should  be returned to them,  and I dont underestimate 
the impact theyve explained this fraud  has had on them. But having thought very carefully 
about TSBs actions, while I think it ought  to have intervened  and spoken  to Mr and Mrs M 
when they attempted to make a payment for around  £100,000, I consider that even  if it had 
done so Im not persuaded it is more likely than not it wouldve made a difference and 
stopped Mr and Mrs M from going ahead with the payments  they made. I also dont think it 
could have done any more than it did to try and recover the money.   
Ref: DRN69655506So having  considered everything, Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for them, but I dont  think  I can fairly  say TSB should 
reimburse them the money  they have unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story  and taking  into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider TSB should  fairly and reasonably:
-Have been  monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).  This is particularly  
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years which banks are 
generally more familiar  with than the average  customer.
-In some  circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make  additional checks,  before processing  a payment,  or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of 
financial harm  from fraud. 
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with
Mr and Mrs M, when  they made  transfers to a fraudster  and when  they reported the fraud, or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
Mr and Mrs M have  accepted that they authorised the transfers themselves. Because  of this, 
TSB had an obligation to follow their instruction. But there are some  situations in which it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained,  I consider  that as a matter of good  practice TSB shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
Ive first thought about whether I think TSB should have made enquiries about the 
payment(s) before processing them. I can see Mr M initially  tried to make  the payment of just 
over £100,000 in one go  but this was prevented. Im mindful that Mr and Mrs M has said 
TSB turned off a fraud alert without any contact being made.  Ive seen  evidence  of a contact 
note from TSB, from 3 October 2019,  which says Blocks  Removed  transaction  confirmed 
as genuine. TSB hasnt  provided any other contemporaneous notes relating to this, which is 
unfortunate in the circumstances. But it has confirmed Mr and Mrs Ms attempt to make the 
payment in one go, was not stopped  as a result of a fraud block, it was due to the payment 
exceeding the internet banking transaction faster payment daily limit of £25,000. And it has 
Ref: DRN69655507added that this would not have triggered  any subsequent fraud blocks,  as it was not a fraud 
check preventing the c.£100,000 being  sent in one go. 
But in any event, neither Mr and Mrs M, nor TSB,  has suggested there was any interaction 
between them, at the time any of the payments were made  so I am satisfied and have no 
reason to doubt that was the case.  But for reasons Ill go on to explain,  Im persuaded that, 
even if there  had been an intervention and a conversation had taken  place, I dont think its 
more likely than not that it would have  made  a difference.  
Having looked  through Mr and Mrs Ms account statements for the months leading  up to the 
transactions, I can see there are some larger transactions, ranging up to £15,000 and some 
that appear to be for investments. However, where  Mr and Mrs M have set up a new payee 
and attempted  to make a payment of over £100,000,  that would have cleared around 80% of 
the account balance, I consider this to be unusual for them and not typical  of how they ran 
their account. I would also add that, from what Ive seen, I dont think  it is evident that Mr and 
Mrs M were experienced investors.
As Ive said,  I dont think the payment  Mr and Mrs M were  making  for around  £100,000 was 
typical of their usual account  activity,  and I think there was an opportunity  here for TSB to have 
intervened and spoken to Mr and Mrs M, before allowing the payment to be processed. Ultimately  
this payment, for just over £100,000, was declined,  because  it breached  TSBs transfer limits. I 
can also see that a payment  of £50,000 was attempted just a couple  of minutes later,  but this 
also didnt go through, presumably  again  because it breached transfer  limits. Where  Mr and Mrs 
M then go on to make  a payment of around  £24,000, shortly  after,  I think  again there was enough 
suspicious activity on Mr and Mrs Ms account, that I think  it was fair and reasonable that TSB 
ought to have intervened before allowing this payment to be made.   
Where I find TSB ought to have intervened, this in itself isnt enough  for me to say that TSB 
should refund the money Mr and Mrs M have lost. I also need  to be persuaded that its 
intervention would have made a difference and prevented  the payments from being made. I 
have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what  I think is more likely 
than not to have  happened,  taking into account what I know. 
So Ive gone  on to think about what difference an intervention would have made  here.  
Having thought carefully about this, I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably say that it would 
more likely than not have made  a difference and prevented Mr and Mrs M from making the 
payments and Ill explain why. 
If TSB had spoken to Mr and Mrs M when they attempted  to make the initial payment of 
c.£100,000, Ive no reason to doubt  that theyd have  told TSB the purpose of the payment 
was to invest. TSB shouldnt have just accepted the reason for the payment at face value 
before releasing  the funds. At the time of the scam  it ought  to have been aware of the 
prevalence of investment scams, even upon  establishing that Mr and Mrs M were intending 
on investing with what appeared  to be a genuine  investment firm. So Ive thought about the 
sorts of follow up questions TSB shouldve asked, to reassure themselves Mr and Mrs M 
likely werent  at risk of financial harm.
It is worth explaining that fraud and fraudsters methods  continually  evolve over time, as in 
turn does a banks  awareness of different types of scams and the tactics  fraudsters use to 
defraud their victims. So in considering this complaint, I have  to think  about  what I can 
reasonably have expected a bank to have been aware of and on the lookout for at the time 
these payments were  made. At the point these  payments were made the most typical 
Ref: DRN69655508hallmarks of cloned  investment  scams  involved victims being  cold called, being offered 
returns that were too good to be true and being pressured.
With this in mind Id have  expected TSB to ask Mr and Mrs M some questions  about the 
payment, in the context of the particular features of an investment scam. For example, TSB 
could have asked  questions such as, but not limited to, what  the payment was for, whether 
Mr and Mrs M had been looking to invest, what  research had they done,  whether they had 
been cold called and what rate of return they were being offered. Had TSB asked  these, or 
similar questions, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs M would have been able to confidently  answer 
these questions without  concerning TSB they might be victims  of a scam. While Im not 
suggesting they were  experienced investors,  I think it more likely  than not they would have 
been able to explain they were looking to invest, had researched both the company and the 
type of bond they were investing  in and had checked this out with somebody in the industry. 
Its fair to say the scam  that Mr and Mrs M fell victim  to was highly sophisticated for its time 
and didnt carry the obvious hallmarks of the type of investment scam I can reasonably have 
expected TSB to have been  on the look out at the time. Mr and Mrs M werent cold-called 
and they werent  being offered a rate of return that would have appeared to be too good to 
be true. They were also looking at a legitimate  firms website (not a website that had been  
copied). Alongside this, Mr and Mrs M were not being pressured.  So even if TSB had told Mr 
and Mrs M about investment scams,  and then asked the sorts of questions Ive suggested  
above, I dont  think it would have been  concerned  that Mr and Mrs M were at risk, as the 
triggers I would reasonably have expected it to be on the lookout for at the time, werent 
obviously apparent  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
Im persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers  Mr and Mrs M are likely to 
have given would have been sufficient  to reassure TSB Mr and Mrs M werent at risk of 
financial harm. From the information Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what 
was happening I think Mr and Mrs M would have been confident they were making a 
payment that was legitimately to buy a bond  from what seemed like a legitimate source.  
Considering this alongside the answers I think Mr and Mrs M would have  given to any 
questions, the level of the research that Mr and Mrs M have  told us they carried out, the 
persuasiveness of the literature and communication they had with the fraudsters and 
considering the sophistication of how the fraud was engineered, I dont think  TSB ought fairly 
and reasonably to have  been concerned that Mr and Mrs M may have been  at risk of 
financial harm.  
Even if I considered that, at the time,  it would  have been reasonable to have expected  TSB 
to have signposted Mr and Mrs M to check out the company  on the FCA register, Im not 
persuaded this would likely have deterred  Mr and Mrs M from proceeding with the payment 
as the company was registered to trade.  I can see a warning was added  to the FCAs 
website noting  this particular cloned  investment  scam  but this wasnt  until June 2019,  so 
wasnt information that TSB, or Mr and Mrs M would  have been aware of at the time. 
 
Ive gone on to think about  whether TSB did what it shouldve done once Mr and Mrs M had 
reported the matter  to it. Ive looked  into attempts TSB made to recover  the money, once it 
was aware of the scam.  In order for me to be able to fairly ask TSB to refund the money,  I 
need to be satisfied it should  have  acted sooner in trying to recover the money than it did. 
And if I dont  think it acted soon enough,  I need to decide whether  it made  any difference. In 
this case I can see the money  had unfortunately already left the receiving account by the 
Ref: DRN69655509time Mr and Mrs M reported the fraud  to TSB.  So, it wasnt  able to recover  the money Mr 
and Mrs M had paid, because it had already been  removed  from the recipients account.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M have said about the receiving bank being in a different 
name, to who they were  expecting to pay and had indicated on their payment instruction.  
At the time the payment(s) was made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique 
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement  for TSB 
to check the beneficiary  account any further.  So I cant  fairly  say that TSB didnt follow  Mr 
and Mrs Ms instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and I am not persuaded it should  have  done more  to check the beneficiary  name  
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment that Im not intending to uphold  this complaint, 
especially as our investigator had recommended a different outcome. But we operate  a two-
stage process. That is if either  party  Mr and Mrs M or TSB - was unhappy with our 
investigators decision they could appeal it to an ombudsman.  And thats what happened in 
this case. And, in every case I look at I consider all the evidence independently. I then come 
to my own conclusions about  what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome, this can 
on occasions be different  to the view of investigators,  as is the case  here. 
I am sorry  that Mr and Mrs M have  lost this money, to what  is a cruel  and highly 
sophisticated scam. But for the reasons Ive explained I cant  fairly or reasonably  ask TSB to 
refund the money Mr and Mrs M have lost. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against 
TSB Bank plc.
Ref: DRN6965550