K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  allowed  over £51,000 to debit 
his account without his authority or consent.  Hes unhappy that Nationwide has refused to 
refund these disputed  transactions.
background
Mr F opened a current account  with Nationwide on 15 May 2017.  Mr F confirms he held a 
genuine account with a gambling company - J. He says that in the early  hours of 30 May 
2017 he requested withdrawals of his winnings from J to be paid to his Nationwide  account. 
£51,836 was credited  into Mr Fs Nationwide account from J.
After the deposits  into Mr Fs Nationwide  account, funds totalling £53,221.99, were spent 
with J. Mr F disputes all of the transactions to J from his Nationwide account that occur on 
31 May 2017.
Below are the timings of the transactions and online banking activity which took place on 
Mr Fs Nationwide  account:
Mobile and online  log-ins to Mr Fs Nationwide account:
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction
30/05/17 21:50  23:56 Online banking  log ins Mobile device &  computer
31/05/17 00:41  04:29 Online banking log ins Mobile device & computer
31/05/17 07:27  14:48 Online banking log ins Mobile device & computer
31/05/17 17:00  23:45 Online banking log ins Mobile device & computer
01/06/17 02:59 Online banking log in Mobile device & computer
01/06/17 12:02 Online banking log in Mobile device & computer
Transactions to J from Mr Fs Nationwide account
Date Time Value range Type of transaction
31/05/17 12:55  22:18 79 successful payments 
ranging between  £25 - £2kCard payments to J 
Mr F says the transactions and mobile/computer log-ins during this time were not made by 
him and that his details were compromised  by a scam HMRC text. He says his computer 
was remotely accessed during a cold call where he was told he had a virus on his laptop.  He 
says his phone was cloned as well. 
He says his accounts with various  other companies  have also been hacked and hes taken 
up disputes with them. Mr F has provided a range  of emails, screenshots and receipts to 
show how he thinks this could have  happened.
Mr F also complains  about the way Nationwide treated him throughout the investigation  of 
the disputed transactions. 
Ref: DRN64855502In its final response Nationwide said its records show that Mr F accessed  his account on 
both his computer  and his mobile device (using  finger print ID) during the period of the 
disputed transactions  and didnt report the spending  on his account at the time. It also said 
the IP addresses  used for the disputed transactions matched that of Mr Fs genuine use with 
J. Nationwide held Mr F liable for the transactions on the basis  that he wouldve been aware 
of the transactions when logging into his mobile  banking and didnt report them. 
Nationwide also commented that it didnt feel it had been rude or treated Mr F unfairly when  
dealing with his calls about the disputed  transactions.
Nationwide gave Mr F two weeks notice and closed his account in July 2017. 
Unhappy with Nationwides final response Mr F brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things  and concluded that Nationwide  hadnt made any error in 
holding Mr F liable for the transactions. He said that whilst Mr F had provided a lot of 
information about his laptop, internet connection and mobile phone this didnt evidence  that 
they had been hacked in order for these transactions  to have occurred. He concluded that 
on balance it was more  likely than not that Mr F carried out these transactions  himself  and 
so he felt Nationwides conclusions werent unreasonable. 
Mr F didnt  accept these findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So 
the complaint  has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Mr F is adamant that he didnt carry out these transactions and I can see he has gone to 
great lengths to provide as much  information  as possible  about what he thinks  mightve  
happened. Ive looked at that evidence,  the evidence from Nationwide  and the 
circumstances surrounding  the transactions to reach  my conclusions. 
In short,  Nationwide  is required  to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  (the PSRs  
2009). Mr F says he didnt  make  any of these payments  to J from his Nationwide account 
and is seeking  a refund of £53,221.99. So my primary concern is to come  to a view about  
whether or I not I think Mr F authorised the payment.  
the evidence Mr F has provided
I agree  with the investigator that the evidence provide  by Mr F to demonstrate  his laptop and 
phone were hacked is inconclusive. Mr F explained  that his phone had a fault but that 
doesnt show it was hacked. Mr F has provided  evidence he took his laptop for assessment 
but this again doesnt show that the laptop was compromised only that he took his laptop to 
be assessed and there  was evidence of some malware on the laptop. 
I accept that there is evidence of malware on Mr Fs laptop but I have  to balance that against 
the other evidence and this doesnt  show what the malware was used for, how long it had 
been on the laptop and whether it coincides  with the timing of the disputed  withdrawals.
Ref: DRN64855503Mr F has also reported the incident  to the police  and action fraud  and feels  he has provided 
everything he can. 
I appreciate all the evidence Mr F has provided and the lengths he has gone to provide as 
much as he can. But I cant consider this evidence in isolation and having considered 
everything I dont think that these  transactions were carried out without Mr Fs consent or 
authority. 
the disputed transactions with J
Mr F confirms there are genuine payments on his account to J on 30 May 2017  and many 
others before this date. Mr F opened his account with J a month  prior to these transactions.  
Overall he deposited  over £54,000  into the account and made bets and wagered  significant 
sum before the genuine withdrawals to his Nationwide account on 30 May 2017.  As an 
example Mr F accrued winnings of £32k on 27 May and then placed bets using these funds 
and depleting  his balance to zero on the same  day.
J has provided evidence  of the gambling  transactions on Mr Fs account. This evidence  
shows that the type of bets Mr F was making  throughout  April and May were similar to those 
that he is disputing  on 31 May 2017. The transactions are also at a similar  time that Mr F has 
made genuine gambling transactions and at a similar frequency.  The pattern of spending on 
the account with J doesnt  look unusual and is similar,  in my opinion, to Mr Fs usual use of 
the account.
Mr F withdraws the funds  from J at approximately 2.50am on 30 May. Then there is activity  
on the account with J at approximately  12pm  on 30 May. This continues until approximately  
1pm that day. Then there is activity on the account again at midnight on 31 May. There is 
further activity on the account with J using a mixture of free plays  and very low level 
wagers until a deposit of £25 at approximately 1am then this is depleted to a zero balance  at 
around 1.30am.  At 5.40pm on 31 a £100 deposit  is added to the account with J and play 
continues then until 10pm that same day. This is when the disputed  deposits increase as 
bets are placed,  almost  continually through this time. Having reviewed this activity,  as Ive 
said, it looks very similar to Mr Fs genuine  pattern of activity on his account  with J. 
In addition to the above  evidence I have also considered some of the events around the 
transactions which cant be explained by Mr Fs version of events. 
-Mr F had just deposited over £50k  into his Nationwide account. Theres no 
explanation how an unknown fraudster wouldve been aware that this money  had just 
been deposited into his account. And it seems  unlikely that a fraudster decided  to 
hack his accounts  at this time to gain access to these funds when previously there  
had only been  a maximum of almost  £600 in his account. 
-If someone other than Mr F did gain access to his account theres no benefit  to a 
fraudster or someone else to spend  this money  back with the same gambling  
company. It would be unusual for a fraudster to do this rather than try to withdraw the 
money or attempt  to transfer it or spend  it on goods or services  to gain the most 
benefit, especially  if they have access to his online banking  log information and 
access to his mobile app. And the types of games played with J would be of no 
benefit to a fraudster   either  the house wins or the funds return  to the same  account 
they were deposited with.
Ref: DRN64855504-Mr Fs phone, laptop and gambling  account  all needed to be hacked at the same time 
in order for this to be successful. Whilst I accept this is possible,  I dont think  this is 
the most  likely explanation, especially  as the spending was back to a gambling 
website with no obvious benefit  to the fraudsters (any winnings would go back  to the 
same account which the fraudster  already  has access to  if Mr Fs version of events 
is correct). 
-There is no explanation how the finger print authorisation was used on Mr Fs phone 
 by someone other than Mr F - to log into his mobile banking  during the time of the 
disputed transactions.  Even if I were to accept that Mr Fs devices were remotely 
access or hacked in some  way this doesnt  explain how Mr Fs fingerprint was used 
to authenticate the mobile log-ins,  which happened during the time of the disputed 
transactions. I think its more likely this was Mr F logging  in during  this time.
Nationwides investigation and contact with Mr F. 
Mr F says he feels he was attacked by Nationwide during  the calls he had with them and 
that this caused  him stress. 
Ive listened to those calls and I can hear Mr F is frustrated but I think  thats  about  the 
situation he found himself him rather than Nationwide  being  at fault with the way it handled 
things with him. 
Mr F says Nationwide had a duty of care when allowing this amount of money  to leave his 
account. The investigator said its not for us to comment  on Nationwides  fraud  systems  and 
what transactions may trigger  it. Nationwide has provided evidence that these transactions 
were carried  out on the same device and using the same IP address that Mr F had genuinely 
used. The transactions were  also made  to a gambling account  with J that Mr F used 
previously and confirmed  with Nationwide as being genuine  which is perhaps why 
Nationwide didnt detect  these transactions as being suspicious. I agree  that these 
transactions do appear out of character  in terms of the other  spending from Mr Fs 
Nationwide account  (although it hadnt  been open for long so its difficult to determine  what 
he usual spending  would  have been). But ultimately  I dont agree that Nationwide  did 
anything wrong  in allowing these transactions to leave Mr Fs account as I believe they were 
genuinely made by Mr F.
Summary
Whilst I accept  its possible Mr Fs laptop,  mobile  and gambling account  couldve all been 
hacked in order  for a fraudster to spend this money.  Weighing  up everything, I dont think  
this is the most likely explanation for what happened. I think  its more  likely that Mr F carried  
out the transactions himself and therefore  Nationwides conclusions to hold Mr F liable for 
the transactions isnt an unreasonable one.
Ref: DRN64855505my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  date 2019.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6485550