K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R, who are represented by a third party, say Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy in February 2001 
to go with a mortgage theyd taken  out in June  1999. They  took the policy  out at the same  
time as they were  arranging some additional secured borrowing.
 
They say they werent given  a choice about taking  out the policy,  it wasnt  properly explained 
to them  and they didnt need  it. 
background
The PPI provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. Only Mr R was covered  
by the policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because Mr R had two jobs,  taking the view that if 
Mr R had lost one of those jobs he wouldnt be able to make a successful  PPI claim.
In my provisional decision dated  12 May 2021  I explained why I wasnt intending to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  for that reason and that I hadnt seen any other reason to think  
that the PPI had been mis-sold. I set out an extract  below:
Ive kept in mind  that the policy was sold on a non-advised  basis, so it was up to 
Mr and Mrs R to decide if the PPI was right for them.  However, Nationwide  still needed to 
provide them  with information  about  the PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading so they 
could make an informed  choice. Having looked  at the policy  document I think it did enough 
to make Mr and Mrs R aware of the main terms and conditions. 
The PPI cover that Mr R was applying for was positioned with him as including  
unemployment cover. I think that without any specialist knowledge of the terms of this 
specific policy, Mr R would have understood that to have a successful claim using his 
unemployment cover, its most likely that he would have had to be not working at all. Ive 
seen that Mr R only told us recently  about  having two jobs when he bought the PPI  and it 
wasnt mentioned  on the PPI or mortgage sale paperwork at the time. 
As Mr and Mrs R hadnt relied  on Mr Rs second  income when applying  for the extra  
borrowing  although  I see they mentioned it when arranging their mortgage in 1999  - its not 
clear what  weight this employment  would have  had in his mind at the time of taking on the 
PPI. And compared to his main income the income  this employment produced was modest. 
In any event, I dont think  Mr R would  have been put off this policy even if better  information  
about these terms  had been  provided.     
Mr R told us that the second job could  require him to work anywhere  between 10 and 30 
hours per week. But based  on the details hes given us of his earnings from that job, its 
likely that his hours were  a lot less than that  and certainly less than 16 hours  per week.  
That means that under the policy terms, the second  job was unlikely to meet the definition of 
employment under the terms of this policy and so had Mr R lost his main job, hed still be 
able to make  a claim for unemployment. 
Ref: DRN68152252It follows that, based on what Ive seen I simply  cant say that the policy terms would  have 
caused Mr R  to lose out if hed made an unemployment claim.  And Ive kept in mind that 
hed in any event  still be able to make a successful accident or sickness claim if he was 
unable to work as its likely he wouldnt be able to work in either job. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative confirmed receiving  my provisional  decision but had nothing  
further to add. Nationwide also said it had nothing  it wanted to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Nationwide has said it has nothing further to add and Mr and Mrs R and their representative  
havent come back to us with anything more. So, given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or information,  I wont  be departing from the finding I made in my provisional  
decision. It follows that, whilst I realise  this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, I 
wont be upholding their complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint and so theres nothing more  that Nationwide Building 
Society need to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6815225