K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP was irresponsible  to lend to her.
background
Miss A had a £300 loan from Uncle Buck on 1 March 2016 which was due to be repaid by 
31 May 2016, in three instalments. She says Uncle Buck didnt do enough  checks before it 
approved the loan and she was using the money  to pay essential bills as she had no income 
at the time. She says she took other  short-term  loans  at the same time but was never able to 
repay the Uncle Buck loan. Miss A says the loan has now been  referred  to a debt collection 
agency and Uncle Buck has recorded adverse information on her credit  file.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  Miss A about  her income  and expenditure  and verified the income 
figure she provided along with her employments  status. It says that the disposable income 
indicated the monthly  repayment of £151 was affordable. It adds that it also checked 
Miss As credit file and based upon all available  information it approved the loan. It says 
Miss A missed  her first scheduled  payment  on 31 March 2016 and made no further 
payments. Uncle  Buck  passed the account  to a debt collection agency on 12 June 2016.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Uncle 
Buck did enough  affordability checks and couldnt see there was anything  in the available  
information that indicated further checks were required, or that the loan was unaffordable.
Miss A responded to say, in summary,  that if Uncle Buck had done better checks  it would 
have realised she had lied about her source of income. She says Uncle Buck  acted 
irresponsibly by not doing so and approving  the loan.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss A and to Uncle Buck  on 16 January 2020.  I 
summarise my findings here:
Uncle Buck asked  Miss A about  her income  and expenditure  and found the £151 
loan repayments  were  affordable based  on her declared disposable income of £340;
I was satisfied that Uncle  Buck  was entitled to rely on the information provided by 
Miss A at such an early stage  in the lending process, even though  Miss A now says 
she lied about her income;
But Uncle Buck also had a credit report that showed Miss As declared  expenditure 
on credit commitments  was incorrect; 
The credit report showed Miss A had taken out a £950 loan less than a week  earlier 
on which she needed to make  monthly  repayments of £284;
I considered this should have prompted  Uncle Buck to ask Miss A specific  questions 
about other short-term loans,  but I couldnt see it did that;
Had it done so, Uncle Buck was likely to have  found a further £650 loan taken out the 
day before Miss A applied for the Uncle Buck loan;
That said, I considered Uncle Buck should have realised from its credit check  alone 
that the additional £284  repayment made its loan unaffordable.
So my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint about the loan.
Ref: DRN69099852Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that it relied upon the credit agencys definition  
which showed Miss A had no short  term loans. It added that as Miss A provided inaccurate  
information this could be considered application  fraud for which it is now being  penalised.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Uncle Buck says about the credit agencys definition  of short-term  loans, 
but it is also reasonable to assume  that an organisation  like Uncle  Buck should realise such  
loans are often categorised differently  within credit  reports. In this case, the £950 loan cited 
above showed on the credit report as an unsecured loan which  is very typical for short-term 
loans. So I still find Uncle Buck should  have  considered this in its lending decision.
With regard to the apparent false information  provided by Miss A, I cannot agree that Uncle 
Buck is being penalised  for this. As I said above, Uncle Buck  was entitled to rely on the 
information provided by Miss A and, had it not had clear  conflicting evidence that showed 
Miss As figures were incorrect, it would have been  entirely appropriate for Uncle Buck  to 
make its lending decision based upon  Miss As declared financial situation.
So, for the above reasons, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss As complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should:
Refund all interest and charges  that Miss A paid on the loan  if anything;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on refunds  from payment date to settlement date*;
Write off any unpaid  interest and charges for the loan, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding  and pay any balance to Miss A; 
Arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges  including any added by the third party;
Pay Miss A interest and charges she has already paid to the third party  plus 8% 
interest simple  per annum on each amount from payment date to settlement date;
Remove  any negative  information about  the loan from Miss As credit file.
Request the third party to remove adverse information it may have recorded  about 
the loan once  it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss A a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
Uncle Buck  intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding  capital  balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909985