K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold 
them a fee-paying packaged  bank  account.  They say the account was upgraded 
automatically without  their knowledge. Theyve also said they werent  given any alternative 
options, were living  abroad at the time and say that they had no use for the products 
provided. 
background
Mr and Mrs Rs account history  is as follows:
Mrs R opened a sole fee-free current account with NatWest   June 2006
Account changed  to a joint account  with Mr R  October 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Select Silver  account  November 2013
Mr R was also sold a fee-paying Select Silver  account on his sole account in December 
2013 and NatWest agreed  to refund the account fees Mr R paid for it as it essentially 
duplicated the benefits he was already  receiving  on the joint account.
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt  think that the joint Select Silver 
packaged account had been mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into account  
when considering this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R say that the account was upgraded without their knowledge. But NatWest has 
provided a copy of the application form which Mr R signed. So I dont think  that the account 
was upgraded  either automatically  or without their knowledge. 
Its possible that, because  only Mr R signed  the form, Mrs R might not have been present at 
the sale and may not have been aware of what Mr R had agreed  to. But generally  speaking 
joint account holders  can agree to account upgrades on behalf of the other  account  holder.  
So I dont  think that NatWest did anything wrong  by allowing the account to be upgraded 
without the presence  of both account  holders. 
Mr and Mrs R say that no alternative was offered to them.  But theyd held a fee-free account 
with NatWest for a number of years before it was upgraded.  So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs 
R were aware fee-free accounts were available.
In their original complaint  to NatWest Mr and Mrs R say that they were  told that if they 
wanted to keep their account they had to pay £10 per month. However, given that this 
contradicts their testimony  that the upgrade happened without their knowledge,  I cant  
reasonably concluded that what they say about no longer being able to have a fee-free 
account was more likely than not to have happened. I say this particularly as the application 
form Mr R signed also suggests  that it was pointed  out to Mr R during the sale that fee-free 
accounts were still available.
Ref: DRN60444632So overall, I think its more likely  that Mr R agreed to upgrade his joint account with Mrs R to 
a fee-paying Select Silver  account. And that its likely he did so knowing that it was optional  
and that they couldve  continued with a fee-free account, if they didnt want  the Select Silver 
account.
Looking at everything thats  available, I think that the account was sold on a non-advised 
basis. This means that NatWest didnt have to check if the account was right for Mr and Mrs 
R. But to help Mr and Mrs R decide for themselves whether to upgrade to the Select  Silver 
account, NatWest had to give Mr R important information about the account.
Its clear that Mr R was given some information  about the account. For example Mr and Mrs 
Rs testimony makes it clear that they were  aware of the £10 monthly fee. 
Its also clear  that the travel insurance benefit provided by the account  was also discussed 
with Mr R during the sale. The reason I say this is because the application form shows  that 
Mr R was asked if either  him or Mrs R had a pre-existing medical condition and he said that 
Mrs R did have one  which reflects what she has said in our questionnaire. The form then 
goes on to record that, when asked if Mr R wanted  to call the medical screening line (to see 
if Mrs Rs condition would be covered) he said no  presumably because  Mrs R wasnt 
present at the sale to be able to answer  the medical screening questions. The application 
form also suggests that it is likely that the key exclusions and limitations for the other 
benefits including mobile phone insurance and identity theft assistance were also discussed 
with him.  
I accept that NatWest might not have given Mr R all of the information it shouldve. But Ive 
not seen anything that makes me think that Mr R wouldve been put off from agreeing  to the 
upgrade had he been given more information about it.
Mr and Mrs R say they were living abroad  at the time, so they were not eligible for the travel 
insurance. But the application  form suggests  that Mr R was made aware of the fact that they 
would not be able to access any of the benefits if they do not live in the UK. And it says that 
at the time Mr R applied  for the account,  hed been  living in the UK for around 2 months. 
I also note that NatWest had a UK address registered for Mr and Mrs R at the time. And that 
Mr and Mrs R say that they returned to the UK around the time that Mr R took out his sole 
account  which was shortly after the Select  Silver sale - in December 2013. 
So I dont  think they were living abroad around the time of the upgrade, or if they were, they 
were likely to have  been aware  that theyd be moving back to the UK, and therefore able to 
use the account benefits, when Mr R agreed  to the Select Silver account  in November 2013.
Finally, Mr and Mrs R say that if Mr Rs sole packaged  account  was mis-sold then the joint 
packaged bank  account mustve also been mis-sold. But I dont think that is necessarily the 
case. On the contrary, I understand the only reason why the account fees on Mr Rs sole 
packaged account were refunded by NatWest  was because it duplicated the benefits he 
already had on his joint account.  
So taking everything into account I dont think that Mr and Mrs Rs Select  Silver  packaged  
account was mis-sold.  I therefore think that it would  be inappropriate to require NatWest to 
refund the account fees, as Mr and Mrs R have  requested.  
Ref: DRN60444633my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6044463