K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Mobile Money  Limited (MML)  lent to him irresponsibly  as the loans he 
was given were unaffordable.
background
Mr M entered into four loans with MML as follows:
date loan instalments period status
November 2015 1,000 91.90 18 months paid
April 2016 1,000 118.90 12 months paid
October 2016 1,100 101.15 18 months paid
June 2017 1,559.30 181.37 18 months In arrears
Each loan was secured on Mr Ms vehicle but Mr M says that none of these loans should 
have been provided as it should have been clear that he wasnt able to afford  them at the 
time.
MML disagreed. They  said theyd taken Mr Ms statement of income and expenditure in to 
account and that this showed he had sufficient disposable income  in each case.  Theyd also 
noted his good repayment history on earlier loans and that hed only appeared to get into 
some difficulty when  repaying his current loan. They  said that for the most  recent  loan they 
had requested copies of bank statements to establish income and that theyd looked at his 
credit file to review payments to other creditors. They explained  that they had never  been  
made aware  of any financial  difficulty Mr M had been experiencing and they didnt agree that 
theyd been irresponsible when lending the money  that they did.
But Mr M disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service for our adjudicator  to 
consider. She didnt  think any of the loans  had been provided irresponsibly. She noted that 
MML had completed a budget planner  with Mr M on each  application  and that this planner  
suggested there was sufficient disposable  income to afford  the repayments. She also noted  
that theyd completed  credit checks before  approving  each loan. She didnt think  these 
checks would have  given  cause for concern but when approving the final loan she 
recognised that MML would have identified defaults on Mr Ms credit file. She was satisfied  
that theyd handled this appropriately and that theyd discussed Mr Ms situation in depth  
with him. Having done so, she thought they had enough information to provide the loan 
responsibly.
Mr M disagreed and was still dissatisfied.  He said the loans he was taking were getting 
bigger on each occasion and he said MML should have paid more attention to the two 
defaults on his file in 2016. He explained  that it wasnt  only the loans provided by MML that 
he was struggling  to keep up with. He was also behind on other loans and he asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think, based on the information MML had available to them, that these loans were  
affordable. I know that will be really disappointing to Mr M but please  let me explain.
Ref: DRN61921882Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether MML  carried  out proportionate checks, 
and at what information they had been given about Mr Ms financial circumstances.
The methods MML  used to establish affordability  were for them  to decide but the practices  
and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be 
proportionate to the amount of money  being  requested.
Mr M was provided with four loans for sums between  £1,000  and £1,600. Whilst the loans  
werent small they werent large either and I would not expect MML to apply extremely  
stringent analysis when authorising them  their analysis  could be proportionate.
I think the level of MMLs  analysis was proportionate. I can see that in each case they 
created a budget plan; checked Mr Ms credit file; checked his wages and ensured he had 
sufficient disposable  income to afford the loans. 
Mr M points  to the defaults  registered against him in 2016 and I would expect MML to have 
considered these when extending further credit. But I think they did. They  spoke to Mr M and 
gained an understanding of the illness that had meant he was not working for a time. I think 
they would  have been reassured that this was the cause of the problem. And when they 
looked at his financial position  and indebtedness  I think the information they would have had 
would show Mr M could  still afford the lending he was requesting. 
So overall, I dont  think MML  have done anything  wrong here. I think  the lending they 
provided was affordable  and I dont think they need  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6192188