K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham  Midshires)  gave him 
incorrect information about his mortgage  product  fee which meant he paid additional interest.
background
Mr P took a mortgage  from Bank  of Scotland recommended by his broker. He says he was 
told by Bank  of Scotland that the product fee would not be subject to interest if he paid it in 
the first year.  But when he came to pay he found that hed been charged interest. He wants  
this to be refunded.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that the 
mortgage offer Mr P accepted said that interest was payable on this fee. And shed asked 
Bank of Scotland for any recordings or notes of calls with Mr P about this including  on the 
specific dates hed mentioned. It could not locate any and she said this might  be due to his 
number being  withheld when hed called.
Mr P did not agree.  He said that hed been given incorrect information.  And it was 
convenient that Bank of Scotland could not find any evidence about it and, in his view, had 
got away with its mistakes. He wanted his complaint  to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr P disputes what his mortgage  offer stated. I will then only briefly  mention 
here that it said that the product fee of £1,995 was to be added  to the mortgage under Part 
1. And that this part would have a fixed interest rate of 2.24% per annum. Notably Part 2 of 
the mortgage was solely the mortgage account fee of £295  and was at a zero per cent 
interest rate for the term of the mortgage.
Mr P accepted those  terms  following advice from his broker. He says he was wrongly  told on 
more than one occasion by Bank of Scotland that he would  not pay any interest on the 
product fee. I know hes unhappy that there are no recordings or notes of his calls. But Im 
satisfied that reasonable efforts have been  taken  to find these calls and any notes or 
evidence. 
Its possible that there was some  confusion between the treatment of the product fee and the 
mortgage account fee. But Im afraid  I dont  have sufficient evidence to find Bank of Scotland 
made a mistake.  It can in my view reasonably require him to pay the interest  on the product 
fee.
Ref: DRN61300882my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6130088