K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out loans with BoS in August 2001 and May 2003. At the same  time they 
were also sold PPI policies with each loan. Each of the policies covered  Mr T only and would 
have covered the loan repayments for up to a year at a time if Mr T was made redundant, or 
for up to 60 months at a time if he was too ill to work. 
Mr and Mrs T say the policies were added  without their permission.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs T disagree, so their complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Having done  so, Im not 
upholding their complaint.  Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
BoS has supplied  copies of both the loan agreements Mr and Mrs T signed. Each of these 
has a separate  section  for PPI and makes it clear theres a choice about  whether its taken.  
In both cases PPI has been selected and Mr and Mrs T have signed the form.
So, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs T agreed to buy the PPI knowing they had a choice about 
it. 
BoS say that with both loans it advised  Mr and Mrs T to buy the PPI. This means BoS had 
an obligation  to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time of sale (because  it was only Mr T covered by the PPI) I think that 
both policies were  suitable for him. I say this because:
Mr T was eligible  for the cover  and wasnt affected by any terms which  might have 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim, such  as those related to 
existing medical conditions;
Mr T had a very small income (less than £10 a month)  from self-employment  at the 
time of both sales. The vast majority of his income  came  from his employment. 
Sometimes being self-employed makes  it more difficult to make a successful claim, 
but even if his main  income had been from this self-employment I dont think the 
terms of the policy made it more  difficult for him to make a successful claim  than for 
an employed person.  And I dont think Mr T would have been as concerned  about  
losing his self-employed income  as that from his employment;
Mr T was only entitled to statutory sick pay. So if he hadnt been able to work  hed 
have had very little money to cover  his loan repayments and all his other  expenses. 
The policies would have paid out in addition  to his statutory sick pay, and for up to 
60 months at a time.  So they offered a useful  benefit;
Ref: DRN61740492Mr and Mrs T didnt  have any savings, and Mr T was only entitled  to statutory 
redundancy pay. So if Mr T lost his job I think Mr and Mrs T would have benefitted 
from having another means by which to meet their loan repayments.  This was 
especially important as one of the loans  was secured on their property. Mr T was 
claiming a small pension at the time,  but it wouldnt have been  enough  to cover all 
their expenses. The PPI would have  paid out for up to 12 months at a time, so it 
offered a useful  benefit;
The cost of the PPI was comparable to other similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. 
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr and Mrs T lost out as a result of anything  BoS might  have 
done wrong.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about both PPI policies sold in 2001 and 2003. It 
follows that Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6174049