K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting in 1998 to protect Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage repayments. The policy gave them  accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check it was suitable  for 
them. And it had to give them enough  clear  information so they could make an informed 
decision whether  or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.  
I say this because  Mr M had a pre-existing medical  condition which would  not have been 
covered by the policy. So it was likely  that Mr M would not have  been  able to claim on the 
policy when he needed to, and when he expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander 
considered this when it made its recommendation, or that it made this clear to Mr and Mrs M.
Ive considered the banks arguments that it would have asked about  pre-existing medical  
conditions during the sale; that Mr and Mrs M would have been told about the exclusion and 
that the policy summary provided information  on the same.  But I dont think  this evidences 
that it clearly highlighted that Mr Ms pre-existing medical condition would be excluded from 
cover. Or that it took his condition properly into account when making the recommendation.
The bank also asked  for more evidence of his condition and when it was diagnosed. It has 
now received a copy of his medical report from the time of his discharge from the army in 
1986 which details  his condition and the extent to which it affected his day-to-day  living.  This 
clearly supports the argument that Mr M wouldve thought it was a likely reason he might 
need to claim. I think its most likely Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have taken  out the PPI if theyd 
been better advised and informed. 
It follows I think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of the problems with this sale.
putting things right
Ref: DRN69479082Santander should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the value of 
the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any commission  
already refunded.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Santander  UK Plc must pay compensation to Mr and 
Mrs M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947908