K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of payments taken 
from her account using her debit  cards, which  she says she didnt make or authorise.
background
In November 2017 Miss L told Barclays  that there were  numerous transactions  on her 
account that she didnt authorise, totalling almost £5,000. She only found  out that the money  
was missing when she tried to take out cash for some Christmas shopping. Miss L also said 
that shed had a number  of things stolen from her and her email  account had been hacked.
Barclays investigated and refunded  almost  £2,000, but held Miss L liable  for the rest.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. He said that three different debit 
cards had been used to carry  out the transactions during the time and he thought it was 
likely that Miss L had authorised the transactions.
Miss L disagreed. In summary, she said that she was very upset about the way shed been  
treated. She said she didnt authorise any of the payments and didnt give anyone 
permission to use her personal  details.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I accept that Miss L will be disappointed but my review  of the evidence has 
led me to the same  overall conclusions as our adjudicator previously  set out - and for much  
the same  reasons.
relevant considerations
The disputed transactions were all made between December 2016 and November 2017. The 
regulations relevant to these are the Payment Service Regulations 2009. In short,  the 
regulations say that Barclays can hold Miss L liable  for the disputed items if the evidence 
suggests that she most likely made or authorised  them herself. So my primary concern is to 
come to a view about whether or I not I think Miss L authorised the payments.
The disputed card payments were  all made to online gambling accounts between  December 
2016 and November 2017.  During this time, three  different  debit cards  were used.
card ending *4016
This card was used  between December 2016  and the end of February 2017, for some  102 
transactions totalling £1,361.53. Barclays refunded this amount in full in December  2017  - 
whilst it looked into what had happened.
During its investigation, one of the gambling  sites responded to Barclays to say that when an 
account in Miss Ls name had been  opened  it had verified her date of birth,  address, mobile 
number and payment  method by carrying out an identity check with a credit  reference 
agency. Im satisfied that those details match details that Miss L had previously supplied to 
Ref: DRN67292382Barclays, except for the mobile number. But I find that the number given does match the 
mobile number that Miss L used for mobile  banking  from 2015 until June  2017.  So if Miss L 
didnt set this account  up herself, I consider the person who did knew  not only her personal 
information, but also her debit card details.
Based on this information, Barclays decided to hold Miss L liable for the £770  that was paid 
to this particular  online site. It wrote to Miss L in February 2018 to say that it was going to re-
debit this amount  from her account.
Having carefully looked  at all the evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Miss L had 
made or authorised the payments. I say this because the transactions  dont  look unusual in 
themselves. Theyre for similar amounts as previous gambling activity  showing on Miss Ls 
account from 2015 and from the same online gaming site.
The disputed activity  doesnt look like its unauthorised  use of Miss Ls online  gambling  
account or the actions of a fraudster.  And I think its unlikely a fraudster, with access to Miss 
Ls card details, would use these to gamble  from her account with a gambling website. I say 
so because there isnt any way for a fraudster  to benefit from these transactions   as the 
money would  always  return  to Miss L. If a fraudster had her card details, its far more likely  
theyd try to find a way to withdraw, and benefit  themselves from, the money in as short  a 
time as possible before  being detected.
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded Barclays  made  a mistake by re-debiting  
the £770. The other £591.53 was left in her account.  Miss L received £191.78 in credits from 
this site, so the difference is £578.22.
card ending *4024
This card was used  between March and October 2017, for 128 transactions  totalling £2,365. 
Of this, Barclays  has refunded £1,345.
The other £1,020 was paid to one site run by the same  online gaming business, which  had 
been used previously with the card ending *4016. As Ive explained, the details for the 
account match Miss Ls personal details - so Barclays held Miss L liable for the £1,020.  (She 
did receive credits totalling more  than £300  from this site).
card ending * 4032
Some 36 payments were made to one site using  this card, totalling £1,080  (and a credit for 
more than £500 was received). When Barclays contacted  this business, it was able to 
confirm Miss Ls name, address, date of birth and email address and these matched 
Barclays records. Again, although the mobile  number didnt match the one Barclays  held, it 
was the same number  that Miss L had used to access mobile banking in 2017.  Shes  also 
told us that this was definitely her number.
other considerations
Miss Ls suggested that she wasnt aware  of the gambling transactions  going  back to 2015  
and has now disputed  them, although  she hasnt raised this with Barclays. She would need 
to do this before we could consider a related complaint. 
Ref: DRN67292383Miss Ls told us that she had a number of items stolen from her, including  her phone, tablet, 
passport and birth certificate. She says she noticed that her passport was missing  in 
November 2017.  She reported this to the police. Ive considered  this carefully, but even if the 
person who took these  things also took Miss Ls card (which she said was still in her 
possession) it doesnt explain how they managed to get hold of the details for three  different 
cards over a period of time.
I know Miss L will be disappointed but, after taking account of all the evidence, I find on 
balance, that she authorised the disputed payments. It follows that Barclays  is entitled to 
hold her liable for them.
customer service  
Miss L says that she first reported the problem on her account  at the end of November 2017 
but Barclays didnt  log the complaint until some ten days later.  It also promised to contact 
her a number of times, but failed to do so. This caused her unnecessary  stress.  Barclays 
accepted that its customer service  wasnt satisfactory,  and paid Miss L £100 in January 2018  
for this. I consider this was fair and I dont require  it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6729238