K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that she was mis-sold a regular  premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Marks & Spencer sold the policy but Allianz  Insurance Plc, as the insurer, has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to Allianz  in the rest of this 
decision.
background
The policy was taken  out when Ms D completed a leaflet to apply for a personal reserve  
account. The account was in her name,  but she nominated her husband, who Ill refer to as 
Mr D, to take the cover. The policy wouldve paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Mr D was off work sick or lost his job. And it wouldve continued to pay while he was off work 
until the outstanding balance (at the start of the claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  
Ms D didnt agree. Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
She wouldve  received good  sickness benefits  from her employer if she couldnt work  
and she was unlikely to be made  unemployed.
Its likely a member of staff ticked the box to take out the insurance  and Ms D wasnt 
aware of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ds complaint.
Given the length of time since the sale took place, Ive mainly relied on what the documents  
from the time of the sale show to help me decide how the PPI was presented  to Ms D and 
how it came  to be applied  to her account.
Ive seen a copy  of the original account  application form. I can see in the section that deals 
with PPI Ms D has ticked to select PPI as well as filling in Mr Ds name and date of birth 
nominating him as the person to be insured. Ive considered what her representative has 
said about the tick in the box not being hers. But even if this box was ticked on her behalf, 
she mustve either completed the information about Mr D, or told the member of staff that 
she wanted to nominate  him for the cover for this information to be completed. So, overall, 
I think its likely Ms D knew she had a choice  about taking out PPI and chose to take it 
because she wanted Mr D to be covered.
Ref: DRN63906272I dont think Allianz recommended the policy. The application form does say We strongly 
recommend you take this cover.  But it was not a personalised recommendation aimed at 
Ms D. And I am not persuaded that Ms D would have felt pressured to buy the policy  
because of the wording in the application  form.
Although the PPI wasnt recommended to Ms D by Allianz, it had to give her information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying  PPI.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Ms D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, overall, I dont think Ms D has lost out by anything Allianz might have done wrong. 
I think she wouldve still nominated Mr D to be covered by the policy because at the time of 
the sale:
Mr D was eligible  for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught  by any of the main exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
Ms Ds representative  has told us about Ms Ds sick pay. But she wasnt covered by the 
policy  shed nominated her husband for the cover.
At the time of the sale Ms D says Mr D was entitled to some sick pay if he couldnt  work. 
But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr D was 
entitled to and for potentially  longer, as well as covering the card repayments  if Mr D lost 
his job. So I think the policy  provided a useful  benefit  for Mr D and Ms D in their 
situation.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about  the cost of the policy  would have  put Ms D off taking out the cover.
So I dont  think Ms D has lost out by anything Allianz might have done wrong. I think  she 
wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390627