K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax)  send him a text message 
advising his credit card statement is ready  to view when its not. 
background
Halifax upheld Mr Ps initial complaint and apologised.  They also paid £50 him compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused. Halifax told him they relied on another department to 
manually upload statements once  they were ready to be viewable in PDF format  online. So 
Halifax said they werent able to guarantee  a statement will always  be available as a PDF 
the same  day Mr P received their text message. And there was a particular delay with the 
September 2018 statement. Halifax said delays  had been known to happen on occasions  
when the due date of the statement falls at the weekend and this can then cause a slight 
delay in the statement being  viewable. But none of this prevented Mr P from reviewing the 
activity on his card through the recent transactions tab as this is available straight away. 
Mr P told Halifax his interpretation of the statement being available  was when the PDF was 
viewable but they didnt uphold his later concerns that theyd made an error  in generating the 
text. Mr P brought the complaint to us as he thought Halifax refused to remedy  the issue. He 
asked for Halifax to stop sending texts notifying  their customers that a statement is available  
before that statement  was actually available.
Our investigator was satisfied that although the PDF statement may not always be ready to 
view when advised, Mr P did have full access to his account by the usual  online banking  
facility. He couldnt see any evidence to suggest Mr P was unable  access  his account to 
view transactions. And he thought, whilst the receipt of the text prior to the availability of the 
PDF file wasnt ideal  and must be frustrating for Mr P, this was an IT process currently in 
place and our service was unable  to interfere or challenge the systems a bank had in place.
Mr P didnt agree. He thought he was falsely informed by text that a statement is ready to 
view when its not. And at times before the statement is ready the online banking  clearly 
states that no statement is available as there was no activity  on the account, which was 
blatantly incorrect. He felt Halifax needed to address  these serious issues as they were  
delivering misinformation to customers by multiple means. Mr P said if this was due to IT 
processes in place  then the processes needed to change.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The recent screenshots Mr P has sent us clearly illustrate what  his concerns are. But Halifax  
dont dispute there  may be a time lag between Mr P getting the text message and the PDF 
statement being available to view. The problem is whether Halifax stops  sending  texts 
notifying their customers that a statement  is available before that statement  is available, as 
Mr P has asked.  
Theres not a great deal I can add to what the adjudicators already told Mr P. I think  hes 
covered most points  quite clearly so I wont  repeat  all the detail here. Halifax has explained 
why there  may be a time lag and, although  Mr Ps concerns  will be captured  as part of their 
complaints process  and will be reviewed, they can't amend the text to say the statement will 
Ref: DRN66569322be available in the next few days as this isn't always the case either.  And as our adjudicator  
has already explained, its not the role of his service to interfere with the banks systems. 
Were an informal dispute resolution  service not the industry regulator.
It does strike me that Mr P has a remedy in his own hands here.  Hes registered for online 
access to his credit card account and opted  into receiving SMS notifications that the 
statements are ready  to view. Halifax, in their initial responses to his complaint, has said he 
can opt out of these  alerts. If Mr P were to do that didnt theres nothing  to stop him logging 
onto his account at any time and viewing the recent  transactions tab which will show  him 
recent transactions, statement  balance, minimum payment and payment due date. 
Alternatively he could  get the same information from paper statements.
From the statements Ive seen Mr P habitually pays off the full monthly balance on his card 
by direct debit. So any time lag between the text message and the PDF statement being 
uploaded doesnt appear to have caused any loss. But I appreciate  Mr Ps frustration and 
can see he feels strongly about this. Given that, he may want  to pursue the matter further 
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to resolve his 
dispute with Halifax  informally   can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints  Mr P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6656932