K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about the compensation she has been offered by Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  (FICL) for the mis-sale  of a store card (account number ending 4341). 
background
I issued my provisional on 28 January 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached 
and forms part of my final decision.  
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I dont 
think the complaint  should be upheld. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Ms M commented that other businesses, when 
resolving a complaint  for her, had offered an additional £30 in compensation as a reflection 
of the postage cost, time and hassle she had been  caused by the mis-sale. Ms M asked for 
a similar  payment in this case.
FICL didn't reply to my provisional decision.  
I appreciate that Ms M has been  inconvenienced  by making  the complaint, and she also 
provided some additional statements that she hoped would help FICL calculate its offer of 
compensation. 
In dealings with businesses, things can, and do, go wrong from time to time. As with any 
complaint, there is always an element of a consumer  having to do something if they feel the 
business hasnt  done something  right.
I can appreciate that Ms M, in making  the complaint and providing her statements, has been  
inconvenienced. However, I do think the inconvenience Ms M has been put to is only minor  
and overall, I dont think Ms M has suffered any significant upset. So I wont  be awarding  
anything further  than FICL has already  offered. 
As FICL hasnt given  me anything more to consider further to my provisional  decision 
findings, I confirm  those findings. 
Ref: DRN69096642my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, and above, I dont uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. If it hasnt already done  so, Financial Insurance Company Limited should bring its 
offer up to date and arrange to pay the compensation to Ms M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69096643copy of provisional decision
background
Ms M took out a store  card in April 2002. She complained to FICL  that the card had been mis-sold to 
her. FICL agreed and offered compensation of £8.40.
FICL didn't have the full statements for when  the card was in use. It had actual statements  of account  
from August 2005. For the period before that, it did know the amounts charged for the PPI, interest 
and total spending. So it used those amounts and averaged the total figures  from the account  opening 
date up until August  2005.
Ms M wasnt  happy with the offer.  She had monthly statements of her account  from April 2003 
through to August 2003 and thought they would  be a better reflection of how she used her card. Ms M 
sent the statements to FICL but it said it wasnt able to recalculate the offer on the evidence  she had 
provided. 
Our adjudicator asked FICL to recalculate its offer incorporating the known  data Ms M had provided. 
FICL said it couldnt do this as its method of calculation  would need either  three consecutive  
statements from the account opening date or statements  from the three months before the account  
closing date.  
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As FICL has already offered compensation for the PPI I will not be looking at how it was sold. Ill only 
be considering the compensation it has offered  and whether I think  it is fair. 
Because of how long ago the account was opened, FICL doesnt  have statement  data before August 
2005. I dont find this surprising  bearing  in mind how long ago Ms M took the store card. And 
businesses arent under  any obligation to keep records of account indefinitely.
For the period where FICL  doesnt have copies of Ms Ms statements it doesnt know what  happened 
on the store card. So it has used  the information it does have to make assumptions to work out the 
impact the PPI had on Ms Ms account during  this time to calculate how much it owes Ms M in 
compensation. That is the offer it has put to Ms M.
But Ms M has been able to provide some  statements  of her account  and would like FICL to use the 
actual data where it is known. Ive considered this point as I agree  that if possible  known data should  
be used when  it is available.
FICL has assumed that the store card always had a balance which increased over time.  FICL has 
used this assumption to work out how much interest it charged Ms M. Looking  at Ms Ms actual 
statements I see there were times when Ms M repaid  her balance,  and so wasnt actually charged any 
interest. So I think if I told FICL to work out Ms Ms compensation more  accurately she would get less 
back.  
What FICL  has done  will inevitably not perfectly reflect how Ms M used her store card in the periods 
for when it doesnt have  statements. But in the absence of full data from the time,  there is no way 
FICL could do this. So it has come  to up with a way of working out how much Ms M is likely  to have 
used her store  card during  that time and what the PPI would have cost.  
Ref: DRN69096644What it has worked  out may be more  or less than the actual cost. But overall, I think  the assumptions 
FICL has made when it doesnt  know what  happened are fair, and favour Ms M. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint and wont be 
asking Financial Insurance Company Limited to recalculate its offer. 
Ref: DRN6909664