K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006. Ms M 
says Bank  of Scotland trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI.
Ms M bought a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2006.  TMPP can be split into 
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical illness  
cover. Ms M complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover  only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Ms M aware  that the PPI policy  was optional  and gain her consent 
before adding the PPI to her mortgage.  There isnt much paperwork available from the sale 
of the policy, but from what we know  about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I 
think its likely Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional and gained  Mr Ms consent 
before adding it to her mortgage. So overall  I think Halifax made  it clear  that Ms M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policy  to Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. Ms M has told us she was entitled  to sick pay when she took the PPI. She also had 
other insurance, redundancy cover  and some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Ms Ms sick pay, and for longer.  It would  also have paid out in circumstances  that 
her other cover wouldnt  have. In addition to this the PPI would have protected Ms Ms 
savings so they could be used towards other expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Ms circumstances  at the time,  she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
Ref: DRN64003102my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6400310