K821x#15complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the compensation Financial  Insurance Company Limited has offered  
to settle her complaint about a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her store  card.
background
Mrs L took out a store  card and later a PPI policy was taken  out, associated  with the 
account. Mrs L has now complained to FICL  she was mis-sold the PPI.
FICL upheld  Mrs Ls complaint and offered £7.10 in compensation. Mrs L wasnt  happy with 
how FICL dealt with her and what it had offered to settle the complaint  so she came  to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said what FICL had offered was fair as the records  showed she had only 
ever made two payments for the PPI. But they didnt think  FICL  had dealt with the complaint  
well and there had been a number  of errors. So our adjudicator recommended FICL pay 
£100.00 for the trouble  and upset caused to Mrs L.
FICL didnt  agree and so the matter has been  referred to an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As FICL has upheld Mrs Ls complaint that the PPI was mis-sold I am not considering  how it 
was sold to Mrs L. In this decision Im only looking at if what  FICL has offered to settle the 
complaint is fair and if any additional  payment should be made for any trouble and upset.
The records  provided  by FICL indicate the store card was taken out in July 1999  but the PPI 
doesnt seem to have  been taken out at the same  time. There are only two premiums shown 
as charged to the account in January and February 2002 and the total ever charged for PPI 
premiums was £2.98. I have seen  nothing to show that more than this amount was ever 
charged for PPI premiums.
 
In working out the compensation due to Mrs L, FICL has also added some  card rate interest  
which would have been caused by the premiums being added to the account. And it has also 
worked out some compensatory interest for any time Mrs L was out of pocket.
Overall I think  what FICL has worked out and offered  as compensation to put Mrs L in the 
position she would be in if shed not taken out the PPI is fair.
Mrs L has also raised some concerns about  the way FICL dealt with her complaint. This 
included the chasing she had to do and also the wrong information she was given.
When Mrs L first complained to FICL it asked her to complete a form. She did this and 
returned it to FICL but about two weeks later FICL wrote  to her saying it hadnt received the 
form. Mrs L called FICL  to find out what was happening and was told the form had been  
received. She was also told that she would receive an offer letter in the next 7 to 10 days 
offering compensation of £476.00.
Ref: DRN67130152Mrs L did receive an offer letter shortly  after her telephone call but this offered  only £7.10 in 
compensation. She again called FICL and questioned this amount.  She was told again that 
the correct amount was £476.00.  The advisor  didnt know why she had been sent the offer 
for £7.10 and said a correct letter would be sent out for the £476.00.
Some two weeks later Mrs L received  a letter explaining  that there had been an error in 
uploading the offer letter to her file. In fact the correct offer was £7.10 but the letter attached  
to her file at FICL was for another  customer and was for £476.00.
Mrs L was upset at being  told this and I can understand why she felt the compensation she 
was now being  offered  of £7.10 may be incorrect, when she had anticipated receiving a 
substantial amount more.  She feels that FICL should honour the amount of £476.00  she was 
told by its representatives  would be the compensation.
As Ive said I think Mrs L is getting the correct amount of compensation, looking at what it is 
known she paid for the PPI. And I dont think it would  be fair to tell FICL to pay the £476.00 
incorrect amount. But FICL didnt  quickly rectify  its error as Mrs L was told the same 
information about the amount of compensation in two separate calls some two weeks apart 
and it took around  another  two weeks before  she received the letter  explaining the mistake.
I do think that FICL should pay some additional compensation for the trouble and upset its 
errors, and the way it dealt with the complaint,  have  caused Mrs L. Our adjudicator  said 
£100.00 was a fair amount but FICL didnt agree and offered to pay £50.00.
I think looking at all the circumstances  and the upset  caused to Mrs L by not getting the 
amount she was told, on two separate occasions,  £100.00 is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think that the compensation of £7.10 is fair to refund to 
Mrs L what she paid for the PPI and also to provide compensatory interest for being  out of 
pocket. However Im directing FICL to pay an additional £100.00 for the trouble and upset  
caused to Mrs L as a result of the errors and the way FICL dealt with this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.  
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6713015