K821x#15complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the compensation Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) 
offered to settle  her complaint about a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
she took out alongside a store  card.
background
FICL accepted responsibility for the sale of the PPI when Miss B complained  it was mis-sold. 
FICL agreed  to settle the complaint and initially  offered her £9.13 in compensation. After the 
complaint was brought to this service it reviewed its offer and increased it to £700.00.
Miss B still wasnt happy as she said this was an arbitrary figure  and she felt FICL could 
make a more accurate  calculation with the data it had.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
Miss B has confirmed she has received that provisional decision  and has nothing further to 
add.
FICL did not respond  to my provisional decision,  but as I had requested FICL to recalculate  
the compensation and provide its new amount  in response. I chased for a response but have 
still received no reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL has agreed to uphold Miss Bs complaint  and most recently offered her £700 to settle  it. 
Very limited information is available about  the sale and the amount Miss B actually paid for 
the PPI. FICL records show  that the account was opened in 1990 and closed in 1999. The 
records also record that the PPI was active during the same dates.
Although FICL originally  said in its offer letter that it didnt have full data about  the premiums  
paid, it had indicated  it did know the total amount  charged and total spending  on the account 
whilst it was open. However the records  that have been provided do not include this 
information. All that is actually known are the dates that the account  and PPI were open and 
that one premium of £3.60 was charged in September 1994.
I set out in detail  in my provisional decision what evidence had been provided and how there  
was some conflict in this information.
I explained in my provisional decision  that the approach taken by FICL to reach its offer of 
£700.00 was reasonable if the PPI only ran until August 1994. But I said based on what  I 
had seen from both FICL  and Miss B that FICL should assume the PPI ran until 
October 1999.
Ref: DRN60258962I requested FICL to provide an updated  offer taking this into account. But FICL has provided  
no response to my provisional decision despite  being chased for the new calculation  amount 
that had been requested.
Miss B has accepted  my provisional decision and findings.
If Miss B had paid £3.60 every month for the PPI she would pay just over £40.00 each  year. 
But it is quite likely  the cost varied  from month to month and with this type of card I would 
anticipate there would be some months  when there was perhaps no spend  and a lesser 
amount of PPI cost incurred.
Considering all the factors and knowing the approach taken by FICL to estimate costs for 
unknown periods, I think in the circumstances of this particular case  it would be reasonable 
to use a figure of £50.00 for every year from 1994 to 1999  to give fair compensation to 
Miss B. This would be £350.00  for this period. Adding this to the offer FICL made of £700.00 
for the early years of the account, when more  is often spent with this type of store  card, the 
total compensation due would be £1,050.00.
Therefore as no one has provided any information  or evidence for me to change the findings 
I made  in my provisional  decision,  I am directing FICL to pay £1,050.00 in total as a fair 
amount of compensation to settle  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision,  I am directing Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Miss B £1,050.00 as compensation for the mis-sold PPI taken out with her 
store card. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2019
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60258963Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss Bs complaint  is about the compensation  Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) has 
offered to settle her complaint for a mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy she took out 
with a store card.
background 
FICL isnt the business that operated the store card, but it was the insurer of Miss Bs PPI policy and it 
has accepted responsibility for this complaint about  the mis-sale of the PPI. 
When Miss B complained  she had been mis-sold  the PPI, FICL  agreed to uphold her complaint. It 
sent her a letter offering  her £9.13 in total compensation. It set out that £3.60 was the total cost for the 
PPI and had added some  compensatory  interest for the time Miss B had been  out of pocket.
Miss B wasnt happy with the offer and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator indicated they didnt think the offer was fair and FICL then made an offer of £700.00.
Miss B says this amount is totally arbitrary, especially when FICL has said it has some data that it 
could use to make a more  accurate calculation  of the compensation  due.
Our adjudicator said FICLs  new offer of £700.00 was fair. Miss B didnt agree, so this matter has 
been referred for an ombudsman to consider.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When working out the compensation  due for a PPI complaint of this sort we expect a business  to, as 
far as possible, put a consumer in the position they would have been if the PPI had never  been sold 
to them. 
In the circumstances of this case FICL doesnt have the full data about Miss Bs account to work out 
exactly what  she was charged  for the PPI. It indicated in its offer letter to Miss B that it only had full 
data from 2005 onwards. This account was opened in August 1990 and closed  in October 1999. Both 
parties have  agreed those  dates to be correct.
So FICL doesnt have full data for this period, only some limited information. In its correspondence to 
Miss B it said Prior to August 2005 we do not have  the full transactional history,  but we do have the 
total amounts charged  for PPI, interest and the total spending on the account.our pre 2005 
calculation has used these  amounts and averaged  the total figures  across the period.
FICL has provided the computer screen shot and correspondence it does have and this, in Miss Bs, 
case doesnt  actually  contain  the information as it indicated in the correspondence  it sent. 
The offer letter is a standard  template,  but it does  tell Miss B information that is incorrect,  which is 
misleading. And I can understand why Miss B is unhappy with what she sees as a random amount 
now being offered to settle her complaint, if FICL has more accurate information. She has put forward 
that FICL do a calculation making some assumptions using the data it does have.
I have requested from FICL copies of everything it holds for Miss Bs account. And what has been 
provided is very limited.  It indicates that the PPI started  in August 1990 and there is a column  showing 
Ref: DRN60258964that the last premium billed was £3.60 in September 1994. However there is a further column which 
indicates that the PPI ended in October 1999, which  I understand was the date the card was closed.
I have questioned if it has any records regarding  the total spend  on the account,  the total charges for 
PPI and the interest,  but FICL  has stated  it does not have this information. This type of information is 
often available on other old accounts  of this sort.
Whilst I accept the information available suggest  the last billing for PPI took place in September  1994, 
this would  also suggest  no spending on the account took place after this date. And I have seen 
nothing to show  that is the case  nor has either party said that to be so. Both parties  have said the 
account was open until 1999  and Miss B has said she used the card regularly during the time it was 
open. 
Therefore there is a conflict in the evidence  from the screen shot at to whether the last premium was 
in 1994 when  it also shows the PPI was active until the account closed in 1999.  
Based on what I have  seen and the testimony of Miss B, which has proven reliable, I think that FICL 
should assume the PPI was paid until the account was closed in October  1999. This would be a 
reasonable approach to ensure Miss B is not out of pocket at all for the PPI costs she may have  paid.
Moving to Miss Bs suggestions that FICL should make a calculation for the costs of the PPI using the 
data it has, rather than offer an arbitrary  figure, I think in this case that is difficult. There is only one 
known amount for the PPI of £3.60. This could be the highest or lowest amount charged and without 
the known total spend on the account it would be hard to ensure any calculation using one figure and 
assumptions for a period of nine years would  be fair.
We have  worked  with FICL to find a method for them to establish a reasonable  approach in 
circumstances such as this, where  very limited or no data is available.  This takes into account any 
premium amount known and the number of years  the PPI was on the account.  This is the approach 
FICL took when making its offer of £700, working  on the basis of the £3.60  premium and the PPI 
being active to 1994.
I think  it would be fair for FICL to use this approach but now working out the compensation on the 
basis that the PPI was active  from August  1990  to October  1999. 
It is difficult to know exactly how much  Miss B paid for the PPI and whatever  compensation  is offered 
it may be more or less than she actually paid. But I do believe in all the circumstances of this 
particular case using FICLs  method, but for the longer  period  of time,  would be the fairest approach 
to take.
I would request that in response to this decision FICL provides  a figure to indicate what its offer would  
be using those dates.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, I am intending to tell 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Miss B compensation based on the PPI being active for 
the full duration  that the card was open,  in the way I have set out. 
This is subject to any further information that is provided  by either  party  by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60258965
Ref: DRN6025896