K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background 
Miss R took receipt of a new car in March 2018.  She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with FCA and paid a deposit  of £4,500.
But shes  had several problems with the car, as follows:
June 2018 seat imprint, heating problem and start/stop fault
July 2018 stop/start fault still present, radio unit replaced as language settings 
changed without warning.
December 2018  keyless entry failed, new clutch switch fitted
January 2019  radio  shutting off when  heated  windscreen activated and locking and 
ambient light problem
She complained to FCA and they accepted that the car had been  of unsatisfactory  quality  
and offered to allow her to reject it and terminate her finance agreement  with them. But they 
werent prepared  to refund all of Miss Rs deposit so she referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think FCA had gone  far enough. He agreed that the car should be 
rejected as it hadnt proven sufficiently  durable and this meant it was of unsatisfactory 
quality. But he thought FCA should refund Miss Rs deposit and that they should  also pay 
her £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
FCA agreed with the adjudicators view but Miss R didnt.  She said that FCA should  repay  
some of the instalments because the deposit and the instalments were inextricably linked: 
one would increase if the other  decreased. She also said the adjudicator had been wrong to 
consider whether shed completed  average  mileage and that he should have considered  
what portion of her contractual  mileage shed completed. She explained  that if hed done this 
he would  have realised  shed had less than expected usage from the car especially, she 
suggested, as significant mileage had been  incurred taking the car to and from the garage 
unnecessarily.
Miss R went on to dispute the compensation suggested by our adjudicator  she thought  hed 
taken no account  of the time and effort involved in frequently  visiting the garage  and she 
thought the compensation  should  be higher in the circumstances.  So she asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss R so please let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN69342702Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  The  relevant law says, amongst other  things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCA are responsible. The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss R. The car 
here was brand new so I wouldnt expect it to have  faults. 
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCA to put this right. 
The relevant  legislation  says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Relevant legislation allows  the business  one opportunity to repair a fault. It does not give a 
business one chance to repair each  separate fault that may occur. Whether a vehicle is of 
satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as a whole not each separate  
component. Indeed the more separate faults  - the more likely  it is the vehicle isnt of 
satisfactory quality.
And here there have been several faults  on the new vehicle. Whilst I understand that FCA 
werent able to diagnose some faults Miss R reported to them, it is clear they were able to 
identify a problem  with the seat; a radio unit fault and some  issues  with the start/stop 
function. Subsequent problems also demonstrate a lack of durability and I think overall, its 
clear this car was not of the standard a reasonable person would expect.
So FCA were right to accept the rejection  of the vehicle and the termination of the contract 
and in those circumstances we would also recommend that the deposit  was refunded.
Miss R disputes the compensation paid and Ive thought about her arguments here but Im 
persuaded that £200 is sufficient in the circumstances.
Shes also disputed  whether  FCA should refund any of her finance  instalments. The 
adjudicator suggested that Miss R had fair use of the car based on the mileage she had 
covered. I can understand that Miss R would want us to consider this against the contracted 
Ref: DRN69342703mileage rather than average mileage. But I think its reasonable to suggest there may have 
been other reasons why Miss R wasnt  completing the mileage she was contracted to. 
That contracted mileage  was a mileage limit after which  she would have had to pay excess 
mileage charges. So I think its reasonable to suggest Miss R would have set that higher 
than her anticipated mileage so that she didnt incur  charges. I think its reasonable to 
suggest she may have  preferred to set a higher mileage than she usually completes in order 
not to attract  excess mileage charges at the end of the hire period. 
Ive thought about the faults  Miss R complained about and considered whether they would 
be likely  to impair the mileage she could  cover in the car but Im not persuaded they would 
have. For instance  I dont think she would have travelled less mileage because  the language 
setting was wrong or the stop/start function wasnt working or the radio kept shutting off or 
there were problems with the ambient lights or the locking system.  And having  considered  
the mileage between visits to the garage  I dont  think  there  are significant variations in 
average mileage that would persuade  me specific faults were impeding her ability  to travel in 
the car.
Miss R says that the deposit is linked to the monthly  instalment as the higher the deposit the 
lower the monthly  instalment. So she says that we cant reimburse the deposit  without 
considering a refund of some of the instalments. But I disagree.  
The deposit  simply  served to reduce the amount of credit that was being financed.  So it 
seems fair to refund  that when the finance  agreement is terminated as it wasnt part of the 
agreement. But the monthly  instalments repay  the credit, the use of which Miss R has had 
some benefit  from. And as Ive explained above I think shes  had fair use and Im not 
therefore refunding  any of the instalments.
So I agree with the adjudicators suggestion that the business pay Miss R £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shes experienced and also that they 
neednt refund any finance  instalments as Miss R has had fair use from the car.
Ref: DRN69342704my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCA Automotive  Services  
UK Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with no further instalments to pay and ensure the 
agreement is recorded as settled on Miss Rs credit file
collect the car at no further cost to Miss R
pay Miss R £200 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result  of 
this issue
refund  Miss Rs deposit of £4,500 and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
remove any adverse credit reports they may have made  to Miss Rs credit file as a 
result of this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6934270