K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) paid only part of their travel 
insurance claim after Mr K fell ill abroad. 
background
In early August  2017 Mr and Mrs K and their children went on a European holiday, travelling 
by car. Around a week later Mr K unfortunately fell ill with a serious lung condition and was 
treated in hospital for just under two weeks. Mrs K and their children stayed with relatives 
and Mr Ks treatment was covered under his EHIC card.
Mr K was discharged from hospital on 24 August, four days  after the familys original return  
date. But three days  later he was taken  back into hospital for a further  five days  until 
1 September.  He was again discharged for a few days but from 6 September he then spent 
another seven  days in hospital until 13 September. The family travelled back to the UK by 
car on 24 September 2017. 
Mrs K had contacted  UKI on 1 September about Mr Ks illness  and to extend the cover 
because their policy covered them for only 31 days after theyd left the UK. On 4 September 
UKI told her there was no reason why Mr K couldnt return to the UK for follow up treatment. 
There were some discussions about  the medical evidence required for the claim.  
Mr and Mrs K made a claim for their expenses. After asking for more information  UKI paid 
the claim,  but only for the period to 24 August. It said that Mr K hadnt shown it was 
medically necessary  for him to remain abroad  after the familys original  return  date. So UKI 
said it didnt need  to extend  the cover and any claim  after 24 August wasnt covered. Mr and 
Mrs K said this was unfair as Mr K had been very ill. Theyd provided medical evidence that 
he wasnt fit to travel. But UKI said its medical staff said hed been able to travel when he 
first left hospital. Mr and Mrs K came to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint and said UKI hadnt shown it could fairly pay only part 
of the claim. She said it should consider Mr and Mrs Ks claim for the remaining period they 
were abroad. UKI didnt  agree so the complaints come to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint  and the fair outcome is for UKI to consider  Mr and Mrs Ks claim 
under the remaining policy terms for the extended trip to 24 September  2017. Ill explain 
why.
First of all, Ive considered  whether I can deal with this complaint under the rules  that I must  
apply. I say this because UKI earlier suggested  that part of the complaint about the 
extension of the trip might be time barred under the rules. It said this because it had issued a 
final response letter in October 2017  telling Mr and Mrs K they had six months in which  to 
refer their complaint  to us. But they didnt  refer their complaint  to us until August 2018, so 
more than six months after the October 2017 final response letter.  
Ref: DRN62379272But as our adjudicator  pointed  out UKI issued a second final response letter in March  2018. 
In that letter  UKI responded to the main  issues  of the complaint Ive been  asked  to consider, 
including the extension of the trip. UKI gave Mr and Mrs K fresh referral rights for this 
service and they did refer their complaint  to us within six months  of that final response letter. 
So Im satisfied the complaint had been made  to us in time under the rules I must  apply.
Ill turn now to the merits of this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs K werent happy that UKI 
asked for medical  evidence both from his treating doctor abroad and from his GP before it 
would say whether  it accepted their claim. But in my experience most travel insurers will 
want this information  for a medical  claim. I dont think UKIs request was unreasonable. 
Its clear from the medical evidence  that Mr K had a serious illness  during their holiday. The 
evidence from both his treating  doctor  abroad  and his GP is that he had pneumonia with 
pleural effusion  (fluid around  the lungs) and sepsis (a very serious medical  condition,  which  
is essentially the bodys  immune response  to an infection).  He had three  separate hospital 
admissions in short succession. 
UKIs argument is that Mr K was fit to travel home on 24 August. This date was after the 
familys original  return date so UKI argues they should have returned to the UK when first 
discharged from hospital. UKI quotes  its policy exclusion that says that it wont cover  
treatment and aid incurred after, in the opinion of its medical adviser, the insured person is 
able to return to the UK. UKI says Mr K could have  returned within the 31 days trip period so 
it doesnt accept  it should pay a claim for any expenses after 24 August.
Its for UKI to show that can fairly rely on its policy exclusion. And here I dont  agree  that UKI 
has shown that Mr K was fit to travel on 24 August or in the period before  24 September.  
On 24 August the medical evidence is that Mr K was in general good  health but was advised 
by his doctor to rest, take the prescribed medication,  do breathing exercises and have a 
chest x-ray in one months  time.  Mr K says he still felt very unwell at this point, and given  his 
illness I dont think his first thought was to travel back to the UK straight  away   not least as 
his family  was staying  with close relatives.  He and Mrs K knew  they were covered for a trip 
of up to 31 days. That Mr K still felt unwell seems borne out by the medical evidence; that is, 
his second hospital admission just three  days after his first discharge. His doctor advised 
when he was discharged on 1 September  that he shouldnt travel  for three weeks. 
UKI might argue that it could have looked  into other ways in which to bring Mr K to the UK  
such as ground ambulance or medicar. (It seems unlikely he would be able to fly given the 
pneumonia and pleurisy).  But even after Mrs K contacted it on 1 September I cant  see that 
UKI liaised with his treating doctor about his health,  to assess  why the doctor had decided 
he wasnt fit to travel  and whether hed have been fit to travel  on the first discharge from 
hospital on 24 August.  And the medical  evidence shows he still wasnt  well as he then had to 
go back into hospital for a third time.  
So for the reasons Ive given I dont  think UK has shown that Mr K was fit to travel on 
24 August and I dont  think it was fair for UKI to pay only part of Mr and Mrs Ks claim.  I think  
the fair and reasonable outcome is for UKI to assess Mr and Mrs Ks claim for the additional 
and extended  trip period from 25 August 2017 to 24 September 2017. It should  pay the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms. For the avoidance of doubt  UKI is not entitled to rely 
on the policy exclusion about returning  to the UK. UKI also cant rely on the policy exclusion 
that the claim fell outside the original  31 day trip period  because  the trip was extended only 
due to Mr Ks illness. 
Ref: DRN62379273Ive not made any finding on whether Mr and Mrs Ks full claim is covered under the policy  
terms. This means that in the event they arent happy with the claim settlement they are 
entitled to make a fresh  complaint to UKI about that and, if not satisfied, to this service. 
I hope that wont be necessary but its important  that I explain the position in this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  
we send it Mr and Mrs Ks acceptance  of my final decision I require U K Insurance  Limited  to 
assess their remaining claim for the additional  and extended trip period  from 25 August 2017 
to 24 September  2017 inclusive and to settle  the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6237927