K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about poor service  from Bank  of Ireland (UK) plc (trading as Post Office 
Money) when he tried to pay money into a new account hed opened.
background
Mr M had a number of accounts with Bank  of Ireland. He opened two new ones on 4 June  
2018. On 7 June made three  transfers of £20,000 from a third party  current account to one 
of his new accounts. But after hed made the transfer, he realised he was trying to pay the 
money into a Band  of Ireland account  that was closed. 
Mr M rang Bank of Ireland  on 8 June. The bank said it would request a trace of funds that 
would be picked up within forty eight hours. Mr M was told the money would be returned  to 
his current account.
Mr M rang again on 11 June, and was told the money would  probably  be returned to him by 
cheque, rather  than repaid to his current account.  
By that time the money was, in fact, in one of Mr Ms new accounts.
Bank of Ireland  accepted  it had given conflicting information to Mr M during its phone calls 
and offered £50 compensation.
Our investigator recommended this should  be increased to £100. She considered  the bank 
shouldve told Mr M where his money was during the phone  call on 11 June. Given  the 
amount of money  involved and the banks  inconsistent information, she considered £100  
better reflected the stress caused to Mr M while  he didnt know  where his money was. 
Bank of Ireland  didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions. It said, in summary, that the 
problem was caused by Mr M transferring the money to a closed  account.  Mr M had two 
customer profiles but hadnt mentioned  this when hed called the bank. As such,  the banks 
agents couldnt see all of his accounts when Mr M had called. Bank of Ireland didnt consider 
it was at fault and wasnt  willing to pay the extra compensation.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mr M tried to transfer money  to a closed Bank of Ireland account  in 
error. So I can see why Bank  of Ireland  might  think its unreasonable  that it has to pay 
compensation for an error  that wasnt of its making.
But once Mr M had realised what had happened, I think it was reasonable for Bank  of Ireland 
to try to help him track down his money.
Bank of Ireland  has said that when Mr M contacted  it on 11 June, he didnt mention that he 
had two customer profiles. That meant the bank could only see accounts  for the profile 
details hed given.  Bank of Ireland  says this is why it couldnt see that the money had been 
received into one of Mr Ms open  accounts. 
Ref: DRN64648062But I note that the banks  final response  letter says:
Having said this later on in the call you confirmed the account number [ending  518] which is 
linked to the correct profile and so we should have been able to see on this call that the 
funds had in fact already been credited to your new account.
I accept that the banks  agents probably  couldnt see the relevant account  information based 
on the profile details  Mr M gave  when he phoned.  
Bank of Ireland  seems to suggest that Mr M deliberately withheld details of his other  profile. 
But having  listened to the phone calls between Mr M and the bank, Im not persuaded thats  
the case. Its likely  Mr M knew he had two profiles. But I dont  think  he wouldve  necessarily  
realised that was significant for the purpose  of Bank  of Ireland checking where his money 
was.
Mr M mentioned account ending 518 (the closed account) on both calls. As the account 
wouldnt have been listed against the profile  Bank of Ireland  could  see, I think  it might have 
been reasonable for the bank to check whether Mr M had any other profiles.  Had it done so, 
it couldve told Mr M on 11 June that his money  had been paid into one of his open 
accounts.
Bank of Ireland  has accepted that it gave Mr M different  information  about the steps  it could 
take to trace  his money. When I take this into account, together  with the circumstances 
overall, I agree with the investigator that £100 is reasonable compensation on this occasion. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc (trading as Post Office Money) should pay £100  
to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6464806