K821x#15complaint
Mr W was involved  in a non-fault road traffic accident. Kindertons Ltd were instructed  to 
manage the repairs to his car. Mr W has complained  about the overall  service  provided by 
Kindertons and that personal  items in his car at the time of the accident have gone missing.
background
Mr W was involved  in an accident in September 2018 and Kindertons were  instructed to 
manage his claim. Hes complained that:
There was a delay  in moving his car from his chosen repairer (Garage B, where the 
car was taken after the accident) and Kindertons approved repairer  (Garage C).
Kindertons delayed  in telling him that his car had been  written off.
After the car was written off, Kindertons  told him it would be at Garage C for three 
days, and he could collect his personal items.  But when he contacted Garage C on 
the morning of the third day (a Friday) the car had already been collected by 
Kindertons salvage agents. But the salvage  agent later told him that his car wasnt  
collected from Garage  C until the following Monday.
When his car was returned  to him, personal  items were missing and the fuel tank 
was empty.
Kindertons didnt  follow up on his personal  injury claim.
Kindertons delayed  recovering his uninsured  losses,  and it took him five months  to 
get this money  back.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that only Kindertons service was considered,  and not what 
Garage C or the salvage agent may or may not have done.
Our investigator found Kindertons hadnt  provided  a reasonable service. He felt that 
Kindertons had delayed  moving Mr Ws car from Garage B to Garage  C, and didnt tell him 
what was happening.  Mr W was receiving  calls from Garage B telling him they would clamp 
or tow his car if it wasnt moved,  and the investigator thought this couldve been avoided.  
Because of this he said Kindertons should pay Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset this 
caused him.
The investigator felt Kindertons didnt deal with the issues about the missing personal  items 
and the fuel. He thought  this caused Mr W further upset and loss (had he been  told the cost 
of the fuel could be reimbursed, he couldve recovered this). Because of this he said 
Kindertons should  pay Mr W £250.
The investigator also found that Kindertons  had delayed forwarding the uninsured  losses  
invoice to the third party  insurer. But Kindertons had chased  the third party  insurer  for 
payment on a regular  basis.  Because of this, he didnt think the invoice wouldve been any 
paid sooner if the delay hadnt happened. But he said that Kindertons should apologise for 
their delay.
Ref: DRN60454682Mr W agreed with the investigator. Kindertons agreed in part but they feel theres not 
enough evidence  to show that one of the personal items  a dashcam  was in Mr Ws car at 
the time of the accident. They say that if the dashcam was there it couldve been removed by 
either Garage C or the salvage agent, and the agreement Mr W signed  means  they arent 
responsible for this. Kindertons have asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There was a delay  in moving Mr Ws car from Garage B to Garage C. This was caused by 
Mr Ws car not starting  when  the first attempt  at collection  was made. I agree that Kindertons  
shouldve told Mr W this, and shouldve made alternative arrangements once they were 
aware the car wouldnt start. But it was Garage C asking why the car wasnt  with them  that 
prompted Kindertons  to act, and Mr W had had several phone calls from Garage B in the 
meantime. Because  of this, I agree with the investigator that Kindertons  should pay Mr W 
£100 for the trouble and upset these calls caused  him.
Kindertons had told Mr W that his car had been  written off the day after the engineer  (who  
made this decision) had written his report.  I agree  this was reasonable and I dont think 
Kindertons unnecessarily delayed telling Mr W about this.
Ive listened to the call that took place on 26 September 2018, when Kindertons told Mr W 
that his car had been written off. He asked about  collecting  his personal items and was told 
that his car would be at Garage C for perhaps  another three days. Kindertons  were aware 
on the second day that the salvage agent was collecting the car on the third day, but they 
didnt tell Mr W this. Knowing he was collecting his personal items, they couldve done so, so 
he could make alternative arrangements. Or Kindertons couldve asked the salvage  agent to 
hold off collecting the car for a day, so Mr W could recover  his personal items.
Im in agreement that Mr W finding out his car had been taken, and that he couldnt  collect 
his personal items as agreed,  wouldve come as a shock to him - this this was an avoidable 
situation. But I also agree  that Kindertons cant be held responsible for the salvage agent  
telling Mr W that his car had been  collected later than it actually had been, as Kindertons  
didnt tell him the wrong information.
While theres photographic evidence of other personal items in the car when it was collected  
from Garage B, theres a disagreement whether there was a dashcam. Mr W has said there 
was, but Kindertons have said theres  no photographic evidence  to show  this. 
I agree  with Kindertons  that there  isnt a photograph that clearly shows  the dashcam. But 
there is a photograph that shows something attached to the rear view mirror when the car 
was collected  from Garage  B. Theres also a photograph taken when  the salvage agent  
returned the car to Mr W which shows a wire hanging down by the rear view mirror. This wire 
is not present  in the earlier photographs. This satisfies me that there was a dashcam, or 
similar electronic device,  located on or nearby  the rear view mirror at the time the car was 
taken to Garage  C.
Ref: DRN60454683Kindertons have said that the dashcam, if it was there, couldve been  removed by either 
Garage C or the salvage agents, and their terms mean theyre not responsible  for this. I 
agree with this, but the £250 wasnt being  recommended to replace the dashcam, but to 
compensate Mr W for the trouble and upset caused by Kindertons  not dealing  with the 
issues about the missing  personal items.
As Ive said,  Kindertons couldve dealt told Mr W when they knew  his car was being  
collected, or asked  the salvage  agent  to delay collection. They also couldve told Mr W how 
he could claim for the cost of the fuel removed  from his car as part of the salvage process. 
But they didnt,  and he now cant recover this as his claim has been settled. All of this 
caused Mr W some distress and financial loss (the value of the fuel in the car at the time of 
the accident).  I agree  with the investigator that £250 is a fair amount to compensate Mr W for 
this.
Kindertons offered to refer Mr W to a personal  injury solicitor, but the line was busy  when 
they tried to do this. They told Mr W they would  try again, but Ive not seen anything to show  
that they did. But Mr W didnt follow this up with Kindertons, and he instructed  his own 
solicitor to act for him. While Kindertons couldve followed up on the referral, I cant  say that 
Mr W has suffered  any inconvenience or loss because  they didnt.
Ive seen there was a three week delay in sending the uninsured losses  invoice to the third 
party insurer. But Ive also seen the third party insurer  took four months to pay this invoice, 
and they asked Mr W to supply further evidence. While I understand Mr Ws frustration,  I 
agree that the time taken by the third party insurer to make  this payment is unlikely to have  
been caused by Kindertons initial delay.  Because of this, I agree that an apology  is the most  
appropriate remedy.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Kindertons Ltd should 
apologise to Mr W and pay him £350  to compensate him for the problems caused by the 
service they provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6045468