K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains Tesco  Personal Finance PLC is unfairly holding him liable for a loan which 
he didnt apply for.
background
In June 2016, Tesco approved a loan for £20,000 in the name of Mr W.  The money was 
paid into a joint account  held at the time by Mr W and his wife.  Days  later,  the full amount 
was transferred into an account  in his wifes name.   Until  May 2018, repayments for this loan 
were paid by direct  debit  from the joint account  - £311.50 per month.
But Mr W says he didnt apply for this loan.  His ex-wife told him she had applied  for one in 
her name alone to invest in her business.  He worked away  from home  regularly and was off 
shore.  He says he rarely  checked  his statements  because he was away a lot of the time and 
because he never  felt he had to be careful with his spending.
When Mr W complained to Tesco  about  this in 2018,  it rejected his complaint. In its final 
response to him in March 2019, it relied  on the following:
-the details  on the loan application  were Mr Ws correct  details   including  questions  
about his credit  file;
-the loan was sent to a joint account;
-Mr W had not contacted Tesco to say it was taken out without his knowledge;
-in March 2018 Mr W had contacted  Tesco for a settlement figure and still hadnt 
raised the issue of the fraudulent application.
But Mr W was not happy with this response and brought  the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Tesco should do more  for Mr W.  He thought  it should refund any 
payments made after January 2019  (the date it received Mr Ws complaint), write  off the 
remainder of the loan,  remove  any negative markers  from Mr Ws credit file and pay him 
£100 for the poor service.
Neither Mr W nor Tesco agreed.   Mr W thought the full repayments  should be refunded and 
he should no longer be liable for the loan.  Tesco thought it had acted fairly in holding  him 
liable for it and did not want  to make any refunds.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I have  arrived at a 
different outcome than the investigator.  Ive explained to Tesco  and Mr W  that I intend to 
uphold the complaint in full and have allowed the opportunity for further submissions.  Tesco 
has done so but that does not change my decision.
I dont think Tesco can fairly hold Mr W liable  for this loan because  I think  it is entirely 
plausible that his wife made the application in his absence, transferred the funds into her 
account and allowed the repayments to come out of the joint account  on the pretence  that 
the loan was in her name alone.
Ref: DRN68858242Tesco submits this loan is a marital debt and by this, it means  that it is a debt accumulated 
whilst Mr W was married and one which both partners take responsibility for.  I disagree.   
Debts in one spouses name  do not automatically become the liability of the other.
I think Mr W gives a credible and consistent  account of how he worked off shore and would 
not regularly check  his finances  instead  leaving this to his ex-wife.  He thinks  his ex-wife  
intercepted any post Tesco would have  sent in relation  to the loan. 
And I have  listened  to the call which Mr W made to Tesco  in March 2018.  At  this time he 
clearly has knowledge  of the loan and is requesting a settlement figure.   Mr W says he 
thought about trying to pay the loan off as he didnt want  to get his wife into trouble.  They  
have children together.
During that call Mr W has no details of the loan to give to the customer  service  
representative and he is vague about  the amount of the direct debit which  leaves his 
account.
So I am afraid that I do not agree with Tescos  submissions that this was a debt for which  Mr 
W is jointly  liable and neither do I agree with its submissions that Mr W ever accepted liability  
for it.
Finally, if Tesco propose  to chase Mr Ws ex-wife for the remainder of the debt, that is a 
matter for Tesco.  It is not relevant to the outcome of this complaint.  Mr  W has asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision because he was not happy with the response received from Tesco or 
from our investigator.
He now has that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must:
-refund  any payments  made towards this loan held in Mr Ws name
-remove any trace of the debt and/or negative markers from Mr Ws credit  file
-cease to hold Mr W liable for this debt
-pay Mr W £100 in compensation for the poor service
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885824