K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way his life insurance policy  was sold to him by Countrywide 
Principal Services Limited. He says he was single  with no dependents,  so didnt need  the 
policy.
Background
In 2010, Mr H was a first time buyer taking out a mortgage on a property we has buying. 
Countrywide provided him with advice to take out a decreasing term assurance policy  to 
provide life cover to repay  the mortgage in the event of his death. The policy was set up to 
provide cover in line with the mortgage  amount  and term. 
In 2019, Mr H complained  to Countrywide  saying he thought  the policy had been mis-sold as 
he didnt have a need for life cover. He was also concerned that he had a need  for critical 
illness cover  but this wasnt sold to him. 
One of investigators  looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld  and 
explained that he thought  that Mr H did have a need for the policy. Mr H didnt accept the 
investigators findings, so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Countrywide recommended the policy to Mr H so it needed to make sure it was suitable for 
his needs and circumstances. To help me decide whether it did this, Ive reviewed the 
evidence available   including  Mr Hs recollections  and the documentation that was 
completed at the time the policy was sold. 
Countrywide has supplied  a copy of the mortgage  planner document  it says was completed 
at the time. This records details of Mr Hs personal circumstances. Based on the information  
given, Countrywide  recommend  several mortgage and protection products to Mr H, which  
the advisor said were  suitable for him. It seems  Mr H was recommended both life cover and 
critical illness cover to protect him in the event of illness or death during his mortgage term. 
But from what Ive seen,  Mr H only took out life cover through  a decreasing term assurance 
policy. 
Mr H was a first time buyer taking out a repayment  mortgage. The policy he took out was a 
decreasing type,  meaning the life cover was set up to reduce in line with the outstanding 
amount on his mortgage. This is suitable  protection for the debt Mr H was taking on.  
Mr H didnt have any dependants, but this doesnt mean it was completely unsuitable to have 
life cover in place. It isnt unusual for people to want their property to pass to someone else 
in their family. Taking  out cover prevents the possibility of leaving a debt for their family to 
deal with. The documentation completed  at the time of this sale records  that Mr H wanted to 
leave the property to his family should  he die. So it does seem  he had an interest in having  
life cover so that the house would  be left to his next of kin mortgage free. I can also see that 
the life appeared to be affordable for Mr H. So I think it was suitable for Countrywide to 
recommend the life cover policy to Mr H.
Ref: DRN63179972Mr H has raised  concerns about the validity of the mortgage planning document.  I accept 
this document  isnt signed by him but it does  contain a significant  amount of detail about his 
personal circumstances at the time.  And I havent  seen anything  to make me doubt the 
accuracy. So, I think its reasonable  to place weight on the information in this document  
when deciding what was most likely discussed during the sales  process. Ive also considered  
what Mr H says about not remembering a discussion about leaving the property to his family. 
The sales  meeting took place many  years ago, so it can be difficult to recall exactly  what 
was discussed.  Ive taken into account  Mr Hs recollections but I dont think  the balance  of 
evidence supports his version of events. 
Ive considered Mr Hs comments about  not being  sold critical illness  cover. It isnt clear  why 
he didnt take out this type of policy as the mortgage planner document  records that it was 
recommended to him. I note Mr H told our investigator that he has a vague memory of being 
asked to attend a medical appointment as part of the application  for the critical illness policy  
but he missed it. Based  on this is seems most likely the reason why the policy didnt 
commence was because  of this missed appointment. In any case,  I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest Countrywide did anything to prevent Mr H from taking out a critical illness policy. So 
I havent found that it did anything wrong here. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation and there  was a need 
for the life cover the policy  provided.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6317997