K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank  Limited unfairly applied charges to his secured loan 
account when  he was in financial difficulties. Hed like the charges and related interest to be 
refunded.
background
Mr D took out a loan of about £8,000 with Shawbrook in May 2010. The loan was secured by 
a second charge on Mr Ds property.  Mr D didnt maintain  payments and the account fell into 
arrears. Shawbrook applied charges, including late payment fees, legal fees and the costs  of 
visits by field agents. The loan was repaid in 2018.
Mr D complained to Shawbrook, saying the charges applied to his account were unfair as he 
was in financial difficulty. He says the charges dont represent the true cost to Shawbrook  of 
administering the account and are used as a means of increasing  profits.  
Our investigator said we could only look into charges applied in the six years  before Mr D 
made his complaint  that is from November  2012.  Mr D accepted wed look into his 
complaint on this basis. Our investigator said it wasnt fair for Shawbrook  to apply late 
payment fees in months where  Mr D made  the contractual monthly payment or more. He 
said these fees should be refunded, with interest.  Our investigator said other fees had been 
applied correctly.
Mr D agreed. Shawbrook didnt agree, saying it was entitled to apply a fee when a payment 
is late or less than the contractual monthly payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D was unable to maintain payments for his second charge loan with Shawbrook  and his 
account fell into arrears. Mr D says it was unfair for Shawbrook to apply charges when he 
was in financial difficulty, and the charges are excessive. 
Shawbrook reviewed the charges applied to Mr Ds account and identified some charges 
which it offered to refund. It says other charges were applied  correctly to Mr Ds account  in 
accordance with the terms  of the loan and its tariff of charges. 
While theres been  a number of changes in regulations during the time Mr Ds loan has been 
outstanding, similar themes  have run through the rules thoughout.  That is, Shawbrook 
shouldnt apply charges unreasonably  and any charges should be for no more  than 
necessary to cover its reasonable costs. It has to treat its customers fairly.
Our investigator set out what charges had been applied  to Mr Ds account and whether he 
considered them to be both fair and in accordance with Shawbrooks  tariff. Having looked at 
the history of the account, I agree with the investigator that, on the whole, these charges 
were applied correctly  and fairly. The parties  also agreed with most of what  the investigator  
said and so I wont set out all of the charges here in detail. 
Ref: DRN66648782What is in dispute is whether it was fair for Shawbrook to apply  late payment fees in months 
that Mr D made the contractual monthly payment in full or an overpayment. 
Mr Ds account was in and out of arrears throughout the time the loan was outstanding. He 
did clear the arrears from time to time. Mr D often  made payments after the due date but 
within the same calendar month. Some of these payments  were  only a few days late. 
Dealing with an account in arrears involves additional work for the lender. So it applies a fee 
to cover this. Here,  Shawbrook applied  a late payment fee to Mr Ds account immediately 
after the due date was missed. I dont think it was reasonably necessary for Shawbrook  to 
carry out additional work each time this happened   especially when the payment arrived  
within a few days. And I cant see from the evidence provided that Shawbrook did always  
carry out additional work as a result of the payment arriving late.
It might well have  been easier  if Mr D had been in contact with Shawbrook and perhaps 
agreed a concession about  when  in the month payments would be made. But Mr D was 
making payments  to the account. Provided  he made the contractual monthly payment (or an 
overpayment) the arrears  didnt increase.  The conduct of Mr Ds account would have 
suggested that a payment was likely to arrive each month, and that he made  over payments 
to reduce his arrears  when he could. By applying charges Shawbrook  made  it more  difficult  
for Mr D to clear his arrears when he was making  efforts to do this. I dont think  it was fair for 
Shawbrook to apply  late payment fees to Mr Ds account in these circumstances.
I dont think Shawbrook should have applied late payment fees in months when it received 
the contractual monthly payment (or more). So it should refund these fees, with interest.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
refund  the charges which it offered to refund, if it hasnt already done so;
refund  late payment  fees applied in the months  that Mr D made his contractual  monthly  
payment or more;  plus,
pay 8% simple interest on the refunded charges  from the date they were applied  to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6664878