K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he lost interest on his savings certificates  because  of the way National 
Savings and Investments dealt with his request to cash some of them in.
background
National Savings  and Investments (NS&I) wrote to Mr P a month before his savings maturity 
date of 12 May 2019 setting out his maturity options. Mr P replied  in good time choosing  to 
cash in part of his investment and to reinvest the balance.
Where customers  cash in their certificates on maturity, and the maturity  date is a non-
banking day, they receive  their matured funds  on the next working  day. In this case 12 May 
2019 was a Sunday and so Mr P should have  expected to receive  his money  on 13 May,  
which he did. But Mr P believes he lost 4 days interest on his savings because  NS&I paid his 
maturing funds by BACS transfer, and as this was set in train on Thursday 9 May it therefore  
follows that his savings attracted no further interest  after that date. Consequently, he 
complained to NS&I  about his lost interest.
NS&I rang Mr P in response to his complaint.  It explained that it used BACS  transfers  
rather than the speedier  faster payments system  because it wasnt a clearing bank and so 
didnt have the same facilities  as a bank or building society. It did however accept that it did 
offer faster payments for some investments, but not fixed  rate products such as that held by 
Mr P. NS&I  has said to us that it believed Mr P was satisfied with this explanation and it 
wrote to him closing his complaint,  but offering him the required referral rights  to our service.
Mr P complained to us because he continued to believe that he had lost 4 days  interest  on 
his maturing certificates. And he said that the maturity  statement hed received  didnt  reflect 
that fact as it didnt  show that his account had effectively been closed on 9 May when NS&I 
had initiated the BACS transfer.
In summary  our investigators view was that NS&I  had done nothing wrong and that it had 
processed Mr Ps maturity instructions in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision because the position still appeared to be that his 
savings no longer attracted interest  after 9 May.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When NS&I wrote to Mr P in April setting out his maturity options  it included an estimated  
maturity figure. This was based on the certificates continuing to accrue interest  until the 
maturity date of 12 May and before  NS&I  had received any instructions from Mr P about 
what should then happen. In the event the actual maturity value paid to Mr P was slightly 
higher than the estimated  value. This of itself should have given Mr P some  comfort that his 
savings hadnt  stopped  attracting interest  before the maturity date. If they had the 
expectation would have been for a lower  maturity value than that originally  estimated.  In 
addition the maturity statement sent to Mr P shows the interest  added  up until 12 May.
But that said I understand Mr Ps concern that initiation of a BACS transfer  on 9 May 
appeared to imply  that his savings no longer accrued interest beyond that date. And so for 
Ref: DRN60282722the avoidance of doubt I asked our investigator  to write to NS&I  to confirm  the date to which  
it had paid interest. It replied saying   we paid interest and index linking totalling £130.77 
up until 12 May.
And so on the basis of the information I have I am satisfied that Mr P received interest  on his 
savings until the stated maturity date and did not lose out as he had feared  he might have 
done.
Mr P also commented that he thought that in this day and age NS&I  should be using the 
faster payments  system  rather  than BACS. NS&I has said that it doesnt do so for its fixed  
rate products,  which  is a business decision it is entitled to take and not one with which I have  
the authority to interfere. But as I have said Mr P hasnt been adversely affected  by NS&I 
using BACS.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6028272