K820x#14complaint
Mr D has brought this complaint as the executor of the estate of his mother, the late Mrs D. 
The complaint is about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with a 
loan and a credit card with Clydesdale Bank  Plc (Clydesdale).  
background
Mrs D complained to Clydesdale in 2010  that she had been mis-sold PPI with her credit  card 
taken out in July 1997.  At the time Clydesdale responded saying that the PPI wasnt          
mis-sold. Mrs D brought her complaint to this service and our adjudicator agreed with the 
business that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.  No further action was taken at that time.
In 2018 Clydesdale contacted Mr D, as sadly Mrs D had passed away  by this date and he 
was the executor of her estate. Clydesdale said it had now rechecked all its records and 
found that Mrs D had also taken out PPI with a loan in September  1993.  
Clydesdale said it thought this policy with the loan had been  mis-sold. And it had also 
reviewed its original decision about the credit  card sale and now considered that also had 
been mis-sold. So Clydesdale offered compensation to refund the costs of both policies and 
also pay some compensatory interest  for the time Mrs D was out of pocket for the PPI costs.
Mr D has not raised any concerns about  the amount of compensation offered for each of the 
policies. His complaint is that some additional compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to his mother should be paid. This is because when she originally  
complained that the PPI with her credit card was mis-sold, Clydesdale didnt uphold her 
complaint. He also thinks Clydesdale should have identified  the PPI on the loan in 2010 
when Mrs D raised the complaint about  the PPI on the credit card.
Clydesdale said that at the time of its assessment in 2010 it had followed its policy  approach 
to assessing the mis-sale of the PPI on Mrs Ds credit card and this resulted in a finding that 
the PPI wasnt mis-sold.  However it had internally  reviewed that approach  in more recent 
years, with more information available for many consumers, and it had now applied its new 
approach and decided that the PPI was mis-sold.  
Also when Mrs D had originally made  a complaint  it had only been about  the PPI on her 
credit card. So Clydesdale hadnt checked  for PPI on any other borrowings. Again its 
approach now was different. 
Clydesdale has identified  Mrs D had a mortgage  and several loans with Clydesdale,  
although only one loan and her credit  card had ever had PPI attached. It said it had applied  
its processes and policy correctly at the time in 2010, so hadnt made an error. So it didnt 
feel any further compensation  for distress  and inconvenience was due.
Mr D didnt agree and brought the complaint  to this service. Our adjudicator said what  
Clydesdale had offered as compensation  was fair. Mr D was still unhappy and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67378102Clydesdale has now offered compensation because of mis-sold PPI on Mrs Ds credit card 
and a loan. I have looked at how it has worked  out the compensation which  I would expect to 
put Mrs D in the position she would  have been  if the PPI hadnt  been mis-sold.
The credit card opened in 1997. But I can see from the statement summaries provided  the 
PPI was only added in 2005  and ran until August 2010. Clydesdale has worked out the total 
premiums paid, the account rate interest  caused  as a result  of the PPI being  added and also 
added compensatory  interest at 8% simple per year for all the time Mrs D was out of pocket.
The loan was taken  out in September 1992.  It ran to term which was only one year. And 
Clydesdale has in the compensation taken the premium that was added  to the loan for PPI 
and also included the interest  caused  as a result. In addition  it has again worked out 
compensatory interest  at 15% before April 1993  and 8% simple for the time after this.
In both cases the 15% and 8% simple interest  is included as compensatory  interest  for being 
out of pocket, as Mrs D didnt have the use of the money that had been  paid for the PPI. This 
was worked out to the date of February 2018 when the offer letter was sent to Mr D.
I think what Clydesdale has offered is fair compensation to settle  this complaint.
I have considered Mr Ds comments about the stress and upset caused to his mother in 
2010 when she first complained to Clydesdale about the PPI and her complaint  wasnt  
upheld. I can understand why he is angry and upset  also about this as this must be a very 
emotive situation for him. 
But I cant say that Clydesdale  acted unfairly in 2010 or intentionally did anything  wrong  or 
made an error. It applied  the principles that were required  at that time and said the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold.  That decision  by Clydesdale was brought to this service and our adjudicator 
said on the evidence  provided it seemed the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
At the time as the PPI with the loan was not raised  by Mrs D, Clydesdale  only investigated 
the PPI complained about which was related to the credit card.
Things have changed since that time and more information is now available to Clydesdale. 
So its approach and its decision has changed.  Compensatory interest  has been paid for all 
the years  since 2010. So some  compensation for the change of outcome has already been 
awarded as in 2010 far less compensatory  interest would have been due.
If Mrs D had been able to bring  this complaint now herself, I could still not find that 
Clydesdale did anything  in 2010 that would have made me say additional compensation 
should be paid.  In addition the estate of Mrs D has suffered no additional loss and I cannot 
award a payment for trouble and upset  to the estate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think the offer made by Clydesdale  Bank Plc is fair. If 
the compensation has not yet been  paid the 8% simple interest should be updated to the 
date of final payment.  
Ref: DRN67378103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D on behalf  of 
the estate to accept  or reject my decision before  1 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6737810