K820x#14Complaint
Mr K has complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI). He isnt happy about  the way it 
settled a claim under his car insurance policy.
Background
Mr K was involved  in an accident  while completing a manoeuvre on a side road. He says 
that the other driver  (the third party) reversed into him while he was stationary in his car. But 
the third party  driver made a claim and said that Mr K was to blame for the accident.
Having reviewed the circumstances, UKI agreed a 50/50 settlement with the third partys 
insurer on a without prejudice basis. Mr K complained  about  this but UKI didnt change the 
split liability decision.  So Mr K complained to this service. He felt UKI hadnt properly 
considered the evidence  he supplied  including a recording of a conversation between him 
and the third party shortly  after the accident.  
One of investigators  looked into things for Mr K but didnt  uphold his complaint. She thought 
that UKI had acted  reasonably in settling the claim on a 50/50 basis.
As Mr K didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for road traffic accidents. That is the role of the 
courts. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably  in line with 
the policy terms in the way it has dealt with the competing claims.  Under  Mr Ks policy, like 
most similar policies, it gives  the insurer the right to take over a claim. It can decide whether  
to contest a third partys  claim or accept liability (on a full or split basis).  Ive considered 
whether its decision  on this was reasonable.
In reaching my decision, Ive reviewed the evidence available to UKI when it made its 
decision. This includes the text messages and video that Mr K supplied. This evidence 
relates to events that took place shortly  after the incident, so doesnt show exactly  what  
happened. Mr K believes  this supports  that the third party driver admitted he was at fault but 
UKI doesnt agree that the third party driver accepted liability. Having considered this 
evidence myself, I think UKI has taken  a reasonable position. There is some discussion 
about the incident between Mr K and the other  driver but I dont think  this means UKI were  
wrong to accept partial liability on Mr Ks behalf. UKI also chose not rely on a witness  
statement that suggested Mr K was at fault. So again, despite Mr Ks reservations about the 
impartiality of the witness, it didnt impact the decision UKI came  to. 
UKI has provided copies  of its contact notes showing attempts to establish  liability to defend 
Mr K. It looked at the evidence again when  Mr K raised concerns about  being held solely  
liable. The testimonies of Mr K and the third party driver are conflicting. There is no other 
evidence of the actual incident  (other than the witness  statement that UKI has discounted).  
This means  it is very difficult to establish who was at fault. All of this leads me to find that UKI 
has treated Mr K fairly  when handling  the claim and accepting part liability on Mr Ks behalf. 
Ref: DRN62054662I have also considered Mr Ks comments about  the way his claim has been handled and that 
this has caused  him stress. But I have reached the same conclusion  as our investigator  
largely for the same reasons. I can see there was an issue  with UKI having to re-request a 
copy of the video that Mr K supplied. I understand why this was frustrating  and caused  him 
concern about  the handling of the claim. But, I dont think this had a negative impact on the 
decision made on the claim as Im satisfied this evidence was fairly considered by UKI.  
Its unfortunate that the claim affected  Mr Ks no claims discount and this meant the renewal 
premium was higher   although UKI confirmed he didnt chose to renew  his policy. But, this 
was because the claim against his policy counted  as a fault claim, because UKI accepted  
partial liability. And, under the terms of Mr Ks policy, a fault claim meant  his no claims 
discount was reduced.
In conclusion, I think UKI has acted reasonable in the circumstances. I say this as it thought 
that a split liability settlement (50/50) was the best it could achieve. And by making the 
decision on a without  prejudice basis it meant  Mr K could pursue the matter through  the 
courts if he wanted to. I can understand Mr Ks disappointment here, especially the impact 
this has had on his no claims discount,  which in turn affects the cost of his premium.  But as 
explained, I think UKI acted reasonably in how it dealt with the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6205466