K820x#14complaint
The representatives of the estate of the late Mrs W have complained that Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her an Additions  account prior to 1997  and a Tech  Pack in 2017.
background
Our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt  think that Barclays  mis-sold  the 
packaged account or the Tech pack.  The representatives of the estate of the late Mrs W 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint and make a final decision.  
For the sake of readability for the rest of the decision when I refer to Mrs W I am referring  
to the late Mrs W and her representatives as appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, 
I dont think Mrs Ws complaint  should be upheld. Id like to explain why in a bit more  detail.
the sale of the Additions account
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs W was given  a clear choice in taking  the Additions 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  having weighed up what  both parties have 
been able to provide me with.  
As the Additions  upgrade  took place more than twenty years  ago, unsurprisingly,  there isnt 
much documentation  left from the sale. But I do think that Mrs W used the main  benefit that 
came with the account. While Mrs W had a fee free account previously, this was free in the 
context of there being no fees for standard everyday banking  facilities   such as paying  
cheques, making  debit  card transactions and paying direct  debits. But if Mrs W wanted to 
have and use an overdraft  facility there  would  be a monthly fee. Specifically it looks like she 
wouldve had to pay a £5 a month  overdraft  usage fee each month  she used her overdraft. 
And if she was overdrawn, Mrs W wouldve also paid interest  on any overdrawn balance.
On the other hand the Additions account  cost £5 a month. Having the Additions account 
meant that Mrs W wouldnt  have to pay the £5 a month overdraft usage fee shed have  had 
to pay on her existing account. The account  also included  access to an interest-free  
overdraft of £100. This meant anyone who was using  an overdraft within their agreed limit 
was likely to save on what theyd pay on a fee free account, if they upgraded.
The earliest account ledgers that are available (which are from 1997) show that she was 
using an overdraft fairly regularly, which she wouldve  had to pay a fee for if she hadnt 
upgraded. So I think having  the Additions  package was always likely to cost her no more  
than she was paying already while providing her with additional  benefits  such  as purchase 
protection, card holder  protection  and life assurance cover.  So I think that as the account 
Ref: DRN67556822was going to save Mrs W money I think that is why it is more likely  than not that this is why 
she agreed to the upgrade albeit in circumstances she no longer recalled.
I note that over time the Additions account  had additional benefits added  to it and this may 
mean that the account became less useful to Mrs W over the years  that she held it and the 
cost of the account may have also increased.  But I think  that at the time that it was taken out 
that the main  benefit was of use to Mrs W.
I cant say for certain what Mrs W was told at the time of the upgrade  and it may have been  
the case that everything was not explained to her. But I cant  see anything specific  that Mrs 
W may not have been told that wouldve altered her decision to agree to this account given 
that she was in a position  to use the main benefit of the account which wouldve potentially 
saved her money on a monthly basis. So overall  I do not think  that this account was mis-
sold.
the migration to the Tech pack
This was not a sale of a new account.  Banks  are allowed to change  the range of accounts 
they provide and sometimes they change those on offer for their own commercial  reasons. 
But when they do so, they must tell customers affected by the changes  in advance. In this 
instance I can see that two letters were sent prior to this change which were correctly  
addressed given this I dont think  that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
I want to reassure the representatives  of the estate  of the later Mrs W that Ive looked at all 
the information provided about this complaint. And Ive thought about everything theyve 
said. Although having  done  so and while I appreciate that this will be very disappointing I 
dont think that the Additions account  was mis-sold  or that Barclays did anything wrong in the 
migration to the Tech pack.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold The Estate of Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask the 
representatives of the Estate of the late Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
5 August 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6755682