K820x#14Complaint
Mr W says that £500 was withdrawn from his Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) account without his 
authority or consent. He believes his account  has been hacked  as he hasnt disclosed his 
Personal Identification Number (PIN)  to anyone and he had his card in his possession at 
all times. Hed like this amount to be refunded.  
background
Mr W has an account with Lloyds Bank. On 30 December 2017  at 15.36pm an Automated  
Teller Machine (ATM) withdrawal from his account was made  for £500.  Mr W told Lloyds he 
didnt make this withdrawal. 
Lloyds has said it wont refund Mr Ws £500 because on balance, it thinks it is most likely 
that either;  someone  has access  to Mr Ws card and PIN or Mr W has provided someone 
with his card and PIN. It said this would be considered a breach of his account terms and 
conditions.  
Mr W wasnt happy with Lloyds response  and brought his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into matters  for him. She didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint because  
she thinks on balance considering all the evidence; its more likely than not that Mr W made 
the withdrawal.
Mr W did not agree and asked for an ombudsman decision, so the complaint has been  
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Lloyds to refund the disputed withdrawal to Mr W, Ill explain why.
Mr W is adamant he didnt withdraw £500 from his account on 30 December 2017. He 
believes his account  had been hacked. By this I think what Mr W means is that his card had 
been cloned.  
However Im satisfied from the evidence Lloyds has provided that Mr Ws card had not been 
cloned, as whoever made the withdrawal had both the genuine card and PIN. I say this 
because Lloyds has shown that the withdrawal was made and authenticated  at an ATM, 
where the genuine chip in the card was read and the corresponding PIN was entered 
correctly at the first attempt. 
So Ive gone  on to consider the possible explanations for how the disputed withdrawal was 
made using  the genuine  card and PIN. These are that;
-Mr W used  them to make the withdrawal himself;
-someone with Mr Ws authority used his card and PIN to make the withdrawal; or 
-someone was able to take Mr Ws card and PIN and use them  to make the 
withdrawal, without  his authority or consent.
Ref: DRN63518062Mr W has said; 
-he was still in possession of the genuine  card when he contacted Lloyds - disputing 
the withdrawal; 
-the card was in his possession at the time the alleged fraudulent withdrawal took 
place; and 
-he hasnt written  down  or disclosed his PIN to anyone.
Ive also considered Mr Ws recollection of events  on the day. 
Mr W has confirmed  that he was in the vicinity of the ATM  at around the time in question. He 
has said he was carrying out his usual routine activities. He spent the day at the office  
finishing up around 16.00 and did his weekly shopping before he went  home. Mr W made no 
purchases with his Lloyds debit card on 30 December 2017  so its not possible that his PIN 
was compromised  by someone overseeing him entering it when paying for his shopping.    
From what  Ive seen, I think its unlikely that someone was able to take Mr Ws card,  
somehow obtain  his PIN, make  the withdrawal and return his card without him noticing. It is 
most likely that Mr W performed or authorised the transaction  - as there  was no opportunity 
where his card and PIN had been  compromised.
Id also expect a fraudster to empty an account  quickly to maximise their gain before the 
fraudulent actions are discovered and the card cancelled and/or account  frozen.  But on this 
occasion there were  no incorrect  PIN attempts made, only a single withdrawal for £500. A 
balance enquiry was carried out before and after the withdrawal, with a small balance 
remaining on the account - yet no further withdrawal attempts were made in the days 
following - so on balance,  I dont think this is the behaviour of a fraudster. 
Ive also taken into consideration  that Mr W didnt report the fraudulent withdrawal or cancel 
his card until over a week later on 7 January 2018, despite reviewing his account  balance on 
the 03 January  2019 and the 05 January  2018. I wouldve expected him to have noticed his 
account was overdrawn and to have reported this immediately. 
Ive taken on board Mr Ws submission that he only ever used the same Lloyds ATM 
machine for withdrawals  and the ATM  machine used to withdraw the £500  on 
30 December 2017 was not one he would usually use. But the location of the machine where 
the alleged fraudulent withdrawal took place was right next to the ATM machine used 
regularly by Mr W. I think its possible Mr W couldve used this machine, since  both are side 
by side without realising  or it couldve been the case that his usual one may have been  out 
of order or busy on that particular day.   
Mr W has said if we were to check CCTV we would see that the withdrawal was not made by 
him. We were unable to obtain CCTV footage due to the length of time that has passed but 
even if we did identify  that someone  other  than Mr W had made the withdrawal - looking at 
the evidence in this particular case,  I dont think I could go onto confidently  say Mr W didnt 
authorise someone else to withdraw the funds   so under  the relevant rules  he would still be 
liable. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said and, having considered all of the evidence 
available to me, I think the most  likely explanation for the ATM  withdrawal is that Mr W made 
it himself but has maybe forgotten  that he did. 
Ref: DRN63518063I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I dont doubt his integrity or that he has 
made this complaint in good faith but I hope  he can understand why Ive reached the 
conclusion I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to reimburse the disputed ATM 
withdrawal or to do anything further to resolve Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019
Sonal Matharu 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6351806