K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) unfairly cancelled his motor  trade  
insurance policy.
All references to Gefion  include its agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. An extract  from that 
decision follows:
Mr E had a motor trade policy with Gefion  where  he insured a number of cars some of 
which he owned and others that he planned to sell.
In March 2018 he tried to add a new car on his motor insurers  database list (MID) but wasnt 
able to. Gefion  asked for his purchase receipt  but he wasnt able to provide it as he said the 
car was a gift from his brother.
Gefion then asked  to see the full vehicle registration documents  (V5Cs) for all the cars on 
Mr Es MID and also purchase  receipts. It also said if any of those vehicles had been  sold it 
would still need  purchase as well as sales receipts.
Mr E said he found out about this in May 2018  when  he received a seven day cancellation  
letter from Gefion. He said he provided the documents  requested but his policy  was still 
cancelled.
Mr E complained and said he wanted  the policy reinstated and for the cancellation to be 
removed from his record. Gefion rejected his complaint. Among other things it said that:
it only received the first page  of some  of the V5Cs  and only some of the purchase  
receipts.
it wanted to know  why one new keepers slips had been typed up when the rest were 
handwritten.
Mr Es brother  wasnt the registered keeper  of the car that was gifted to Mr E.
it had concerns about Mr E insuring family members cars on his policy and that 
family members were  driving his cars.
Mr E said he didnt  routinely get the full V5Cs or transfer vehicles into his name  so he could 
keep his costs  down. He said hed decided  not to keep the car that had been  gifted  to him 
because he couldnt  add it to the MID.
Mr E then complained to us but our investigator  didnt uphold  his complaint. He said Gefion 
was entitled to ask for additional  documentation  and as Mr E hadnt provided those in full it 
was entitled to cancel the policy.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN65739782my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Our investigator had originally set our file up against the broker instead  of Gefion. This is 
because it was the broker that was asking Mr E for the additional documentation. But I think  
the broker was merely  acting as a go between in relation  to obtaining the documents  from 
Mr E. I think anything  it did in relation to the cancellation it did as Gefions agent  because the 
decision to cancel the policy was ultimately  Gefions. As this complaint is about the 
cancellation, this decision is against  Gefion. Our investigator informed both parties  of this 
change before I went ahead with this decision.
I note Mr E may also be feeling let down by his brokers communication  with him. If so, he 
will have to complain separately to it about  this.
Mr Es policy  says that in addition to monitoring the vehicles on the MID,  Gefion will also 
require satisfactory evidence of trading. It says it will take steps to cancel the policy by giving 
seven days notice if it suspects trading activity which isnt of an acceptable standard. Unless 
agreed otherwise,  it will require evidence of trading activity such  as vehicle purchase and 
sales receipts and auction  house  invoices. The policy also entitles Gefion to search and 
update various  databases  and share some information with other  agencies  or insurers for a 
number of reasons  including validation  of the policy.
Under the terms of his policy  Mr E is required to update the motor  insurers database (MID) 
with details of cars he owns or is intending to sell or repair provided that hes had them for 
more than 14 days. And he is also required  to remove cars that have been sold from the 
MID.
After Mr E wasnt  able to add a new car on his MID in March 2018,  Gefion  said it had some 
concerns and asked  to see the purchase  receipt  via Mr Es broker. I think  this was 
reasonable and also in accordance with the policy. Mr E wasnt  able to provide this as he 
said the car was a gift.
On 26 and 27 March  2018 Gefion asked  the broker for up to date documentation including 
full V5Cs and purchase/sales invoices in relation to each of the eight cars Mr E had on his 
MID at that time. It said if it didnt receive this information within  seven days, the policy  would 
be subject to cancellation. Again I think this was in accordance with the policy  terms so 
I dont think Gefion was acting unreasonably.  And I note it didnt cancel the policy  at that 
stage.
From what  Ive seen, Gefion seems to have chased  the broker again (at some point in May 
2018) and said it hadnt received the information it had asked for. It also asked why the new 
keepers slip for the car that was gifted to Mr E had been typed up. It said all the others  were  
handwritten. It said again that it needed the information it had previously requested  within 
seven days or the policy would  be subject  to cancellation.
The seven day notice  of cancellation was issued on 22 May 2018.  Mr E called  his broker  the 
following day. The brokers notes show it spoke  to Gefion and then told Mr E that the 
documents were  required in order to validate  the policy.
Ref: DRN65739783From the brokers notes it seems Mr E sent some  documents  in and called the broker on 29 
May 2018. The broker appears  to have called Gefion who said what  had been provided  was 
still not enough. It said only the front page was provided for two of the V5Cs  and, though  
Mr E told the broker he could provide the full V5Cs, he also said he couldnt provide 
purchase receipts for those cars. The broker contacted Gefion who said it was proceeding 
with the cancellation.
From what  Ive seen, Mr E provided  receipts  for some of the cars on the MID but not all. 
I cant see that he provided purchase  receipts  for two of the vehicles he owned  himself- 
other than the one that was gifted  to him. And though he said he could provide  the full V5Cs 
for those  two vehicles  its not clear why he didnt.  And he also only seems  to have provided a 
blank new keepers slip for a third vehicle he owned. I also cant  see that Mr E explained why 
one of the new keepers slips had been typed up though I note that was for the car that he 
didnt end up insuring  on his policy. Based on this evidence, I think Gefion was acting within  
the policy terms when  it cancelled the policy.
Mr E said he didnt  have enough  notice to provide the documentation  that was required. But 
as I said above,  Gefion seems to have warned the policy would be cancelled  in March  and 
May before the 22 May 2018 letter. So I think it gave enough notice. Also Mr E said he didnt 
have all the receipts or the V5Cs  so, based  on the current evidence,  even  if he had more 
time it seems unlikely that he wouldve been able to provide this evidence in any event.
For the reasons  above, I think Gefion acted reasonably both in relation to the requests it 
made for further documentation and also in relation  to the cancellation.
I understand that Mr E will be disappointed  with my decision and I note he said he has found 
it hard to find new insurance.  But for the reasons I gave above I dont think  Gefion acted 
unfairly or unreasonably on this occasion. I also note it issued  Mr E with a pro-rata refund of 
his premium and I think this is reasonable.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, Im not considering upholding this complaint.
developments
The deadline  to respond to my provisional  decision was the 11 January 2019. Gefion hasnt 
responded to my provisional decision.
Mr Es response included the following  comments:
His complaint is about the broker so hes not happy  my decision is against  Gefion.
He is unhappy  with the broker because  it delayed  asking him to provide information 
Gefion required from him.
Had he been asked  for the V5Cs in time he wouldve been able to provide them 
within two to three weeks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65739784Ive decided to proceed with my final decision despite the fact that Gefion hasnt responded 
to it. As I said above the deadline to respond  to my provisional decision expired on the 
11 January 2019.  Also Ive decided not to change the findings I made in my provisional  
decision and as Im not upholding this complaint  I dont think  proceeding without Gefions  
comments would cause  it any prejudice.
Mr E says his complaint  is against the broker. As I said in my provisional decision when Mr E 
complained to us he said he was unhappy about  the decision to cancel his policy.  This was 
Gefions responsibility  not the brokers. But as I also said in my provisional  decision  if Mr E is 
unhappy with the brokers communication with him- he says it delayed  asking  him for certain  
information- this is something  hell have to complain to the broker about separately.
Mr E says he wouldve  been able to provide the V5Cs within two to three  weeks if he was 
allowed more time to obtain them.  As I said in my provisional decision Gefion seems to have  
warned the policy  would be cancelled  in March and May 2018 before proceeding to cancel it 
at the end of May 2018. So I think it gave  enough  notice. And also it wasnt only the V5Cs  
that Mr E had failed  to provide but also some of the purchase receipts.  In any event as I said 
above if Mr E believes the broker delayed asking  him for information Gefion needed in order  
to validate his policy this is something hell have to complain to the broker about.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573978