K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund a number of cash machine 
withdrawals and retail payments made  using his debit card. He says his card was retained  
by a cash machine  and that the transactions followed soon afterwards. 
background
Mr G says that he tried to make  a cash machine withdrawal on the morning of 24 December 
2017. His card was, he says, retained in the machine. Later that morning it was used to 
make a cash machine  withdrawal, two withdrawals at a Barclays  assisted service device (or 
ASD) and three retail purchases. A fourth  purchase  payment was declined.  The card was 
reported as lost shortly  after midday.  
Mr G says he wasnt responsible for any of those transactions. He didnt have his card with 
him, because it had been retained. After that, hed tried unsuccessfully to block  it but wasnt 
able to contact  the bank.  Mr G also provided evidence,  in the form of an airline ticket  and 
passport stamps, that hed left the UK on holiday about three hours after the last use of the 
card. 
Barclays didnt however accept what Mr G had said. In summary, it said:
Its own records didnt  show that Mr G had tried to use the card before the first disputed 
use of it. The last use of it before that was the previous day. 
Whoever used the card would have had to know  the PIN and, for the ASD withdrawals, 
Mr Gs date of birth.
The last transaction was declined because its fraud alert systems were  triggered. 
Mr G didnt accept what the bank had said and referred the case to this service,  where one 
of our investigators considered it. He thought it was likely that Mr G authorised the 
transactions. Mr G asked that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
Mr G says that he used his card before the disputed transactions took place and that his 
card was retained by the cash machine. Clearly though, thats  not what  happened,  since  his 
card was later used in the same area. Its possible however that Mr Gs card was retained by 
a card trap  a device designed  to make it look as if the card had been retained  by the 
machine. Such a device would allow a fraudster  to retrieve the card. Having observed the 
PIN, the fraudster could  then use the card for further withdrawals and retail chip and PIN 
purchases. But, whilst thats a possibility, I need  to consider whether its likely to have 
happened. 
The bank says it has no record  of any earlier  use of the card on the same day. Even if a 
cash machine had been tampered with in the way Ive described, its likely  it would still read 
the card. Unfortunately,  Mr G hasnt been  able to provide details of the machine he says he 
used, so it hasnt  been possible to check the machine owners records for the day in 
Ref: DRN60008672question. But a cash trap of the type Ive described could enable a fraudster to obtain Mr Gs 
card and PIN without  him realising exactly what had happened. 
However, Mr Gs card wasnt only used to make chip and PIN transactions. It was also used 
to make two ASD withdrawals. Barclays indicated,  and our investigator  accepted,  that a 
withdrawal at one of its ASD machines would have  required additional security  such  as Mr 
Gs date of birth. In fact, it doesnt appear that was the case  for cash withdrawals of the 
values made  in this case. All that was needed was the PIN.     
Mr G says he tried to report  the card missing  when it was retained  in the cash  machine, but 
was unable to contact the bank. The banks records show however that the card was 
reported lost around  two hours after the first disputed transaction and nearly  an hour after a 
payment was declined.  Its unlikely that anyone other than Mr G would have done that. 
I note that Mr G provided information  about the flight he took later in the day. But it would 
have been possible  for him to carry out the transactions himself and still be at the airport  in 
time for that flight.  The fact that he was on a flight later the same day doesnt therefore mean 
that he couldnt have carried out the transactions himself.       
I also note that, while  Mr G contacted  Barclays about the disputed  transactions  when he 
returned to the UK in January 2018,  it was several  months before he took any further action.  
Given the sums involved, I might have expected him to do that rather  sooner than he did. 
For these, reasons, I agree with the investigator  that its more likely  than not that Mr G made  
or authorised the disputed transactions himself;  it wouldnt  therefore be fair to require 
Barclays to refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take nay further steps to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 17 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6000867