K822xcomplaint
Mrs S, who acts for herself and also her two sons,  Mr F1 and Mr F2, is unhappy that her late 
husband (Mr F)s pension  death benefits from Scottish  Widows  Limited  were  split between 
Mr F1, Mr F2 and Mr Fs cohabiting  partner Ms T  but no payment was made to her as his 
estranged wife. Whilst Mr F1 and Mr F2 are joined into this complaint, the dispute doesnt 
centre on the payment they should receive  but on Mrs S  so I will in the main  refer to Mrs S 
in this decision. She is represented by a solicitor, L.
background 
Ive already issued  a provisional decision on this complaint dated 4 September 2020, which 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I had significant  concerns about the explanations Scottish Widows 
had provided around its fourth discretionary decision on the distribution  of death benefits in 
September 2018, and how it had considered Mrs Ss evidence.  So I proposed that Scottish  
Widows should make a fifth discretionary decision. 
I explained I wasnt going to make an award  for costs because, in summary:
-I wasnt persuaded that when Scottish  Widows  initially changed its mind to being 
willing to pay benefits to the late Mr Fs estate, this in itself caused Mrs S further costs.  
If anything, Mrs S avoided incurring  costs while that temporarily was the position.
-There  was a loss of expectation when Scottish Widows then changed its mind again,  
but the new position it adopted (that it needed  to see further evidence) was the logical 
one to take in the face of a potential counter-claim from the other  beneficiaries.
-Although  the need to provide further  evidence has caused Mrs S costs in engaging L, 
it is a matter for the complainant to decide if they wish to be represented.  
-Its unusual for us to make an award  for costs  where the complainant  wouldnt need  
specialist assistance to tell us in laymans  terms why they were  unhappy  so that we 
could then look into the complexities of the situation ourselves. 
-We originally  referred L to the Frequently Asked  Questions on our website, which  
explain this. Whilst English wasnt Mrs Ss first language, we have translation and 
interpretation services available  in order to provide a level playing field for consumers.  
I also made Mrs S and L aware that her costs might  be considered as part of any award  a 
court might make  but if she accepts  a decision from me which doesnt award costs, its 
unlikely shell be able to go to court to recover those same  costs.
On the matter of upset  caused, I could only fairly consider the extent to which  Scottish 
Widows added unnecessary distress or inconvenience onto a matter  which  would 
undoubtedly have  been distressing due to Mr Fs sudden  death. And the position  Scottish  
Widows had adopted at the point the complaint was referred to us (that it would consider 
further evidence) was in my view the right one. So I considered an award of £350  would 
reflect the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience  caused by Scottish Widows earlier  
actions up to that point.
In response to the provisional decision, L asked if I was going to make  findings on the 
following:
Whether Mrs S qualified for a share of Mr Fs pension under s. 1(1)(a) Inheritance 
(Provision for Family and Dependants)  Act 1975;
Ref: DRN69860482Whether Scottish Widows as trustees  of the pension scheme, are subject to s. 1 
Trustee Act 2000;
Whether Scottish Widows are subject to CPR PD 57.16(5)  para.  (1)
L added that Mrs S disagreed that Mr F had moved  out of their home shortly after 2000 (they  
had in fact lived together  until 2006). She also wanted it to be noted that Mr Fs new partner 
Ms T didn't move in until just 3 months  before Mr F passed away, as Mr Fs sons  were still 
visiting him at home inbetween their studies and Ms Ts children were  also still at home. Ive 
since apologised to L that this information  had been  taken  from the Pensions  Ombudsman 
decision, which they provided in their evidence and I wasnt aware was in dispute. Im happy 
for this final decision to reflect the position as stated here.
L had highlighted that I had already said the case had become a complex one, and Mrs S 
was not aware  the ombudsman service provided  translation services. It would always  have  
required a native Spanish and English speaking DPA counsel,  practicing commercial law, to 
assist her. Reference  was made to information having been provided  by Mr Fs brother and 
that this information should have been approved by Mrs S. Her own comments  concluded,
I have always been in a disadvantaged position.  My husband knew I looked  after our 
children to the best of my ability despite  my low income and weak health. It saddens me 
that so much  weight  was put on the false and brief points provided  by my husband's 
brother without counting  on me. Human  factors were not considered, such as the fact I 
didn't have the means to provide for my children  after my husband's passing. I was 
excluded and not given the opportunity  to prove  my dependency on my husband.
I understand that C also copied this response to Scottish Widows.
Shortly afterwards, Scottish Widows informed us that it had agreed to re-assess  the claim as 
per my provisional decision and also intended  to pay the £350  I had awarded  for distress 
and inconvenience.
Scottish Widows  then communicated the outcome of reassessing  the claim to L before I was 
in a position to issue my final decision.  
L has made  clear to this service that it doesnt agree with how the claim has been 
reassessed and therefore, the entire matter is not yet resolved. It sought a further payment 
from Scottish Widows  in respect of the claim by a deadline  it set of 18 November 2020  and 
requested that I issue a final decision  on this complaint after that date.
Im not proceeding in the way L has requested, because the outcome of a reconsidered 
claim isnt part of this complaint. In my provisional decision I required Scottish Widows to 
reassess the claim  but I made very clear  that it was still Scottish Widows judgement  and 
not my own that determined whether  and to what extent the claim should succeed. So for 
that reason,  nothing  will be gained by waiting  in the context of this complaint about the 
historical way Scottish Widows had considered the evidence  on the claim. 
Indeed it will only serve to create  further confusion. I explained  in my provisional decision 
that its not the Financial Ombudsman  Services role to be involved in administering  Mrs Ss 
claim. We can only consider what it is alleged  Scottish Widows has got wrong in 
administering it. Scottish  Widows  actions  in reconsidering the claim after my provisional  
decision was issued  can be subject  to a new complaint. To that end it has confirmed to this 
Ref: DRN69860483service that it will issue  a new final response letter in relation to Ls concerns. If they are not 
satisfied with Scottish Widows response, that matter can be dealt with as a new complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  that I explained  in my provisional decision, I was satisfied that the claim 
should be reconsidered in light of the concerns I had about the way Mrs Ss evidence was 
considered  and the new evidence that had emerged since that time. Both parties  seem  to 
be in agreement on that, putting aside  for the purposes of this decision that they dont agree 
on the result. As that was the extent  to which Ill be considering the claim in this final 
decision there is little further I have  to say. 
Given that Scottish Widows has already agreed to reassess the claim Im not going to 
comment specifically on Ls observations about the Inheritance (Provision for Family and 
Dependants) Act 1975, the Trustee Act 2000  or the Civil Procedure Rules Practice 
Directions. I dont see that commenting specifically on these  would alter the overall outcome 
reached.
Our ombudsmen make  decisions on the basis of what is fair and reasonable. I will however  
confirm that in my provisional decision I had regard for Scottish  Widows obligations as 
trustee of the late Mr Fs death benefits to take into account the law, which also includes who 
qualified to benefit under  the pension death  benefit rules. And for Scottish Widows to ensure 
that it considered  all relevant evidence and arguments, and didnt consider irrelevant 
evidence or arguments,  when  it exercised  its discretion. I didnt find that Scottish Widows 
conduct meant it was necessary for me to make an award for Mrs Ss costs, but I did find 
that Scottish  Widows should pay £350  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I understand why L has picked up on my comment that the case has become complex. To 
be clear,  I meant that the case had become more protracted as a result of the time it took 
Mrs Ss new evidence to emerge; not because of the circumstances that led to me upholding 
the complaint  itself.  I mentioned in my provisional decision that there were a number of 
opportunities for L to provide evidence directly  to Scottish Widows which  were  not taken  up. 
If the evidence  which emerged later on during the complaint had been provided directly by 
Mrs S, I would still have upheld the complaint  and asked  for the claim  to be reconsidered.
The remaining  aspect which L considers meant it necessary for Mrs S to use a 
representative and claim for costs  was that English was not her first language. But this is an 
observation that could  be made of many  of our complainants.  I will feed Ls comments about 
our translation services back to our area that handles publications and our website content. 
But I think its relevant  to point out here that Mrs S had already engaged L as her 
representative before she came to the ombudsman  service.  I have  sympathy for any 
complainant faced with claiming death benefits in the more  unusual circumstances Mrs S 
was in, but I consider Mrs S appointed her representative knowing there  was no guarantee 
she would  be able to recover  her cost. So nothing here has persuaded me that an award for 
costs would be warranted in this case.
Ref: DRN69860484my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and require Scottish Widows Limited to review its discretionary 
decision on the payment of death benefits from the late Mr Fs policy  again  (something I 
understand it has now already done). I also require Scottish Widows Limited to pay Mrs S 
the sum of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling  of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S (and Mr F1 
and Mr F2, on whose behalf  she is also acting) to accept or reject my decision before 
9 December 2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69860485Provisional decision of 4 September  2020
background
The late Mr F had invested  in two personal  pension plans with Scottish Widows, but it says 
he hadnt completed an expression of wish (EoW)  form for the individuals hed like to benefit 
from the funds on his death before retirement.  
Under the terms of the discretionary trust which commonly covers death benefits  on 
personal pensions,  providers would take into account, but not necessarily follow, such a 
nomination  as they retain  discretion on which eligible parties the benefits  are paid to and in 
what proportions. (The reason the pension provider has that discretion is in order  for the 
death benefits not to be subject to inheritance tax.)
After being notified of Mr Fs death in January 2017,  I gather that in communications I 
havent seen Scottish  Widows indicated that it would consider an EoW form the late Mr F 
had completed in deciding where  to pay the death  benefits. In any event,  a provider would 
have asked the person notifying Mr Fs death  for details  of his closest relatives and those 
dependent on him, in order to contact those  individuals to gather evidence  of their eligibility.
In the meantime Mrs S appointed a legal  representative, whom Ill call L. Scottish Widows 
gave its decision to L in July 2017  that it had exercised  its discretion in favour of Mr F1, Mr 
F2 and Ms T in equal shares. It added that it needed to ensure that any death benefit was 
paid within  two years  of notification of Mr Fs death, otherwise any benefits paid as a lump  
sum (rather than an annuity or income drawdown) must then be paid to his estate.
At around this time HM Courts and Tribunals Service  acknowledged  Mrs S, Mr F1 and Mr 
F2s application for a Grant of Letters of Administration (I believe a Grant  of Probate would 
not apply as I understand Mr F died without  leaving a will.) Due to details of a number of 
other death benefit claims L has supplied to this service  we know that the wider 
circumstances at the time of Mr Fs death were as follows:
-Mr F and Mrs S had been  married  since 1990  with two children, but Mr F had moved 
out of their home shortly after 2000.
-A decree nisi was agreed on 24 March 2014  on the basis that they had lived apart for 
at least five years.
-As L puts it, they decided not to divorce and no decree absolute was granted.
-Mr Fs relationship with Ms T began in 2007 and moved into a situation of 
permanently cohabiting when each of their respective children moved  away from 
home.
-Before his death, Mr F and Ms Ts holiday home was purchased  in Ms Ts name.
L subsequently complained to Scottish Widows  that Mrs S had been excluded from its 
distribution of death benefits. He cited Scottish  Widows admission that it now didnt hold 
EoW forms  and the fact that it hadnt provided  lawful justification for its decision.
In October  2017 Scottish Widows initially decided to uphold the complaint. It offered Mrs S 
£100 for the upset caused and said it had decided to ask for Grant  of Probate and settle the 
claim to the late Mr Fs estate  so this represented its second discretionary decision on 
distributing the benefits. L seems to have  been  satisfied in a phone call with this outcome.
Ref: DRN69860486However Scottish Widows then reversed its decision in a third decision  dated  13 November 
2017. It said:
having considered  the matter further  internally we have decided it would not be 
appropriate to redact  our original decision in this way and payment should be made to the 
identified permitted beneficiaries.
Our original decision had been  to pay to three of the identified  potential beneficiaries [Mr 
F1, Mr F2 and Ms T] as we received  evidence  that satisfied us that [Ms T] and [the late Mr 
F] were financially dependent  on each other  at the date of his death. 
Although we did consider [Mrs S] as a potential beneficiary when we made our original 
decision we did not choose to include her as a beneficiary based on the information we had 
at the time of making  the decision.  We have  come to the conclusion we should  have given 
her the opportunity to provide us with information in support of her claim to allow  us to take 
full account of all the individual circumstances  of all the potential  beneficiaries.  We  
understand that divorce proceedings were  underway, however if [Mrs S] can provide proof of 
on-going financial  dependency between [the late Mr F] and herself as well as any other 
information which she considers would support her claim then this information will be fully 
considered and we will consider whether an amendment of the original decision would be 
warranted in this case.
L then complained  about  Scottish Widows second change  of decision. He noted that 
Scottish Widows  referred to having received  evidence in support of Ms Ts financial 
dependence but also referred  to Mrs S as a beneficiary of the pension. He considered  it had 
a contractual obligation to Mrs S as well as her two sons under the Contract  Rights of Third  
Parties Act 1999, to at the very least provide copies of the evidence  it had relied upon and/or  
the late Mr Fs EoW  form. He referred the complaint  on behalf  of her and her two sons  to our 
service in January  2018, as shed been  given six months from October 2017 to refer that 
complaint. We confirmed to Scottish Widows that wed received  the complaint. 
It doesnt appear Scottish Widows received the evidence  of dependency it sought from 
Mrs S or L. It wrote  to L (and Ms T) again in March 2018 confirming its decision to distribute 
the death benefits in three equal  shares  to Mr F1, Mr F2 and Ms T. It told the ombudsman 
service it reached this decision in part based on information it had from another party which  
is isnt authorised to disclose. The payments were  apparently made on 25 May 2018.
L told us that Scottish Widows wrongfully  reneged  on its October  2017  promises;  refused to 
provide any information to confirm how such an arbitrary decision  was reached; and acted 
contrary to Jessop -v- Jessop [1992]  1 FLR 591, the principle of Estoppel, and the Contract 
Rights of Third Parties Act 1999. He wanted the October 2017  decision reinstated.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She took the view that Scottish  Widows  
exercised legitimate discretion when  paying  out the death benefits of the plans.  Given that, 
as noted above, we didnt  have all of the evidence  Scottish Widows  had considered, that 
view seems to have  been reached as much because Scottish Widows had given Mrs S an 
opportunity to substantiate  her own claim  which it appeared  she had not taken.
However in response  to the adjudicators view, in June 2018 L provided  evidence that he 
considered shows  that Mrs S was financially dependent  on the late Mr F. Although  hes 
since said this evidence  was also provided directly to Scottish  Widows,  Ive noted above  that 
Scottish Widows  doesnt appear  to have received it. As hes also questioned how much of 
Ref: DRN69860487this evidence was passed on to Scottish Widows by the ombudsman  service, Ill list here 
what evidence we received at that time:
1.Mortgage statements  for the year to January 2017, addressed to Mr F at the flat at 
which Mrs S resided (an interest-only mortgage  of about  £174,000).
2.Letter dated 14 May 2018 from Mrs Ss doctor.
3.Child Maintenance Service letters dated 30 October and 8 November 2013 
confirming Mr F was responsible for paying child maintenance  (although it appears 
he chose to pay more  than the amounts in these letters).
4.Mrs Ss redacted bank  statements showing  receipt of maintenance from Mr F from 
August 2014 to December 2016.
5.HM Courts & Tribunals Services  acknowledgement  dated  13 July 2017  of Mrs S, 
Mr F1 and Mr F2s application  for a grant of representation (including the application 
form). I note that Mr Fs main  asset at the time of his death was the abovementioned 
flat worth about £491,000, but subject  to the above mortgage.
6.Mr Fs bank statements showing expenses (such  as utilities) and gifts paid for Mrs S, 
Mr F1 and Mr F2 from December 2012  to January 2014.
He said contrary to Scottish Widows assertions  stated in its decision  that divorce 
proceedings were  underway, Mrs S and the late Mr F ultimately decided not to divorce; 
despite it being plainly possible for this to be done without the need for Mrs Ss agreement or 
consent after five years of physical separation.
He also set out why he believed Scottish Widows had acted beyond its lawful discretion. He 
referenced a number  of legal arguments, including the right to fair disclosure of evidence  in 
the interests of natural justice.  L also referred to ICOBS rule 8.1.1 on the settlement of 
claims. In terms of the way the adjudicator reached  her findings, L said:
-She had failed to consider the other  legal principles and cases  cited  above.
-(Whether or not this evidence was disclosable to the other parties)  there was no 
indication shed  considered the evidence Scottish Widows said it had of Ms Ts 
dependence on the late Mr F.
-There was no indication that shed confirmed Scottish Widows had discretion to 
make the payment  of death benefits.
A new adjudicator  took over the complaint in July 2018. He sent Scottish Widows items 1-6 
above and asked Scottish Widows  if it stood by its decision. Scottish Widows responded 
asking if the regular monthly receipts from Mr F on Mrs Ss bank statements of £1,460.89 
were child maintenance  payments. Yet at the same time it said that bank statements from a 
number of years prior to [Mr Fs] death werent  relevant due to their age. We passed this 
response on to L.
Mrs S confirmed that whilst these exceeded the amounts assessed by the Child 
Maintenance Service, the Child  Support Agency ("CSA"), started charging £25 monthly for 
its interventions in the collection of the payments, but they also gave the option to parents of 
being able to save the said sum if it was so agreed  between them  (the parents), which  is 
why my husbandand  I, agreed that the deposits should be made  without the CSA's  
intervention.
Scottish Widows  took the view that the evidence Mrs S had provided only showed that the 
late Mr F was making regular child support payments, and only demonstrated that his 
Ref: DRN69860488children were dependent on him. It did not, in Scottish Widows view, confirm  that Mrs S was 
financially dependent on Mr F. This therefore was Scottish Widows fourth decision. It said:
We have reviewed our initial decision with fresh eyes and those who were  not involved  in 
the initial claim, and all are comfortable with the decision to pay to the partner and children of 
the deceased only based on the evidence we've  seen  previously  and the new evidence 
provided.
Scottish Widows  referred to a Central Family Court Financial Order  it had obtained, 
amended 1 August 2014 between Mr F and Mrs S. This was said to be in full and final 
satisfaction of all claims including income, capital, each others  pensions,  their estates on 
death and all other claims of any nature which one may have  against  the other as a result of 
their marriage/civil partnership howsoever  arising  The main provisions were  that:
-Mrs S was solely responsible for paying the mortgage and other  bills, rates  and 
utilities on the family home  and where  possible to have Mr Fs name removed from 
the mortgage.
-Mr F was solely responsible for another loan secured against the family home  and 
existing maintenance work on the home.
-Mr F was to transfer his beneficial  interest  in the family home  to Mrs S before decree 
absolute was granted, and Mrs S was to make best efforts  to sell the home (subject 
to other  conditions that allowed  her to remain in it until at least July 2018).
-Mr F was to pay maintenance  to Mrs S at £11,100pa  but this would end on his death  
or Mrs Ss remarriage or at the latest by January 2019.
-Mr F was to pay further maintenance of £10,800pa until Mr F1 finished full-time 
secondary education, or reached  age 18 (if later).
-Provision was made for a Pension Sharing Order (PSO) to be levied against Mr Fs 
pension (but I understand Scottish  Widows  doesnt have a record of this proceeding; 
it would  have been Mrs Ss responsibility to implement the PSO if one was agreed 
and she so wished).
Scottish Widows  added:
Under Clause  20 [of the Financial Order] the maintenance was due to stop on death so we 
think it is reasonable we do not consider these payments when settling the benefits. If there 
was an intention for the estate or a death benefit to be settled we would expect that to be set 
out in the agreement. The payment was also time limited  which  shows that the maintenance 
payment relates  not only to the spouse  but ongoing care of children  who were near 
adulthood. The children were both considered as potential beneficiaries and received 2/3rds  
of the overall benefit between them.
There was a remedy under Clause 22 - for [Mrs S] to make  a claim in court for the PSO 
Iisted in the settlement to be made after [Mr Fs] death if it had not taken effect by then.
L disagreed with Scottish Widows fourth  decision. He said Mrs Ss evidence showed  
dependence on the late Mr F for the mortgage, food and utilities.  He suggested  that Mrs S 
was prevented from providing this evidence earlier because of Scottish Widows refusal to 
disclose the evidence it had relied  on in its original decision (a Data Subject Access  Request 
(DSAR) was made to Scottish Widows  in December 2017).
Scottish Widows  maintained that the payments Mrs S had evidenced  were  for the benefit of 
Mr F1 and Mr F2 in the majority  and reminded L that third-party evidence it relied on was 
Ref: DRN69860489not disclosable under a DSAR. Our decision to favour one third of the policy  values to each 
of [Mr Fs] sons reflects their age and the on-going  financial  dependency  on their father and 
we believe this best reflects [Mr Fs] wishes at his time of death.
The adjudicator still thought Scottish  Widows had exercised its discretion legitimately and 
didnt think Mrs Ss complaint could  be resolved  without referral to an ombudsman. He 
refererred to Scottish Widows Policy Provisions (PP 2015) which  has generated comments 
from L in response. As this is only one of two documents that govern how Mrs Ss policy 
operates, Im also attaching the Trust Deed and Rules  for the policy, which  Ill be referring to 
in this provisional decision.
L continued to disagree, in summary  for the following reasons:
-Scottish Widows  couldnt rely on the policy provisions because Mr F never  completed  
an EoW form, and the explanations  contained  in those  provisions  say that they ...do 
not form part of the contract between you and us. They are included  only to help you 
understand the policy.
-Clause 10.1 of those conditions is contractually  binding and states, The lump sum 
will be applied  by the Scheme Administrator to provide benefits (including  an annuity 
payable to your surviving spouse and/or dependant if you have so chosen)  in 
accordance with the Rules.
-Even if Scottish Widows had a wider  discretion than indicated,  it ought  to have drawn 
that prominently to the late Mr Fs attention, following  Lord Dennings well-known 
judgment in Thornton v Shoe Lane Parking Ltd [1971] 2 Q.B. 163.
-The Financial Order  was only a draft which was never agreed,  signed or finalised. If 
the late Mr F had truly intended  to end Mrs Ss financial  provision in 2019 or at all, he 
would and/or could have  done so without Mrs Ss signing, consent  or approval.
-Scottish Widows  couldnt have it both ways,  as if the Financial Order  was effective 
then so was Clause 22 regarding the PSO.
-His client had been misled both in terms of the outcome  and in terms of £100 
compensation that she still has not received. She incurred additional costs in being 
represented as a result of Scottish Widows change  in position.
-Mrs S had in fact submitted her evidence  of dependency directly to Scottish  Widows,  
and strongly maintained that she remains entirely  dependent  on Mr Fs estate for her 
survival.
As agreement was not reached the matter was referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. At this point  Scottish Widows informed us that the same  complaint had been 
referred to the Pensions Ombudsman.  My understanding  is that the Pensions Ombudsman  
informed L that it would not get involved in a dispute  on which  the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has already  given a view.
In March 2020 L again  provided additional  evidence:
-Correspondence about the mortgage  addressed to Mr Fs personal representatives in 
April 2018, revealing that the mortgage  was in arrears by £5,000  (around  14 months 
payments, which would go back to Mr Fs death  in January 2017). 
-Unredacted copies of Mrs Ss bank statements from September  2016 to February  
2017, which I note show that Mrs S was in receipt of DWP  DLA  and DWP  EESA  
these are likely references to Disability Living Allowance and Enhanced Employment 
& Support Allowance and werent  mentioned to Scottish Widows or this service 
previously.
-Copy of the entry  for Mr F in the Probate Registry dated  June 2018.
Ref: DRN698604810-Two decisions  made by the Pensions  Ombudsman in November 2019 regarding  
other pension providers discretionary decisions over death  benefits. 
This latest  evidence wasnt shared with Scottish Widows when we first received it. But in 
light of concerns raised by L that we havent shared all of his clients  evidence,  Im attaching 
the above together with Ls most  recent submissions from March 2020  to the copy Scottish 
Widows is receiving of this provisional decision.  That means Scottish  Widows has received 
all the evidence Mrs S has submitted to us to date.  I would  ask both parties  to note my 
comments which follow later in this provisional decision on how I consider the provision of 
evidence should  be handled going  forwards.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As this has become a complex claim Ive 
split up my reasoning  under the headings below.
Does Scottish Widows  have  discretion  to decide who receives the death benefits?
L now has, with this provisional decision, a copy of the pension plans Trust Deed and Rules. 
Where the policy  provisions mention the Rules, this is where they are referring. In my view 
and as noted by L, the policy provisions give further  explanation of how the benefits  might be 
paid, but need to be read as a whole with the rules.
Under section 8, Member  dies before benefit starts,  the rules make  clear that Scottish  
Widows has discretion to pay benefits to a dependant, nominee, or any other persons in rule 
8.10.
I appreciate L is concerned that Scottish Widows initially  suggested  Mr F had nominated  
someone to receive  the death  benefits  by completing an EoW form, and now requires a copy 
of that form. But I think its clear that Scottish Widows said this in error. Most  often these  
forms have been  completed and its not unusual for standard wording in a death claim to 
state that the provider will consider who was nominated  on the form. But the policyholder 
isnt obliged to make a nomination and I cant require Scottish  Widows  to provide a 
completed form which I have no reason to doubt it says doesnt exist.
Where there is no nomination, the Rules make  clear that Scottish  Widows  may direct that 
the fund should be applied to or for the benefit  of one or more individuals  that it nominates 
as a nominee. And rule 8.10 details that the classes  of person that qualify include the 
members surviving spouse  and (separately)  dependants.
As to whether  this discretion was made clear to Mr F at the time he applied for the policy,  
strictly the complaint  Im considering here is from Mrs S (and Mr F1 and Mr F2) as 
beneficiaries or potential  beneficiaries of Mr Fs pension. So the manner in which  the policy  
was sold to Mr F originally doesnt form part of this complaint. But I would ask L to bear in 
mind that pension plans will almost all contain this wide discretion over death benefits,  in 
order to avoid the possibility of inheritance tax applying. 
So it would typically be difficult to say this is a significant or onerous term such  that it should  
be highlighted as per Thornton v Shoe Lane  Parking Ltd. It would also be difficult to see how 
Mr F could  have taken out the pension plan (or one similar to it) without agreeing  that the 
provider had this wide discretion.
Ref: DRN698604811What did Scottish Widows  do wrong in assessing  Mrs Ss original claim?
At the point this complaint  was referred  to the ombudsman service, Scottish Widows had 
admitted that it failed  to give Mrs S the opportunity to present evidence  on the strength of her 
claim, when  it had (I assume)  received evidence from other  parties such  as Ms T, before it 
made its first decision in July 2017.  
Scottish Widows  also compounded matters by then significantly altering that decision in 
favour of making a payment  to Mr Fs estate, as soon as L challenged it. But then reinstating 
its original decision (subject  to possible revision if Mrs S provided further evidence). This 
raised a number of further questions from L:
-Is Scottish Widows  estopped from revising  its decision? In my view, estoppel  doesnt 
apply here any more than it did when Scottish  Widows initially  made a decision that 
wasnt in Mrs Ss favour. Scottish Widows was entitled to amend its decision,  if it had 
good reason to do so (which I appreciate is another one of Ls questions).
Reference has also been made to ICOBS requiring the prompt  settlement of claims. 
Whilst this is technically  a pension  rather than a pure insurance contract, to the 
extent which ICOBS  might apply I dont think it means what  L suggests. No insurer is 
prevented from changing  its mind  on the payment of a claim. It does of course face 
consequences (including complaints) if expectations have been raised, but thats 
different to a requirement for it to settle  a claim it no longer considers it should  settle.
-Did Scottish  Widows provide justification  for its decision? I consider there is always  
going to be a difficulty here in Mrs S being satisfied that Scottish  Widows  has 
weighed up all the evidence, because Scottish  Widows  isnt obliged to share  with her 
the evidence it received  from Ms T. As L found  out, a DSAR doesnt assist  Mrs S in 
this regard because  she wouldnt be entitled to obtain someone elses  personal  data 
 Ms Ts.
That being  said,  Scottish Widows would need  to justify to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service that it exercised  its discretion appropriately by including all the relevant 
factors and not including  irrelevant factors. So I think L took a reasonable course  of 
action in referring Mrs Ss complaint to us, so that if necessary we could ask to see 
all of the evidence  Scottish Widows considered. (I should however say for 
completeness that if this service  obtained any information relating to Ms T we also 
wouldnt be able to share it with Mrs S.)
It is in any event also understandable that Mrs S referred her dispute to us in view of the 
upset caused  by Scottish Widows original  mistake,  twice changing its mind and its 
somewhat low offer of £100 as compensation for this. Ill return to what level of 
compensation I consider would be appropriate  for these errors  at the end of this decision.
What should have happened when  Mrs S referred the complaint to our service?
It would certainly have been helpful if L had provided all of Mrs Ss evidence of financial 
dependency which weve received in piecemeal fashion, directly  to Scottish Widows in 
accordance with its request, so that it could reconsider the claim. Had he done so then 
Scottish Widows  would have been in a position to consider  the evidence   including even 
the evidence advanced in March 2020 (other than the recent Pensions Ombudsman 
decisions)  before it actually paid out on the claim.
Ref: DRN698604812On the matter of the Pensions Ombudsman, had we known what we now know  that two 
parallel complaints against other  providers were  made to the Pensions Ombudsman  we 
would have sought Mrs Ss consent to refer this complaint to them  under our Memorandum 
of Understanding, so that related complaints  could be looked at together. Its unclear to me 
why L referred the same complaint against Scottish  Widows to both schemes, but as we only 
became aware  of this after the adjudicator had issued her initial  view, and the Pensions 
Ombudsman sought to close its file, weve continued to consider  this complaint.
As Ive said above,  I understand  why Mrs S was seeking an ombudsmans  decision on her 
situation. However I dont  agree with Ls explanation  for why she wasnt  prepared  to provide 
the evidence Scottish  Widows had asked for, which is essentially  that Scottish Widows was 
refusing to share the evidence it received from third parties. The discretionary decision was 
Scottish Widows   not Mrs Ss or Ls  to make and it was under no obligation to share third 
party evidence with them.  Scottish  Widows had two years to pay any lump sums directly  to 
individuals, so as it couldnt keep the claim open  indefinitely it was inevitable  that it would 
likely maintain its decision and settle it if Mrs S didnt respond. In my view it was in her 
interests to provide  this evidence directly to Scottish  Widows, even though  some  confusion 
has likely  been caused by being in a complaints process.
Did Mrs S provide her evidence  to Scottish Widows?
L suggests at one point  that she did, but in my view this isnt consistent  with the reasons 
given for not providing it  and Ls later questioning of whether the Financial Ombudsman 
Service was passing  the information across to Scottish Widows (which we have now done). 
That suggests L and Mrs S were  relying on our service to communicate  the information  to 
Scottish Widows. 
To be clear, the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt an extension  of Scottish Widows claims 
handling function. If Mrs S has evidence she wants Scottish  Widows  to consider, she or L 
should provide  that directly to Scottish  Widows. If we receive information we think Scottish 
Widows ought to see we will endeavour to pass that on, but we cant  assess whether that 
information should make  a difference to Mrs Ss claim because that decision is not ours to 
make. The discretion rests with Scottish  Widows as trustees of the late Mr Fs pension. 
At one point  during our investigation the culmination of evidence  wed forwarded  on 
prompted Scottish Widows to reassess Mrs Ss claim and give a new decision.  That is what  I 
would have required Scottish Widows to do in any event, had I been making a decision on 
the case at that point   because it was clear  a significant amount of further evidence had 
been provided and its not the role of this service to substitute Scottish Widows discretion for 
our own judgement. 
Mrs Ss ongoing dissatisfaction with the outcome is essentially a new complaint about the 
outcome of Scottish  Widows  fourth decision. However the second adjudicator went  on to 
express a similar  view on that outcome to the first adjudicator  that it was a legitimate 
exercise of Scottish  Widows discretion. So Ill consider the comments L has made  in 
response to both of the adjudicators views  as part of this decision. 
Has Scottish Widows  adequately justified why Mrs Ss evidence  doesnt change  its decision?
I appreciate Scottish  Widows hasnt provided  this service with all the evidence it received 
from other parties when  assessing the claim. I would expect it to have been  willing  to provide 
Ref: DRN698604813that evidence  to us subject  to undertakings that it wouldnt be shared with Mrs S or her 
representative. But even  though we dont yet have that information (and may need  to see it 
as part of a new complaint should  Mrs Ss claim for death benefits remain  unresolved), I 
have significant  concerns  about the explanations  Scottish Widows has provided around its 
fourth September 2018 decision and how it has considered Mrs Ss evidence.
My role is not to replace  Scottish Widows discretion  with how I might consider  the death  
benefits should be paid. But the concerns  I highlight  below  are sufficient for me to propose 
that Scottish  Widows should undertake a fifth reassessment of the claim. I say this because:
-Scottish Widows  relied on the fact that divorce  proceedings  were underway, but 
hasnt shown it considered the fact that a decree absolute wasnt sought between the 
decree nisi in March 2014 and Mr Fs death in January 2017.  Normally a decree 
absolute would be sought within 12 months, or the delay would need explaining to 
the court.
-It relied on a Financial Order from those  proceedings. From  what I can see L didnt 
provide this to Scottish Widows and now maintains this was a draft document  which 
was never agreed. In support of that contention it appears that Mr F continued to pay 
the mortgage on the marital home, rather than Mrs S as envisaged  in the agreement 
 a fact also noted in the Pensions Ombudsmans decisions  and so the clean 
break between  Mr F and Mrs Ss finances  achieved by a maintenance payment to 
Mrs S for only a set period (until  around 2019) doesnt appear to have been 
achieved. 
-Scottish Widows  said that bank statements from a number of years prior to [Mr Fs] 
death werent relevant due to their age. The bank statements ran right up to Mr Fs 
death.
-The latest evidence  Mrs S has provided  (which I appreciate Scottish Widows wont  
have seen before)  indicates the mortgage fell straight into arrears after Mr Fs death, 
and it appears possible Mrs Ss ability to earn is limited if she is in receipt  of disability 
and employment-related allowances as indicated on the bank statements.
-On further examination of the bank  statements  Scottish Widows  is now conceding 
that there was at the very least a degree of cross-subsidy  between  Mr F1, Mr F2 and 
Mrs S in the payments Mr F made for things  like rates and utilities on the flat in which 
they all lived. It now says the payments were for the benefit of Mr F1 and Mr F2 in 
the majority. Without further  explanation that doesnt reconcile  with a conclusion  that 
Mrs S wasnt  financially dependent on Mr F.
-Notwithstanding all of the above,  Scottish  Widows argument seems to be focused on 
the requirement for Mrs S to prove her financial dependence on Mr F at the time of 
his death, but she would  also qualify  for potential consideration under the policy  rules 
as his spouse as they werent divorced. I cant see that Scottish  Widows considered 
what weight it should place on this in its decision.
-Scottish Widows  appears to be saying in its reasoning that Mrs S has a sufficient 
remedy in that she can force  the PSO mentioned in the Financial Order to be 
implemented after Mr Fs death.  Putting aside that L says the Financial Order was 
never agreed, that seems  to be an admission on Scottish Widows part that Mrs S 
was potentially reliant on Mr Fs pension. But in any event, I fail to see how Scottish 
Widows can expect a PSO to be applied on the policy  after the death benefits have 
already been paid.  Or that, if Mr F and Mrs S decided for some  reason not to divorce, 
why Mrs S should  have  had the hindsight to implement  the PSO  before Mr Fs death 
at the early age of 54.
Ref: DRN698604814To be clear, Im not saying any of these  factors   or any further points  L has an opportunity  
to raise if it does so in response to this provisional  decision  must alter Scottish Widows 
decision. That is for Scottish  Widows  to decide.  But Im satisfied there  are sufficient grounds 
for it to reassess all the evidence and make a decision again on the claim.
What compensation  should be paid for the distress and inconvenience caused  by Scottish 
Widows handling of the claim to date, and any costs?
Scottish Widows  decided  to uphold the original  complaint in October 2017. It offered Mrs S 
£100 for the upset caused in not gathering evidence of her claim, but at that point it indicated 
it would  be looking to settle the claim to the late Mr Fs estate. L says that when Scottish  
Widows reversed that decision this caused  Mrs S further costs. 
Im not persuaded by this for two reasons. If anything,  Mrs S avoided  incurring costs during 
the short while she had a more favourable decision, as she was being saved the effort of 
providing further evidence to Scottish  Widows. I can see that the application for a grant  of 
representation had already happened  earlier in 2017, so I dont think Scottish Widows 
interim position caused her or L additional  work. 
There was clearly a loss of expectation when Scottish Widows changed its mind again, for 
which I can consider compensation for the upset caused. But in my view, the subsequent 
position Scottish Widows adopted was the more logical one. It was unlikely  to be able to 
justify to the other beneficiaries a complete reversal  of its discretionary decision, without 
supporting evidence from Mrs S as to the strength of her claim. Although providing this 
evidence (and indeed bringing the complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service) has 
caused Mrs S costs in engaging L, it is a matter for the complainant to decide if they wish to 
be represented.
The case-handlers on Mrs Ss complaint  havent given any undertakings that Mrs S can 
expect to receive an award for her costs even if shes successful in the complaint.  Its 
unusual for us to make  an award for costs where the complainant  wouldnt  need specialist 
assistance to tell us in laymans terms why they were unhappy  so that we could  then look 
into the complexities of the situation  ourselves. Were an alternative to the courts  and dont 
require cases to be presented to us as legal pleadings. 
When we acknowledged  Mrs Ss complaint we referred L to the Frequently Asked Questions 
on our website, which explain  this and make clear  that representatives fees may come out 
of any award we make. I appreciate English is not Mrs Ss first language but we have 
translation and interpretation services  available in order to provide a level playing field for 
consumers. So whilst  I appreciate this will be a disappointment,  Im not going to be making 
an award for Mrs Ss costs in this case.
The Pensions Ombudsman decisions L has sent us indicate that the claims for costs in 
those cases (which it also didnt award) were substantial. So as Mrs S may be incurring legal 
costs and the Financial  Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts, Id like to make 
her aware that it is at least in theory possible  those  costs might be considered  as part of any 
award a court might make. And if she accepts a decision from this service  that doesnt  award  
her legal costs incurred to date,  its unlikely shell be able to go to court  to recover those 
same costs.
Ref: DRN698604815Of course whether or not a court would uphold Mrs Ss complaint at all would be a matter for 
the court to decide. However  if Mrs S is intending going to court  instead  of accepting a final 
decision from this service,  she should  let us know in response to this provisional decision.
Much of the handling  of Mrs Ss claim from Scottish Widows point of view has taken place 
whilst the complaint has been with the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  and in an unusual  
fashion as I noted above   as Mrs S could also have dealt directly with Scottish  Widows in 
submitting her new evidence. That new evidence didnt form part of the complaint originally 
submitted to us. However as its become part of an ongoing complaint Ive provisionally 
found in this decision that Scottish Widows hasnt adequately justified how it reached its 
fourth discretionary decision  and should  review  the decision a fifth time. That doesnt 
necessarily mean the outcome of the claim is bound to change. 
I understand that pursuing this claim would always have  been upsetting  for Mrs S, but I can 
only fairly consider  the extent to which Scottish Widows caused unnecessary distress or 
inconvenience. So as we still dont know what ultimately the claim decision might be, I think 
its reasonable to take into account here the initial upset Scottish  Widows  caused in 
September and October 2017  when  it admitted  that it failed to seek evidence at the right 
time, and changed  its mind twice in quick succession (in my view unnecessarily). 
Scottish Widows  ultimately did reach  a reasonable position that it would be willing  to review  
its decision on the claim, subject to appropriate  evidence  some  of which its only receiving 
today. Taking all of this into account, I consider  an award of £350 would reflect the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused  by Scottish  Widows  earlier  actions.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and require  Scottish Widows  Limited  to review its 
discretionary decision on the payment of death benefits from the late Mr Fs policy  again.  
I also consider it to be fair and reasonable to regard this as Mrs Ss final opportunity  to 
disclose all remaining evidence she may wish to rely on in her claim  and for her to supply 
any further evidence  directly to Scottish Widows going forwards,  so that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service isnt further involved in the handling of the claim as opposed to any 
complaint.
I also intend to require Scottish  Widows  Limited  to pay Mrs S the sum of £350 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986048