K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) regarding  access to his online 
and mobile banking being suspended, and Barclays response to helping  him regain access. 
He wants a full explanation of why his account became suspended, and compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience. 
background 
Mr H has a number of accounts with Barclays.
In April 2019, he attempted  to make a transfer  from one account  for which  he had authority 
to another.  This transaction failed and Mr H had to call Barclays. The agent  he spoke to was 
able to complete  the transaction successfully. 
The next day, Mr H went to use his online and mobile banking, but found that it was not 
working. 
He contacted Barclays, who advised  him that his account was locked. He was advised that 
he would  need  to attend a branch with ID for his account to be unlocked. 
Mr H attended a branch  with ID, and was advised  that he needed to cancel his existing log in 
details and re-order new details. New log in details  were ordered for Mr H and his account  
was unlocked. 
Mr H made  a complaint.  He felt that his account had been locked due to something outside  
of his control and he wanted to know what that was. He was also upset that he had had to 
attend a branch, when he had other plans that day, and that by cancelling and reordering  his 
log in details, his account access was restricted for longer than was necessary. 
Mr H spoke with staff from Barclays, to try to find out what  had happened.  Barclays  was not 
able to identify  the reason initially and offered Mr H £125 compensation to reflect  his 
inconvenience and distress, and to acknowledge that he had received a poor customer 
service during one of his conversations. 
Mr H was not happy with this and contacted  us. He finds  it incredible  that Barclays were not 
able to identify  the reason for his account being locked immediately and he thinks  that it may 
be due to the transaction he made on the authorised alternative account the night before his 
accounts were locked. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and has set out her view to the parties.  
She considered that the evidence provided  by Barclays  shows  that the account  was locked 
because incorrect log in information was used multiple times. She acknowledged that 
Barclays could have  given  greater consideration to an account reset rather than cancelling 
and reordering  details. She therefore thought that Barclays were not at fault for the account 
being locked initially, but that Barclays not been  as helpful as they could have been once the 
account had been locked.  She felt that Barclays offer was reasonable and in line with other  
awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
Mr H did not accept this view so the complaint has been passed  for an ombudsman  
decision. 
Ref: DRN61449902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can understand Mr Hs frustration at being locked out of his account and having to 
attend the branch. He has set out that he was helping someone move  house that day so it 
was particularly inconvenient to have  to attend  a branch. 
I also understand his concern that the account  being locked was a consequence of his 
attempted transaction the previous night, as the timing appeared to connect  the two issues. 
I do, however,  have  to make my decision based  on the evidence available.  
The evidence provided by Barclays shows that incorrect log in information was entered a 
number of times on the day in question. Barclays has explained that this would cause the 
account to be locked, although it could  have been re-set, rather  than have  the account log in 
details cancelled and re-ordered. On the basis of the evidence  I accept  that the account was 
locked out due to incorrect details being  entered repeatedly. I do not consider that Barclays  
was at fault for this. 
Once, however,  Mr H had discovered  that the account was locked, and he contacted 
Barclays, I agree with the investigator that Barclays was not as helpful as it could have been. 
It appears that alternatives could have been offered,  which may not have required Mr H to 
attend a branch with ID and to re-order log in details,  which  delayed  his regaining full access  
to his mobile banking.  
I have also listened  to the available telephone  calls and agree that Barclays were not able to 
give helpful information to Mr H during all of these. 
As a result, I agree  with the investigators  view that Barclays provided a poor service  
following Mr Hs account being locked. 
Mr H has described the inconvenience  of attending  the branch, and on having his access to 
mobile banking  limited for a period. He has also said that he was not able to make some 
trades through his account on the day and he believes he suffered  a financial loss. 
I note, however, that Mr H was able to access his accounts on the same  day as he attended 
the branch so the inconvenience was thankfully short  lived.  
I do not agree that Barclays caused Mr H a financial loss, as the evidence  shows  that the 
account was locked out due to log in error, rather than an error  by Barclays.  
I think that Barclays offer of £125 compensation is appropriate for the duration and level of 
inconvenience Mr H suffered, and is in line with awards we would make in similar 
circumstances. Consequently, I agree with the investigators view that the offer is 
reasonable, and I do not ask Barclays to do anything further. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr H but I hope it clearly  explains my 
reasons. 
Ref: DRN61449903my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint, but think  that Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC has made a reasonable offer of resolution. I do not ask Barclays  Bank UK PLC to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6144990