K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs unhappy that he stopped receiving  paper statements from HSBC  UK Bank Plc in 
August 2018.  He says this was an error and he mightve missed any suspicious  transactions. 
Hes also spent a significant amount  of time dealing  with the matter.  He wants  £150 
compensation.
background
HSBC said in its final response that Mr H was registered for its mobile banking app in April 
2018. It introduced  a facility where  customers could  view their statements on the app and all 
users were  switched to online statements. There was a message on the app to advise Mr H 
of this. But its now sent him paper  copies  of the statements and changed his preference 
back to paper. It apologised for any inconvenience caused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
He understood  Mr Hs concerns that he wasnt asked to opt or switch to paperless 
statements. But HSBC says when  he registered for mobile banking in April 2018 he 
wouldve been notified of this.
Although HSBC couldve done  more  to make Mr H aware that he would no longer 
receive paper statements he hasnt lost out as a result. Theres  no evidence of any 
disputed transactions  when  he wasnt receiving  paper statements and he didnt 
require them for any other purpose like applying for credit.
HSBC has acted  fairly by providing  Mr H with paper statements and its updated  his 
preference. And he cant ask it to do anything more.
Mr H remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says HSBC  has given 
him different information to us. He has lost out by having top spend time sorting things out.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has said that in April 2018 Mr H registered for internet banking which led to paperless 
online statements. Its also said that due to regulatory changes  in July 2018 customers  
wouldve been notified on the banking app of changes in how they could  view their 
statements. 
But whenever this information was communicated  the simple fact is HSBC told its 
customers, including Mr H, of how statements would be available.
Mr H says he mightve missed any suspicious transactions as a result  of not receiving paper 
statements. But theres no evidence  that this was the case or that hes lost out financially  as 
a result.  And I think HSBC has acted fairly by sending him paper copies of some  statements 
and changing  his preference back to paper.
Mr H would like £150 compensation for the time he lost dealing with matters. But all 
consumers spend  some time and experience some additional inconvenience  in dealing with 
Ref: DRN62044252things like this, a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend 
theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably  depart  from this 
approach in this case.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Hs strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6204425