K820x#14complaint
Ms L says Leeds Building Society (Leeds)  mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think  the MPPI was 
mis-sold. I also explained why Leeds would have to pay back  any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I asked everyone to send  me any 
further comments and information before I reached  a final decision.
Neither Ms L nor Leeds responded with anything  further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont think  the MPPI was mis-
sold.  so Leeds Building Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to  
Ms L.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Ms L any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69527202copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms L says Leeds Building Society  (Leeds)  mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  the sale of an MPPI policy. The policy was first taken  out in 1999 to protect  
Ms Ls original  mortgage  and was subsequently  amended  to protect  three further advances  on her 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls complaint. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
1999 sale
Leeds has told us the sale took place  during a meeting. Theres limited information  available from the 
time the MPPI  was sold to Ms L in 1999, which isnt unusual given the sale took place almost 20 
years ago. As a result,  Leeds hasnt been able to provide us with copies of Ms Ls actual paperwork 
from the time of sale.  So, Ive based my findings  on the information  I do have and what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened at the time of sale. 
Leeds has provided us with sample copies  of the paperwork it says it would have used when  selling 
Ms L the MPPI in 1999. Leeds says this represents what Ms L would have seen at the time of sale.  
Based on what Ive seen, including the sample documentation provided, I think  Leeds made Ms L 
aware that she had a choice about buying the MPPI,  and she chose to take it out. I say this because  
the sample documentation provided,  shows  that Ms L was given an option of selecting  whether  or not 
she wanted  the MPPI  to protect her mortgage repayments. 
Section 9 of the mortgage application form, which  Leeds says Ms L would have completed and 
signed, is headed Protecting Your Payments. This part of the application form asks customers to 
complete one of three sections:
Section A was for those  customers who wanted to take out the MPPI;  
Section B was for customers who already  had insurance in place to protect  their repayments;  
Section C was for those customers who didnt  want to take out the MPPI.
So taking everything into account,  I think its most likely Leeds made  it clear to Ms L that the MPPI 
was optional and I think she agreed to it.
Leeds says it recommended the MPPI to Ms L, and the policy seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and I cant  see that she 
would have been affected by any of things  the policy didnt cover  such  as pre-existing  medical 
conditions. 
Ref: DRN69527203Ms L has told us she didnt  need MPPI as she would have  received generous sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some savings  which she could 
have used to cover  her mortgage repayments. 
Ive thought about what Ms L has told us about her sick pay. She says she would have  been entitled 
to at least 12 months  sick pay from her employer  if she was too unwell  to work. 
While I dont  doubt Ms Ls employer did offer generous benefits, in my experience  full sick pay for 12 
months is unusual, particularly  for someone who had only been in their job for two years,  like Ms L. If 
shes able to provide information to support  what shes told us before the response date mentioned  
above, Id be happy to reconsider my findings in light of this information.
I appreciate that Ms L may have held some savings, but I dont think this means she didnt need the 
MPPI. A successful claim under her MPPI policy  would  have meant she could have used her savings 
to cover any other financial  commitments she may have had during what could  be a difficult time. 
Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment.  If repayments arent met borrowers 
stand to lose their home. The MPPI would have covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months for each claim if Ms L was unable  to work  because  of sickness or if she lost her job.
So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think the sick pay Ms L was likely to have  had and the 
savings she says she had would have meant that the policy wasnt suitable for her.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the MPPI  was unaffordable  for Ms L when she 
took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I think  Leeds  
recommendation was suitable. And I think Ms L could have found  the cover useful if she ever fell on 
hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy  was suitable for Ms L, Leeds also had to give her clear  enough  
information about the MPPI.  I think its possible  Leeds  didnt give her all the information  it should 
have. But, even if the information  wasnt  as clear  as it should have been, for the reasons  Ive already 
explained, I dont think better information about the MPPI would have stopped Ms L buying it.
January 2007, March  2007  and August  2007  amendments
Leeds has told us that Ms L applied for further borrowing  in January, March  and August 2007. At the 
time of each further advance,  Leeds  has provided information to show that changes were  made  to Ms 
Ls MPPI policy to take into account the additional borrowing.
For the reasons  I said above,  I think  Ms L wanted  this cover and would have found  it a useful thing to 
have. It follows that I think she would have wanted increased cover for the additional borrowing.  I also 
dont think Ms L wouldve  agreed to the changes made to her policy at each renewal, if she didnt 
want the MPPI.
Ive looked at whether any changes to Ms Ls circumstances would  mean that the MPPI was no 
longer right for her. Ms L has told us that in 2007 she was working  for a different employer, and would 
have received full pay at her employers discretion, if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us 
she had the equivalent of at least six months pay in savings, which she could have used to help with 
her mortgage  repayments.
Having thought about what Ms L has told us about her sick pay, Im not persuaded that this means  
the MPPI wasnt suitable for her. While  her employer  might have wanted to offer her full pay for any 
time she was off work due to illness, this couldnt  be guaranteed as circumstances might change 
which might  mean that her employer was no longer in a position to offer such  generous sick pay. 
Ref: DRN69527204Ive also thought  about  what Ms L has said about her savings.  For similar  reasons  Ive mentioned in 
my findings  on the 1999 sale, I dont  think the savings  Ms L said she had would have meant the MPPI 
wasnt suitable  for her. 
While its possible Leeds didnt  give Ms L all the information  it should have  about the MPPI  at each 
point at which  the policy was amended, for similar  reasons Ive said above, I dont think  any better  
information would have stopped  Ms L from buying the MPPI. 
It follows that I dont think the MPPI  was mis-sold.
Which means Leeds doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms L.
But Leeds will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Ms L because: 
Leeds  got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI premium)  - so 
it should  have told Ms L about that. Because Leeds didnt tell Ms L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Leeds  has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ms L has commented on the non-disclosure of commission by businesses. Ms L says there have 
been other court  cases in relation to non-disclosure  of commission where consumers have received 
everything back. So she thinks  Leeds  should refund all of the money paid for the MPPI.
One of the things I need  to take into account when deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ls complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account relevant regulators  
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Leeds has made  Ms L an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of commission it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Ms L wants  Leeds to do something 
different. 
I have looked at the particular circumstances of Ms L and her complaint to see if theres anything 
about her circumstances  that would  mean Leeds should do something different  if the remedies set 
out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Ms L. But there isnt anything 
about Ms Ls complaint or circumstances that suggest the redress offered by Leeds isnt fair or 
reasonable.
 
In this case I think Leeds  offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs to do
Leeds has to pay back to Ms L any commission  and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the 
MPPI premium. Leeds should also pay back  to Ms L any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Leeds should pay back to Ms L the extra she paid each month because the commission and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Leeds should  also pay Ms L 8%* simple interest 
on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms L can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
Ref: DRN69527205my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the MPPI policy  was mis-sold  so Leeds Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Ms L.
But Leeds Building  Society does have to pay back to Ms L any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6952720