K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Connells Limited mis-sold  him a mortgage.
background
Mr B had a mortgage already, and in 2006 he went to Connells for advice  on a re-mortgage.  
Connells recommended  he take out a Together  mortgage provided by Northern Rock  
which includes both a secured mortgage and an unsecured loan tied to it. Mr B borrowed 
around £80,000 on interest only terms on the mortgage, and around £25,000 on a 
repayment basis on the unsecured loan. As part of the re-mortgage  he consolidated a 
personal loan of around £14,000 and a credit card balance of around £2,000.
A Together mortgage  works on the basis that both elements  are over the same term and at 
the same  initial  interest rate, reverting  to Northern Rocks standard variable  rate (SVR). But if 
the borrower moves  the mortgage elsewhere, or takes another  product with Northern Rock 
rather than remain on the SVR, the unsecured loan interest  rate increases to SVR + 5%.
Mr B complains about the mortgage advice. He thinks  it was unsuitable for him because  
Connells didnt check full details of his finances,  didnt  discuss  alternatives with him and 
didnt discuss with him the implications of consolidating debt.
Our investigator didnt  uphold a complaint about  the main  mortgage  recommendation. But 
she didnt think consolidating the debt as part of the borrowing was suitable. Connells didnt 
agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This advice  was given  a long time ago  Connells has nevertheless  consented to us 
considering the complaint  and so the evidence  about what  happened is limited.  Mr B has 
said he doesnt recall  his finances  being  discussed, but theres  a relatively  comprehensive 
fact find that sets out his circumstances, so I think its likely they were. Given  the passage  of 
time, I place  more weight  on the documents completed at the time than later recollections of 
what happened.
The fact find shows that Mr B was employed, and in a stable job. He wasnt in financial 
difficulty. He had a personal loan and a credit  card, but no other personal debt and didnt  
seem to be struggling with the repayments. The fact find shows that he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford both the mortgage  and the debt payments.
The paperwork records  that Mr B was advised  to take a repayment mortgage and instead 
opted, against advice, to take an interest  only mortgage. Hes initialled that comment  on the 
form to confirm its accuracy, and so I think on balance thats what did happen. I dont 
therefore think it would be fair to uphold a complaint that Connells advised  him to take an 
interest only mortgage when it didnt. And I dont think, in his particular circumstances, than 
an interest only mortgage was so obviously  the wrong thing to do that Connells should have 
refused to follow his instructions.
Ref: DRN62078212However, theres no evidence that similar advice was given about debt consolidation. That 
does seem to have been something Connells recommended, and I havent  seen anything in 
the surviving paperwork to show that there  was a detailed discussion about the implications 
of it.
Connells makes the point now that consolidation  reduced Mr Bs outgoings by around  £300 
a month, and that seems to have been  correct. But that came at a price.  Given that this was 
a Together loan, I think the unsecured  debt was consolidated into the unsecured part of the 
product, so it wasnt secured over Mr Bs property as part of this process.
The price  is a purely financial one. A relatively small amount of short term personal debt was 
consolidated into a 35 year loan. While its likely the interest rate was lower  to start with, and 
its on that basis that Connells estimated a saving of £300  per month, thats  not the case  
forever.
Mr B took a five year fixed rate on the mortgage. For five years,  the unsecured  element  
would have been at the same rate. But after five years, the unsecured  loan reverted to the 
SVR. And if Mr B took a new interest rate on the main mortgage  with Northern Rock, or 
moved his mortgage  elsewhere, the interest rate would increase  by a further 5%. This 
means Mr B would have  been faced with the choice, after five years, of keeping  his main 
mortgage on the more expensive SVR,  or seeing the unsecured  loan become much  more 
expensive. I think its likely the £300 a month saving would be much  lower  or even wiped  
out  as a result, even  if the consolidated debt wouldnt have been paid off by then. 
The fact that Northern Rock later collapsed, so Mr B couldnt have taken a new product on 
the mortgage anyway, couldnt have been  known  at the time and so isnt relevant to whether 
a suitable recommendation was made.
At the time,  it was  or should  have  been   known  that Mr B would pay more in interest 
overall over a 35 year period. And while his payments would have been lower in the short  
term, that may not be the case after five years. I cant  see that any of these implications 
were explained  to him.
It doesnt seem to me that Mr B had a particular need to consolidate this debt.  He could 
afford to pay the new mortgage and the old debt payments. If he had been fully informed of 
the long term cost, I dont  think  its likely he would have gone ahead
To put things right, Connells should  as far as possible put Mr B back in the position he would  
have been had that happened.  Mr B will need to give it more information  about his later 
mortgage arrangements so that it can make the calculation Ive set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint, and direct 
Connells Limited to calculate:
The amount  it would have cost Mr B to repay the consolidated  debt had it not been 
consolidated, assuming  he continued  to make  the same monthly payments as set out 
in the fact find (A);
The amount  he has paid in interest  towards  the consolidated debt from 2006 to date 
of settlement (B), on the basis it was added to the unsecured  element  of the 
Together mortgage;
Ref: DRN62078213The amount  of the consolidated debt still outstanding (C).
Connells Limited should then pay Mr B the result of B + C - A
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207821