K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains his personal  pension  fund should have a higher value as 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  hasnt been paying the agreed annual  bonus.
background
Mr S has a Section 32 pension plan which in 1987 was transferred from his company 
scheme to London  Life (now Phoenix Life). It was a requirement under  the legislation at the 
time to provide  a guaranteed minimum pension  (GMP), meaning  a certain level of benefits at 
state pension  age was guaranteed. Mr Ss policy was invested  three  ways-  one element  was 
a with  profits fund,  which included an annual  bonus.
In 2003 London Life wrote to its policy holders to explain the outcome of a review  of its 
investment strategy  for the with-profits fund. Equity  (stocks and shares) performance  had 
been lower than expected  and remained volatile. So to protect against risk, some funds 
would be moved  out of equities. But the letter warned  lower  annual returns meant  future 
annual bonuses were  likely to be lower than paid historically and will be zero for many 
policies. Mr Ss fund was one of those.
In 2018 Phoenix  wrote  to Mr S about  his options, as he was approaching  his retirement date. 
This prompted him to ask some questions about  his fund,  and he was unhappy with 
Phoenixs responses. It said hed received an annual bonus every  year,  and his fund was 
invested five ways. When in fact the last bonus  was paid in 2002  and his fund was invested 
three ways  not five. Mr S felt the 2003  letter said the fund may receive a bonus  - it didnt say 
it definitely wouldnt, so he thought his fund should  be increased by about £40,000. And a 
Phoenix call handler suggested  Mr S may not even receive the GMP.  Phoenix  apologised 
for the wrong  information  and offered him £350.  But it refused to recalculate  his fund as if an 
annual bonus  had been paid every year. 
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator thought Phoenix  had done enough to put 
things right. Mr S understands Phoenix  isnt obliged  to pay a bonus.  But he still thought  2% a 
year was fair, based on Phoenixs statement in 2003  that it anticipated returns  of 4-6%. So 
its come  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so while I appreciate  this will 
be disappointing to Mr S Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain  why.
Mr S is partly  invested in with-profits  which means  any profits arising  are used to fund 
bonuses, after first providing for any guaranteed benefits.  This means  the bonus is 
discretionary, and is only payable on an annual basis if the fund managers are satisfied the 
fund can meet its obligations.  Mr Ss fund received a bonus of between  7.1% and 1.5% in 
the years  1986  to 2002, but this doesnt  mean a bonus every year is guaranteed,  as it 
depends on investment performance.  But in some cases  it may be possible for the insurer  
to pay a final or terminal bonus  at the end of the investment even if it hasnt been possible to 
pay any more annual  bonuses. That again  is at the insurers discretion.
The 2003  letter said in summary that due to concerns about equity performance and 
volatility, the fund would  be invested in safer  assets  such as gilts. It goes on to say future  
Ref: DRN60716312annual bonuses .. are likely  to be less than has historically been paid, and will be zero 
for many policies. So I agree it doesnt categorically  state Mr S wont  be paid an annual  
bonus, but I think it makes  clear  a zero bonus is most likely. 
Mr Ss policy  comes  with a GMP which means  the fund has to ensure it can meet  the 
obligation to provide a pension of that level, regardless of how the fund performs. And 
investment returns have been  significantly  lower  in recent years  than was anticipated in the 
1980s when Mr S started his pension. 
The 2003  letter says that the future average rate of return  on the assets  held by the fund will 
largely reflect the yield currently available on fixed interest investments. This is likely  to 
average around 4% to 6% before charges and taxation, and may vary from year to year. 
Mr S appears to have  interpreted this to mean the fund will achieve a return of 4-6%  on top 
of the performance  required  to meet  its obligations. So he thinks that element is available to 
cover the payment of bonuses. But I dont think thats right.  The letter  anticipated the fund 
would grow at 4% - 6%, but this is before charges and taxation,  which  will reduce growth. 
Phoenix is also likely to need to set aside some of the growth  the funds assets achieve each 
year so that it can meet guaranteed amounts it has to pay in future  such as GMPs  which  
its required by law to pay, even if there arent  enough funds in a policyholders plan to pay 
for  the  GMP. And the actual performance  of UK gilts has been much lower  than was 
anticipated in 2003. Ive looked at average  historic yields on UK gilts over that period. In 
2003 average yield was just over 4%, but it reduced  to just around  3% in 2008,  to around 2% 
in 2011 and since 2013 its been  just over 1%.
So if Phoenix considered in 2003 the fund would be unable to pay a bonus to most  policy  
holders on an anticipated  return of 4-6%, I think its even less likely on lower returns. The 
bonuses already added to the fund are protected. But I cant  fairly say Phoenix should  add 
an annual bonus  to Mr Ss fund for the years since 2003 as the funds performance cant 
sustain this. 
Ive seen correspondence from 2012 about the proposed  absorption of London Life into 
Phoenix Life. This mentions  that annual bonuses may be added  to [the fund] in future, and 
once added these  are guaranteed.  So I understand how Mr S may not have realised his 
fund no longer attracted annual bonuses. But I dont think this means Mr S can discount the 
contents of the 2003 letter  which explained  most policies  would  attract a zero bonus.
Phoenix did confuse Mr S by saying in a letter that hed been paid a bonus every year when 
no bonus was paid after 2002. And it made a mistake by saying his policy  was invested  five 
ways when its only three. But I think the £350  its offered in relation to the trouble and upset 
experienced by Mr S is fair, so I wont ask it to do anything else.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the redress offered by Phoenix  Life Assurance 
Limited is fair. So Phoenix should pay Mr S £350  if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN60716313Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6071631