K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains against Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) about  the number of withdrawals  he 
was able to make from his ISAs.
background
Mr E opened  two ISAs  with Barclays in January 2018 and April 2018 respectively. It was a 
term of the accounts  that only three  withdrawals  could be made  over the term of the ISA. Mr 
E made a series of withdrawals from each  account, taking the majority of funds out. Mr E 
says he opened  the accounts  in order to save and protect his money. Further he says 
Barclays were  aware of his personal  circumstances and steps should have been taken to 
stop him being  able to withdraw beyond the three withdrawals limit.
Barclays say Mr E was aware of a loophole  in their system with the withdrawal restriction,  
whereby online or mobile banking fund transfers would not register against  the account until 
the following  day. Mr E had previously been  advised  that no further refunds would be given. 
Barclays pointed a pattern  of similar past behaviour.
In February 2017,  Mr E opened an ISA and made  multiple withdrawals taking him over the 
three withdrawal limit. Barclays explained  that there was an error with their systems updating 
overnight, they apologised, refunded the withdrawals  and paid compensation for distress. 
Barclays also offered to discuss more suitable  accounts with Mr E. As Mr E had exceeded 
the withdrawal limit, he was then unable to make any further withdrawals  until the end of the 
ISA term. He closed the ISA in May 2017  before the maturity date.
In September  2017, Mr E opened another ISA and made multiple withdrawals over a 
weekend. He again complained that the system  allowed  this to happen. Barclays initially  
missed setting this up as a new complaint. They paid Mr E £220 in compensation for poor 
service in October and explained that no further refunds would be given.  As Mr E had 
exceeded the withdrawal limit, he was then unable to make any further  withdrawals until the 
end of the ISA term. He closed the ISA in December 2017 before the maturity date. 
Barclays therefore maintain that Mr E was fully aware how the ISA operated. They maintain 
that he purposely circumvented the policy of limited  withdrawals,  asked  for compensation 
and then shut the ISA, later opening  a new account and re-setting the limit of three  
withdrawals.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Mr E was aware of the limit of three 
withdrawals and knew about the loophole given his previous  complaints.  Initially she did not 
uphold the complaint. Then Mr E provided information to show  that he had explained why he 
had chosen an ISA with a withdrawal limit back in 2017. In light of this our investigator 
thought Barclays  should have done  more in 2018  as they knew  about Mr Es condition  and 
knew the accounts had not worked for his requirements in the past.  Our investigator didnt 
think Mr E should be refunded for the sums  hed spent  but did think it was fair and 
reasonable to award £200 for trouble and upset.
Barclays disagree with the view.  They  rely upon  Mr Es past pattern of behaviour to say it 
would not be fair and reasonable to compensate Mr E any further. 
Ref: DRN65328412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its helpful if I explain our role. We provide an informal dispute resolution  service and we 
have no regulatory  or disciplinary role. That means  we cant tell a business how to operate 
its systems and we cant punish a business. If we find that something  has gone wrong, we 
consider how to put things right, on a fair and reasonable basis.
Its not disputed  that there was a limit of three withdrawals over the term of the ISAs.  And I 
am satisfied  that Mr E was aware  of this limit.
Mr E said he had opened the ISAs in an attempt to save money and wanted to be able to 
limit the number of transfers he was able to make.  Its agreed that Mr E managed to make 
more than three withdrawals on each  ISA and he did so by making a series  of withdrawals in 
close succession before the system  had updated.  He said he did this due to a condition  he 
suffers from.
Barclays have explained that its a feature of the system that withdrawals are updated  
overnight, so if multiple withdrawals are made  in close succession  they wont  be recorded  
until the next working day. If more than three  withdrawals are made  within that time, they 
wont be blocked. Ive seen that Mr E was told about this in response to his previous 
complaints in 2017. Barclays say they didnt  know  about Mr Es problems until December 
2018. But Ive seen that Mr E explained  why hed selected a limited  withdrawal account 
when he emailed Barclays in September 2017. I think  there was enough information  there 
for Barclays to understand the nature of Mr Es condition.
Ive looked to see whether Mr E should  have been aware that he would encounter  the same 
problems in 2018. When Barclays wrote to Mr E in September 2017 they apologised and 
said they were working to improve their systems. In October 2017, Barclays  explained  there 
was a technical issue with online banking which allowed customers to withdraw more than 
three withdrawals but they went on to say that they were aware  of the problem and were  
currently working to fix the issue. They were  unable to confirm when the issue  would be 
fixed.
Mr E has said he was assured that the system was fixed by the time he took out the ISAs  in 
January and April 2018,  I havent seen anything to show that an assurance was made  but I 
do agree  that Barclays earlier correspondence  suggested that the problem would be fixed in 
the future.  Its now confirmed that no fix has been made.
As Ive explained were  not able to tell Barclays how to operate  its systems. Mr E has had 
the benefit of using  the funds that he withdrew so it isnt fair and reasonable to ask Barclays 
to refund them. And Ive taken into account  that Barclays had warned Mr E they wouldnt  be 
refunding him for any further withdrawals.
But I do think Barclays information  suggested that a fix would be found in the future and I do 
think Barclays were aware or should  have been  aware of Mr Es condition given his email  in 
September 2017 and his pattern of spending. Barclays  confusion about when information  
was shared and their misleading response about  this has also caused Mr E some upset.
This is a finely balanced matter, but I do think Barclays  could have done  more when Mr E 
opened the accounts to make things clear  about how the withdrawal limit worked, especially 
Ref: DRN65328413given Mr Es condition  and the previous  problems  hed had. On this occasion  I therefore  
consider that it would be appropriate to compensate Mr E for distress and inconvenience. I 
agree that £200 is a fair and reasonable award. However, Id like to be clear  that this 
decision does not set any precedent for any future like claims.
The loophole  remains  unfixed and I am satisfied that Mr E is now fully aware  of this. Going 
forward, it would be sensible and appropriate  for Mr E to choose an account that is more 
suitable for his needs.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint  in part. I direct  Barclays  Bank plc to pay 
Mr E £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6532841