K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained that the advice E J Glanville & Co (Investment Brokers) Limited gave 
her to transfer her previous pension to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension)  was 
inappropriate.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 April 2021. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons  why I wasnt  minded to uphold  it were set 
out in that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider. 
E J Glanville  & Co said that it had nothing  further to add. Ms B said that she didnt agree with 
my provisional findings. She said her main  complaint was about the inappropriate advice E J 
Glanville & Co had given  her to continue to pay into her pension when she had split up with 
her husband, thereby  entitling him to half her pension. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings in my provisional  decision not to uphold the complaint.
The concerns raised  by Ms B about E J Glanville & Cos advice to continue to make  
contributions to her pension was considered as a separate complaint. I havent considered 
that matter as part of this complaint. 
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision which  is attached, my final 
decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69252782Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Ms B has complained  that the advice E J Glanville & Co (Investment Brokers)  Limited gave her to 
transfer her previous pension to a SIPP (Self Invested  Personal Pension) was inappropriate.
background
One of our adjudicators  investigated Ms Bs complaint. He set out his understanding of the 
background as follows. 
Ms B had been a client  of EJ Glanville & Co since September 2010. Ms B had a SIPP which was 
invested in line with a medium risk strategy in mainstream investments. She also received ongoing 
reviews of her portfolio and contribution levels.
In May 2016  EJ Glanville & Co was notified by the pension provider (I will refer to as Provider  1) that it 
was intending to sell its pension business to another provider (Provider 2). EJ Glanville & Co was 
concerned about the service  and administration that would  be given by Provider  2, based on its own 
experiences of it. It reviewed alternative pension  providers and recommended  that Ms B transfer her 
pension (technically  called a switch) to a different provider  (Provider 3). Ms Bs existing investment 
strategy was to continue  she was to remain  invested  in the same funds following  the transfer.
Ms B transferred her pension to Provider  3 in November 2016.  EJ  Glanville charged Ms B 1% for the 
advice and maintained a 1% ongoing  advice fee. The value of the pension at the time was £87,012. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld. He thought that           EJ 
Glanville & Co had failed to demonstrate how Ms B would  have been impacted by a failure of service 
from the new provider. Although itd had challenges itself, the adjudicator thought  that Ms B would 
have had little need for interaction with it as she wasnt anywhere near her intended retirement date.  
Her engagement  would  largely be limited to receiving annual statements. The adjudicator noted that 
although EJ Glanville & Co had said the new SIPP  was £350  a year cheaper in terms of charges, it 
had cost Ms B £870 for the advice to transfer,  and this would take over two years to recover. 
He also noted that the actual amounts charged were higher than had been disclosed.  And the new 
SIPPs charges were reviewable, and could  increase over time. So the actual cost saving between the 
schemes could be eroded, particularly given the costs of the advice. In this context,  the adjudicator 
didnt think the savings justified the transfer. Overall, he didnt think  the advice was in Ms Bs best 
interests.
EJ Granville & Co didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. It said, in summary, that a SIPP had 
been originally recommended in 2010 as the most  suitable type of pension  at that time. Although Ms 
B hadnt been  impacted  by the change of her existing  pension provider,  its advice was based  on its 
own experience of dealing with it over a number of years. It listed a number of problems it had 
encountered since the change in 2016. 
EJ Granville & Co provided clarification it had obtained from SIPP Provider  3 about  some of the 
charges that had been incurred; including a £120 fee that was charged when Ms Bs new advisers 
transferred her away from the SIPP.  And a fee for £96 that the SIPP  provider had wrongly listed as an 
administration fee, rather than an ongoing fee.
It said the 1% fee it charged for the advice to transfer was a one-off fee that reflected its costs.  And 
Ms B had over 20 years  to retirement at the time of the transfer. So it was clear that, when comparing 
the original  SIPPs fees of £365  (in total £7,665 over 21 years) with the new pension of £145 (£3,045 
in total over 21 years),  Ms B would be much better off over that period.  
Ref: DRN69252783my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms B was already in a SIPP when  the providers changed in 2016;  shed had a SIPP since 2010.  The 
main driver behind EJ Granville & Cos recommendation to transfer was because  of its own 
experience of poor levels of service given by Provider 2.
On the one hand, I think Ms B could have been advised to wait and see what kind of service the new 
business actually  provided. As the adjudicator  explained, she would  only have had very limited  
interaction with the provider at that time, and the service may have turned out to meet her needs. Ms 
B would have saved the £870 she paid to EJ Granville  & Co for its advice  and work  on the matter. 
However, on the other, if the charges on the new SIPP were materially lower than the existing one, 
then a transfer could have been worthwhile; Ms B had a number of years  to retirement, so any 
savings going forward could be significant.
The adjudicator referred to SIPP Provider  3 applying  higher charges than had been disclosed to Ms 
B. However Provider 3 has confirmed that of the £240  charged in 2017, £96 referred to the ongoing 
adviser charge (which  also would have been applied  to the original SIPP). And of the £294 deducted 
in 2018, £120 was due to Ms B transferring  away from the SIPP  otherwise it wouldnt have been  
charged.  So the actual SIPP charges were  £144 and £174  in 2017 and 2018 respectively,  which is 
consistent with the £120 (+ VAT)  and £145 (+ VAT).  
Provider 3s annual  administration charge was subject to yearly increases.  However Ms Bs original 
SIPP was also subject to yearly increases. So I dont think there was a material difference between 
the two SIPPs in terms of exposure to increased charges; they could both increase over time.  The last 
annual charge on Ms Bs original pension was £450. And this would have increased to £485 if Ms B 
hadnt transferred to the new SIPP provider. So the administration charge for the new SIPP was 
significantly cheaper  than the old SIPP  - £341  in the first year.
However, further investigation has shown that there were some other  differences in the charging 
structure of the two schemes,  and also their associated fund management charges.  Given  Ms B was 
going to stay invested in the same funds, the differences were material to deciding whether  a transfer 
was worthwhile.
Ms Bs original scheme rebated some of its charges when her fund value was over £50,000. This 
amounted to a yearly  rebate  of 0.45%  of the fund value, applied each month (so one-twelfth  of 0.45% 
per month). So on the fund transferred, this would effectively  wipe out the saving of the new SIPPs 
lower administration charge.
However, the fund management charges on the contributions made  to the new SIPP  were  lower than 
Ms Bs original SIPP. The fund management  charges with Provider 2 were 1.475%  (as I understand 
the original  SIPP provider bought legacy units on their platform). However  the charges  on the 
monthly contributions  (of £1,000 at that time) with Provider 3 for the same funds, were 0.695%  (as 
they bought what were known  as R units). Charges on the funds transferred across remained at 
1.475%.
So in summary, by transferring, Ms B lost out on the 0.45% fund rebate applied  by Provider 2 on the 
whole fund. But she benefitted from a 0.78%  saving on the fund management charges (1.475% minus  
0.695.%) on new contributions. And made a saving on the administration charges.
What all this meant was that charges on the new SIPP would initially have been slightly  higher than 
the original  one. However, over time, after about five years, and as further contributions were made, 
the new SIPP  would have been cheaper charges wise overall. This included taking into account  the 
Ref: DRN69252784upfront charge of £840.  Given Ms B subsequently increased her contributions to £2,000 a month, this 
meant the charges  on Provider 3 were even more favourable given the lower 0.695% charge on a 
bigger fund built up from the higher levels  of contributions.
Ultimately, therefore, although it doesnt appear that E J Glanville  & Co took all this into account when 
recommending that Ms B transfer (a detailed  comparison of all the charges wasnt set out in its 
recommendation letter  dated 24 November 2016,  as it should have been to enable  Ms B to make an 
informed decision),  I dont think the advice to transfer was unreasonable in all the circumstances.
Although Ms B may have incurred the £870 upfront cost of the advice, given she still had a number of 
years to retirement, the cost saving achieved by transferring would have appeared  worthwhile. Over 
time, she would have  appeared likely  to be better off through  transferring. So taking all this into 
account, I dont think the advice to transfer was unsuitable.
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.  
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6925278