K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny provided  Mr B with 8 loans over a 1 year period  he took out the first loan in 
November 2015  and the last loan in November 2016. All the loans  were  due to run for 
24 weeks and they ranged in amount between  £100 and £700. All the loans were settled. 
Theres a table at the end of my decision setting out details of the loans.
Sunny initially told Mr B it didn't uphold his complaint. When we looked into Mr Bs complaint, 
Sunny reviewed its position and agreed  it shouldnt  have  lent Mr B loan 6 onwards. Sunny 
said that by then it was possible that Mr B may have started  to become reliant  on the credit 
and, as a result, the lending to him may not have  been sustainable. And so Sunny offered 
him a refund of interest and charges on loans 6 to 8 (with interest) to reflect this and also 
offered to amend information on Mr Bs credit file.
Our adjudicator didn't think  this went far enough to put things right for Mr B. She thought 
loans 5 through to 8 shouldnt have been lent to Mr B. 
Sunny disagreed so the complaint came  to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried  out proportionate  checks to make sure Mr B could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN67753342Sunny was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I think the checks Sunny told us about probably were  proportionate when Mr B asked to 
borrow the first four loans. I think its fair to say that Sunny had no reason during this period 
to think that it would be a mistake  just to rely on what  its checks showed and what  Mr B was 
telling Sunny about his financial circumstances. And I accept that the monthly  repayments  
Mr B was making looked affordable when  compared against what  Mr B had told Sunny about 
his monthly income  and expenditure.  
My feeling  is that by the time he was asking for loan 5, Sunny shouldve  been prompted to 
think more carefully about whether Mr Bs habit of taking out overlapping loans (or, at best, 
taking out new lending without any break in between loans) suggested that he needed to 
take out new loans because he couldnt really afford to pay existing borrowing in a way that 
was sustainable   in other  words, without taking  out more loans. And I think  Sunny ought to 
have carried out further checks to ensure it had a proper understanding  of Mr Bs finances 
by the time he was asking for loan 5.  
Sunny hasnt provided the results of its credit checks  nor has Mr B provided a copy of his 
credit file or his bank  statements. So I cant  say for sure what  Sunny mightve  seen on the 
credit checks it says it carried  out. And I havent  seen anything  in the information available  to 
me which shows that Sunny wouldve decided not to agree these loans  even if it had it done 
the further checks into Mr Bs financial circumstances that I think it ought  to have carried out. 
So I dont  think Ive seen  enough overall  to say that Sunny was wrong  to lend the first five 
loans to Mr B. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or 
otherwise harmful. Thats  when Sunny shouldve realised that it shouldnt  have  provided  any 
further loans.  
Like Sunny, I think by loan 6 Sunny  shouldve  realised that this application shouldve been  
declined and it shouldve  stopped providing  any further loans. 
Sunny wouldve seen that Mr B took out the first three loans within the space of just over a 
month  this meant  that within a month or so of taking out the first loan,  Mr B was making  
repayments on three loans. Then, just three days after repaying loan 1, Mr B took out loan 4 
 when he was still paying for loans 2 and 3. And he took out loan 5 around the same time 
as he repaid loan 4.
Ref: DRN67753343So Sunny shouldve seen that by then hed applied  for six loans in around ten months,  the 
amounts hed borrowed over the previous two loans had increased  and loan 6 would be the 
biggest single amount  hed borrowed.  I think, by now, it was apparent that Mr B had set up a 
pattern of taking out loans after repaying  earlier  ones.
I think Sunny  shouldve realised that there  wasnt any indication  that Mr Bs finances  had 
moved on from whatever  situation had required his previous loans. It was unlikely he was 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income  rather, it looked like he had an ongoing 
need for the money and he wasnt making  any inroads into the amount he owed the lender. 
And by then Mr B had paid a considerable amount of interest to Sunny to effectively service 
that debt over an extended period.
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk that Mr B wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for this loan  and any subsequent loans.
So I dont  think he should have been given loan 6  or any further loans after this, up to and 
including loan 8.
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing which  had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit  intended  
for short-term use over an extended  period  of time.  And the sheer  number of loans was likely 
to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So Im planning  on upholding  the complaint about  loans  6 through to 8 and telling Sunny it 
should take steps to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr B is happy with what I've said in my provisional  decision.
Sunny says it disagrees with the way I've reached my provisional decision  but the 
conclusion I've reached reflects the offer Sunny made after reviewing this complaint further  
and it offers  no more  information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.  
Having done so, as no further comments have been received in response  to my provisional 
decision that change  what I think about  this case,  I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN67753344putting things right
Sunny should:
 refund all interest  and charges that Mr B paid on loans 6 to 8
 pay interest  of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement*
 the number  of loans  taken from loan 6 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 6 to 8 should be removed from Mr Bs credit  file.
*HMRC requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. If Mr B asks Sunny for a certificate 
showing how much  tax it has taken  off, Sunny should provide this. 
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) to pay Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
LOAN TABLE
Loan Start Date Date  Repaid Amount  £ Approx. gap between loans
1 05/11/2015 16/04/2016 400
2 12/11/2015 28/04/2016 200 Overlap - >5mths
3 07/12/2015 26/05/2016 200 Overlap - >4mths
4 19/04/2016 16/09/2016 400 Overlap - >1mth
5 15/09/2016 17/12/2016 500 Overlap  possibly 1day
6 21/09/2016 17/12/2016 700 Overlap  around  3mths
7 14/10/2016 22/12/2016 400 Overlap >2mths
8 05/11/2016 09/12/2016 100 Overlap >1mth
Ref: DRN6775334