K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. She applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
Due to the length of time thats passed  since the sale took place, we dont have a copy  of the 
actual terms and conditions of this policy. But we have a copy of the terms and conditions  
that applied within two months of Mrs Ms policy start date. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mrs Ms mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £9.96 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as a clerical  assistant. She has told us she was entitled to 
at least six months full sick pay, death in service  cover and redundancy pay from her 
employer. Mrs M has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006.
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN64029992The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Halifax did not reply, but Mrs M and her 
representative have  provided their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mrs M disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN64029993I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ref: DRN64029994Halifax has provided copies of Mrs Ms mortgage application form and a separate  application 
form for the PPI. 
Looking at the mortgage application form, there  is a section  about PPI, followed by the 
question Do you want  to join the Scheme?.  The box next to this has been  completed with a 
Y, indicating that Mrs M wanted to apply for the policy. Mrs M has signed the form 
confirming that she agreed with the selections on it. 
In addition, there is a separate  application form for the PPI, which sets out key information  
about the PPI and Mrs M has also signed this form.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs M knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs M says Halifax didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. But Halifax says it did. Looking  at 
what happened when  Halifax sold Mrs M the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice and 
as this puts more  responsibility on Halifax I have considered the complaint as though  advice 
was given.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs M. The adviser  had information about  some  of Mrs Ms financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  But although on the PPI application  form, a brief 
questionnaire was completed  to try and establish whether Mrs M had a need for the policy  
by asking questions  about her wider  circumstances such as any health issues and existing  
means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because Halifax 
only asked some of the relevant questions, for example, theres no evidence Halifax asked 
Mrs M about  her employee  benefits  at the time of sale.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs M given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the likely eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  she 
says she would  have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M.
Ref: DRN64029995-The likely exclusions and limitations  didnt make  the policy unsuitable for Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
-While  there were  likely limits  to the cover  provided by the policy  (including:  the any 
similar gainful occupation condition, the requirement that Mrs M be disabled or 
unemployed for 30 days before  she could  make a claim  and the fact the policy would  
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mrs Ms circumstances, including her employers sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
likely 30-day  qualification period) and the limits to those provisions, which  
mean the policy could  play an important role after those provisions  were  
exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs M be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
-Mrs M says she wasnt aware  the policy would  not have covered her after she 
reached the age of 60 and that this made  it unsuitable for her. But looking  at the 
likely policy terms, Mrs M likely  could  have continued the policy  until age 65, by 
which point she had already cancelled her policy. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) because I can see Mrs M was 
made aware  of the cost and the monthly benefit  of the policy  on the PPI application  form she 
completed. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs M all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN64029996Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs M? To what extent  did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN64029997Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs M was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she likely actually bought were the following:
The policy likely excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs M got advice, 
treatment or counselling from a doctor  about in the 12 months before  the policy start 
date, if the condition recurred  within  24 months  of the start date of the policy;
 
The policy likely contained limitations on claims  relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy likely limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if 
Mrs M wasnt a permanent employee;
The likely requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be 
unable to do her own job or a similar job or any paid work which her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the likely  limitations and exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  out the policy.  
Ref: DRN64029998But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs M wouldve been caught by any of the likely significant exclusions  Mrs M didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs M 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs M, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which her experience, education  or 
training, reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what she 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ms 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs M that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs M would have  received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs M would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Ms sick pay or redundancy  money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN64029999Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs M, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about  the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
Ref: DRN640299910my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6402999