K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to Mr N. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  Barclays sold Mr N the 
policy when he applied  for the card in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr N disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr N has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain 
why:
I think Barclays made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this so many  years 
later. I have seen  a copy of the credit  card application which  Mr N signed. On it I can 
see you either marked a box to say you wanted  PPI or another  to say you didnt  
and there is a handwritten tick saying Mr N wanted PPI. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Ns individual  
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Mr N about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN61572072my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Mr N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  6 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6157207