K820x#14complaint
Ms Fs complaint against MoneyPlus Group  Limited  (MoneyPlus)  is in respect of a debt 
management plan (DMP)  she felt was very poorly  handled, causing  her serious financial 
loss. 
background
Ms F found herself in financial difficulties, and discussed her situation  with TCF Debt 
Solutions on 2 July 2010 - entering into a DMP with it. In July 2010, TCF Debt Solutions was 
acquired by Hamilton  Locke Limited, and all active customer accounts transferred. Then In 
May 2012, Hamilton Locke Limited acquired Chiltern  Debt  Management (trading as 
MoneyPlus) and formed MoneyPlus Group Limited. This is how MoneyPlus came to manage 
Ms Fs 2010 DMP
The crux of Ms Fs complaint is that MoneyPlus didnt make her aware of a letter  from one of 
her creditors  in April 2012,  proposing a repayment plan for her debt. And that if it had done,  
she says shed have  paid the debt back successfully,  or would be paying back significantly 
less per month. Instead, she said she ended up with a summary judgement against her for 
the whole  debt, plus interest  and court costs. She felt that MoneyPlus  had been  guilty of 
mismanagement and maladministration, and had breached  the terms of the code it was 
governed by to keep  her properly appraised of what was happening  with her DMP, so she 
could make informed  decisions.  She wanted  to be reimbursed for her loss, and to receive 
compensation. 
She complained to MoneyPlus, and it said that neither this particular  creditor, nor Ms F, had 
made it aware of a CCJ from 2009  that made  Ms F responsible for paying  back  the debt, and 
that it was this that allowed the later summary  judgement to be applied for. It said that had it 
been aware it might have  been able to do something  to help. 
It further explained that over the years  it had tried to contact Ms F to discuss matters, but 
that over a four-year  period  it didnt even have a contact number for her as she hadnt  
updated it when  he original number was changed. It also said that despite contacting the 
creditor numerous times, it only ever received the April 2012 letter. So it wasnt able to 
discuss or agree anything.
It also said that the April 2012 letter wasnt the full resolution Ms F said it was. It was only a 
temporary solution to her repaying her debt, and not a permanent  one. And that after twelve 
months a new agreement would have been required in any event. And that given now the 
rest of the DMP had gone, and the further changes  in Ms Fs circumstances over the years 
(she lost her job in 2014), it didnt think the debt would have been successfully repaid in any 
event.
Overall, MoneyPlus didnt think it was responsible for the situation Ms F now found  herself  in 
with this particular  creditor. It didnt agree it had mismanaged the DMP, and noted that in any 
event a DMP didnt  necessarily freeze interest  and charges,  and was an informal  agreement 
that needed the consent of both debtor  and creditor. And that it wasnt convinced  Ms F and 
this particular creditor would have found a successful way of resolving matters.
Ms F didnt agree, and brought her complaint  to our service.
Ref: DRN64304022Our Investigator  carefully assessed the evidence,  and concluded  that he couldnt say that 
MoneyPlus had mismanaged Ms Fs account  and was responsible  for the losses she 
claimed. So he couldnt uphold the complaint.
Ms F strongly  disagreed. She was extremely unhappy that it had been initially suggested  her 
complaint was that MoneyPlus was responsible for the fact the CCJ was used by her creditor 
to take further  action  against her. She said this was absolutely not the case. Rather, she was 
concerned that her DMP had been mismanaged  and mal-administrated, causing her loss as 
she was now paying significantly  more to the debt concerned per month than had been  
proposed by the creditor in April 2012, and had also had to pay interest and legal fees to 
avoid being made  bankrupt.  
Ultimately, she didnt  think her complaint had been properly understood or investigated. She 
contended that our investigator had made a number of legal findings, which  she sought to 
challenge by legal  argument.  She asked for an ombudsmans review. In particular, she 
asked for some further evidence, submitted in January 2020, to be considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator  that we cant  uphold  it. 
I know my decision will be very disappointing for Ms F, and Id like to explain why I think  its 
fair to both parties. 
Id like to begin  by saying Im conscious  that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail 
than the parties,  and in my own words.  Im not going to respond  to each individual  point 
made. And there have been many points, very clearly articulated by Ms F. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this, and it reflects  the informal nature of our service  as a free alternative to 
the courts. Unlike the courts, were not solely bound by the law  although we of course take 
it into account - and arent required to make legal findings. Should Ms F require that level of 
investigation and determination, shes of course free to pursue the legal route.  Our service 
provides an assessment of the evidence  to reach  a fair and reasonable outcome. And while 
not all parties will agree with these  outcomes,  my discretion as an ombudsman allows me to 
involve an element of opinion  in what I decide.  To this extent, the arguments Ms F seeks to 
make on the letter from her creditors solicitors in January 2020 (discussing the April 2012 
letter and repayment proposal) are legal arguments  that are not appropriate for this forum.  
This is why our Investigator hasnt  sought  MoneyPluss  response to them.
So if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored  it. I havent. Its 
because Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome overall.  And its very important to keep in mind the 
differences between  our service and the courts 
Ms F entered into her DMP in July 2010. But we know she had a CCJ made against her in 
2009, by the creditor referred  to in this complaint,  that she didnt make MoneyPlus,  or its 
predecessors, aware of. I know Ms F denies this, but Ive not seen sufficient  evidence to 
persuade me otherwise.  If she had done,  I think its likely that MoneyPlus might have been  in 
Ref: DRN64304023a position to take some further action  concerning  the CCJ, to prevent any further Orders 
being made against her. 
I cant say that MoneyPlus is wrong  for failing  to take action on something I cant  be certain it 
wasnt made aware of. Thats plainly unfair. 
In addition, even  if the agreement the creditor referred to in the April 2012  letter  had been 
made known  to Ms F (were aware  of the difficulties MoneyPlus had in communicating with 
her. I note she flatly denies this, but Im satisfied with the representations  MoneyPlus has 
made in this regard), we cant be certain  it would have run smoothly and succeeded in her 
debt being repaid satisfactorily and on time  or that it would have continued  over a longer 
time in the terms proposed. We know that she would have  required to ask for a variation to 
the agreement  at some point as her circumstances changed again when she lost her job in 
2014. And Im also satisfied that the suggestion  the letter made  was only temporary in 
nature, and subject  to regular review in the future. Further, its a matter  of fact that after 2014 
her contributions to the repayments  significantly decreased.
In short,  nobody can say with certainty  that even if the letter  had been shared with Ms F that 
it would  have avoided  that creditor going  back to court to enforce the 2009  CCJ. Ultimately, 
Ms F had a debt to repay, and Im satisfied she didnt furnish MoneyPlus  with the full 
information it needed to protect her interests to the fullest  extent it could.  Im also not 
convinced that Ms F seeing this letter would have  been the magic bullet she suggests  it 
would, and that it follows that everything would have gone smoothly; that her debt would 
have been repaid; and that the creditor wouldnt have needed to take any further action.
Im satisfied that MoneyPlus  did what it could with the information it had. I of course agree 
that it should have ensured Ms F saw a copy of the April 2012 letter, and that it failed in its 
duty by not doing so, but I dont think that its failing  to means  that its responsible for the 
situation Ms F has since found herself in. She owed a debt, and I think  she failed to ensure 
MoneyPlus knew everything it needed to on the DMP. I also think she failed to keep in 
contact, and in doing so she herself heavily contributed  to the fact that she, and MoneyPlus,  
werent able to keep  each  other  informed and fully up-to-date. I also think  other things 
happened in Ms Fs life that affected  her financial circumstances further, which  themselves 
would have had an effect on any agreement going  forward. 
There are too many  factors involved in whether Ms F could  have repaid this particular debt 
satisfactorily, that I cant safely say that had MoneyPlus acted differently all would have 
ended well, or that there would have been a different/better outcome. It wouldnt be fair for 
me to do so, as on balance I dont think its likely  it would have.
My role is to assess the evidence and reach  an outcome  thats fair to both parties.  Im not 
convinced that if MoneyPlus had done  anything differently that it would have changed  the 
outcome here. I also dont  think what it did amounts  to mismanagement or mal-
administration. I think it was a mistake that shouldnt have happened.  But crucially, I dont 
think it led to where  Ms F now finds herself.  Ive not seen sufficient evidence  to persuade me 
on balance that this was the case.
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the only fair outcome is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN64304024my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6430402