K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs H bought the policy in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in a meeting at a branch.
At the time,  Mrs H was employed  as a carer. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  her credit card should she be unable to 
work.  
Mrs H has told us she experienced post-natal depression in the 1990s. And in 2001 
experienced some back pain. Her representative  has told us that in 2004 she was no longer 
taking any medication  for these conditions and that they didnt affect her at the time of the 
sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment    subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Hs monthly credit card balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2005.
Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Hs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs H about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs H and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN62983602The information Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN62983603The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Hs 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs H sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN62983604did Mrs H know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the original credit card application form. I can see there  are two boxes 
that could be crossed  to accept or decline PPI. The box to accept has been  marked  with a 
cross and Mrs H has signed the application form immediately below this.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs H knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it provided  advice to Mrs H. As the sale took place in a face-to-face meeting I think 
this is likely.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs H. It seems  Mrs H cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Mrs 
Hs financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mrs H would  have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Mrs H had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs H given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Hs ability  to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time.  I say this as Mrs H would  not have received 
any sick pay from her employer  and had no other means to pay the credit card 
monthly repayments.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs H. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Hs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  
Ref: DRN62983605-
-Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs H has told us she was diagnosed 
with post-natal  depression in the 1990s. But she wasnt receiving any treatment for 
this in 2004. Similarly she wasnt receiving treatment for back pain which she had 
experienced in 2001. And Mrs H has told us that neither of these conditions  were 
affecting her in 2004. The policy contained an exclusion  for pre-existing medical 
conditions that Mrs H was aware of or had been  treated in the last 12 months.  
Looking at the details Mrs H has given us about her medical  history I dont think  the 
exclusion made the policy unsuitable for her. Ive not seen any evidence that the 
conditions were  chronic and therefore  not covered  by the policy.  And it doesnt look 
like Mrs H received  any treatment or medical advice in the 12 months  before the 
policy started. 
 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mrs Hs 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs H sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs H was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs H would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs H would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Mrs H would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs H 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mrs 
H might  have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs H, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs H. Im not persuaded that BoS gave Mrs H all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN62983606Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs H has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs H? To what extent did Mrs H suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs H would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs H says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN62983607return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her credit card payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs H ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that BoS didnt  make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs H didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  medical conditions,   and conditions 
that Mrs H knew about or ought  to have known  about before the start date of the 
policy or had seen a doctor about in the previous 12 months;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs H be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs H has told us of medical  conditions  she 
had in the past, these were not chronic  conditions and Mrs H has told us she was no longer 
receiving any treatment  for them. So although  the policy did not provide cover for pre-
existing conditions I dont  think  better  information  about this exclusion would have put Mrs H 
off agreeing to it. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think Mrs H had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN62983608I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs H 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs H, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs H had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs H was unable (through  disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs H would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs H would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN62983609Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs H compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs H thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mrs H, in the way it did, was insufficient  to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2004 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs H and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6298360