K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in 2005  at the same time as taking out a further advance  on 
their mortgage. They  applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for disability and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £646.51 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Fs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £43.00 a month. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a manager. He has told us he was entitled to 12 months 
or more  sick and redundancy pay and also had an income protection  insurance policy. Mr F 
has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2003 and Mr 
and Mrs F took out a further advance in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Fs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs F about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs F and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN67734032The information Mr and Mrs F received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Mr and Mrs F arranged  a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  a regulated mortgage 
contract. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN67734033GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN67734034-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs F, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs F 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs F 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs F completed a separate application form for the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs F knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs F agree that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs F. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Fs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  some  questions were asked 
on the application form to try and establish  whether Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy   
by asking questions  about their wider  circumstances such as any health issues and existing  
means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy  Mr F was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Fs finances  would be put under strain if he were not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to 
and Mrs Fs income.  The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs F manage the 
consequences if Mr F was unable to work.
Ref: DRN67734035-Although Mr and Mrs F says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen  
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Fs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions,  Mr 
and Mrs F has told us about being diagnosed  with asthma  as a child.  But this doesnt 
match up with what he told Lloyds at the time of sale. On the PPI application form he 
indicated that he had no medical conditions  of a persistent or ongoing nature. And 
although hes told us he had an income protection policy,  the PPI application showed 
that he told Lloyds  that he didnt have  any other  insurance covering accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So, even if he did have asthma or an income protection  
policy at the time of sale  I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong, as based  on the 
information he provided to Lloyds at the time it was fair to conclude  that the policy 
was suitable and to recommend it to him. There were also no additional restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr F be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Fs circumstances,  including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role in protecting any income or payment from 
his employer so that they could get by for much  longer if Mr F was still off 
work; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs 
Fs home and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs F be unable to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr F was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs F 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs F agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN67734036Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Fs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs F. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs F suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs F would  have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs F have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs F would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN67734037Mr and Mrs F say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs F applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs F would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs F would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Fs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and that Mr F knew about 
or ought to have  known about before the start date of the policy  unless he had been 
symptom free for 24 months  prior to claiming;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN67734038I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr F was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
convince me that Mr F wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he told 
Lloyds at the time of sale that he didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and he was 
in permanent employment. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs F had known they could only claim for disability if Mr F was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  reasonably  
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr F was unable  (through disability) to 
carry on their own occupation the chances that they would  be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs F that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month perdiod. This may have differed  from what  they expected and might have hoped  for  
but I consider  it likely Mr and Mrs F would still have  thought a policy  that paid up to 12 
monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to them and would  help them 
manage the consequences  should  Mr F be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce their 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home  was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Fs sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr F was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs F would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN67734039That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs F found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs F believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs F think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2005  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs F and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN677340310my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6773403