K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains Zenith Insurance Plc wont pay all her pet insurance claim/s  and about its 
poor service. My references to Zenith include its agents.
background
Ms H has had pet insurance with Zenith  for her cat for several years. The policy covers vet 
fees up to £3,500 a condition with a 12 month time limit from the first clinical signs of an 
illness.
In February 2018  Ms H claimed £858.53  for treatment her cat had for an ear infection.  A 
further claim for £72.10 was made in March 2018.
Zenith wouldnt pay. It said the policy was limited to 12 months of treatment for the ear and 
eye condition connected to an allergy  from 21 July 2016. The recent claim was outside the 
12 month time limit.
Ms H didnt accept her cats 2018  ear problem was related to the 2016  allergy  and contacted 
Zenith. She found  out her February claim hadnt  been received so she resubmitted.
In April 2018 a vet at Ms Hs vet practice wrote to Zenith. He said at the time a diagnosis 
hadnt been given which is why a possible  allergy  was recorded, but the new diagnosis  was 
ear infection.  Zenith continued to decline the claim as the vet hadnt confirmed the ear 
problem was unrelated to ongoing allergies or explained why the condition was unrelated.
On 4 June 2018 another  vet at the practice  wrote to Zenith. He explained why he thought the 
two issues were unrelated. Zenith then accepted the first claim for £858.53  on the basis that 
the treatment was for an isolated incident separate to the previous allergy.
Zenith didnt accept the second claim for £72.10  or a third claim that Ms H subsequently 
made in July 2018 for £249.10  for ear infection.  It said those claims were for an ear problem 
related to an ongoing allergy.
Ms H complained to us. She wants Zenith to pay the two outstanding claims, compensation 
for poor service and a refund of the year's  insurance  premium.
Our investigator thought that based on the vets June  2018 letter  Zenith should pay all three 
claims. He made no comment  about  Zeniths  service  or premium refund.
Zenith disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said it was clear from the cats 
vet history that she had persistent issues with her ears. That shows  she is predisposed or 
susceptible to ongoing ear problems whether those be ear infections and/or an allergy 
related to the 2016 allergy.
Ms H said her cat had no ear problems from September 2016 until October 2017 so she 
didnt have persistent  ear problems. She also referred to the policy definition of condition.  
She said Zenith couldnt prove her cat had a recurring/ongoing condition  and her vet said the 
cat hadnt.
Ref: DRN68521132my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why on the information I had I was intending to not 
uphold this complaint.  I said:
The policy covers vet fees:
up to the policy limit per condition for up to 12 months from the first clinical signs of an injury  
or illness 
The policy defines  condition as:
any clinical  sign of injury  or illness in your pet. Recurring and/or ongoing conditions  shall be 
considered as one loss. Such conditions being  defined as:
clinical manifestations  resulting  in the same  diagnosisto which your pet has an ongoing 
predisposition or susceptibility related  in any way to the original claim.
The key point is whether Zenith can show its more likely than not that Ms Hs cats ear 
problems from March  2018 were related to the allergy she had in 2016. Zenith needs  to 
show the relation  on the balance of probabilities, not beyond doubt.
Ive seen the vet notes  and the vets letters  to Zenith. The June 2018  letter  says the cats ear 
infection wasnt related  to the allergy.  However  as that vets letter  is a clarification of his 
colleague's April 2018 letter, which just related to the first claim, I think  the June 2018 is also 
only about the first claim. Thats for treatment from 18 October  2017  to 27 February 2018.
Looking at the vet notes  from March 2018  I think Zenith has reasonable concerns that the 
cat's ear problems from then on related  to an ongoing allergy.
On 16 March 2018 the vet notes say suspect allergic. The 29 March vet notes say the cat is 
scratching her ears and shaking her head  and she might have underlying hypersensitivity. 
I note Ms H says the 29 March notes were made by a locum  vet but I dont accept that 
means I ought to discount the evidence.  The cat was seen by a vet again in April for 
scratching her ears when  her ear canal  looked  clear with no inflammation and in June and 
July she was seen  by the vet for scratching her ears.
Theres no indication in the vet notes from March  2018 that the cat was suffering from an ear 
infection. As Ive said I dont think the vets June  2018 letter was referring to all three claims 
that Ms H made.
On the basis of current vet evidence Zenith can reasonably decline the second and third 
claims. Its already agreed to pay the first claim, which was fair.
Ms H may want to get further  evidence from the vet in response to my provisional decision. 
Given the vet notes contents the vet would need to explain  why the cats ear problems from 
March 2018 werent  due to her underlying allergy  or hypersensitivity.
I understand Ms H was frustrated by Zeniths service. But until it had the vets June 2018  
letter I dont think it needed  to pay any of the claims.  It looks as if Zenith did lose the first 
claim form which is annoying  but not something for which Id award compensation.
Ref: DRN68521133Theres no basis for me to say Zenith  needs  to refund the years insurance premium.  Its 
provided cover, subject  to the policy terms, and Ms H has had the benefit of a successful 
claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Zenith said it had no further  comments. Ms H made several points and Ill summarise the key 
ones:
Id referred to three claims but there was only one claim albeit submitted in three  
parts
She and her vet thought her cat's condition  wasnt reoccurring or related to the 2016 
allergy. Her vet's letter was in response to Zeniths decline of the second part of the 
claim and his opinion  was about  the first and second parts of the claim. Her vet also 
sent Zenith a follow up email,  that Id not mentioned,  which  resulted in Zenith  
accepting the first part of the claim as being for a separate  condition  
She thought  I was questioning the integrity  of her vet, who had greatly  helped  her 
cat. She said its unacceptable that the onus  was now on the vet to prove her case  
and she wouldnt ask the vet to provide further evidence
Zenith dealt with her claim  in a very unprofessional manner and its loss of the first 
claim form caused the resulting confusion 
She wasnt asking for compensation  for poor service or a refund of the 2017/2018  
policy premiums.  She meant  a possible refund  of premiums of the 2018/2019 policy 
which had automatically renewed. As she hadnt cancelled within the 14 days  she 
was contracted  to pay the year's premium so she was suggesting cancellation  
without having  to pay the premiums.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive summarised Ms Hs main points  Ive read all her responses. However  they 
dont change my mind.  
I understand Ms H made the three  claims as continuation, not separate, claims. That doesnt  
make any difference  to the fundamental issue of whether the evidence shows  that on the 
balance of probabilities Ms Hs cats ear problems from March 2018 were  related to the 
allergy she had in 2016.
I did see her vets follow up comment to Zenith  and took it into account  in making my 
provisional decision. It didnt change that I thought the vet had just given clarification about  
the first claim circumstances, which Zenith paid.
Im not questioning  the integrity of Ms Hs vet. I made clear  in my provisional decision that 
Ms H had the opportunity to get further evidence from the vet and what  he needed to explain 
if she wanted to show me my understanding wasnt correct. Ms Hs chosen not to get further 
evidence from the vet. 
So I still think the vets opinion just related to the circumstances of the first claim. That 
means Zenith can fairly  and reasonably decline the second and third parts  of the claim.
Ref: DRN68521134From Ms Hs point of view I can see why she thinks Zenith losing the first claim form caused 
her subsequent problems. But as I think Zenith fairly declined the second and third parts of 
the claim I dont think the loss made  any substantive difference.
Ms H says she doesnt want compensation for Zeniths poor service but her request  that it 
refund the premium  for the 2018/2019 policy is in effect for compensation. Zeniths provided 
cover (subject to the policy  terms) to this point so premiums would be payable.  If Ms H does 
want to cancel her policy  now she should contact Zenith to see if it would refund the 
remaining premium for the months it wouldnt be on risk. 
For the reasons  I've given  in my provisional  findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6852113