K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about a loan he took out with Retail Money Market Ltd T/A: RateSetter 
(RateSetter). The loan contains a fee that Mr S says he wasnt  made  aware of and hes 
unhappy about the fee, in particular that even when the loan is settled early the fee needs 
to be repaid in full.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by his partner, but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions from Mr S and his partner as if made  by Mr S.
background 
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 3 July 2020.  A copy of that provisional decision is attached  here and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was minded to 
uphold this complaint and what  needed to be done to put things right. I invited further  
comments from both parties, before I would reconsider the complaint again and issue my 
final decision.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision and said he agrees with the proposed outcome. 
RateSetter said that it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional decision and havent provided  anything new to consider I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in the attached provisional decision I uphold Mr Ss complaint and 
direct Retail Money Market Ltd T/A: RateSetter Ltd to pay Mr S £4,000. If settlement is not 
made with 28 days of Mr S accepting  this decision interest should be added to the £4,000. 
Interest should  be calculated at 8% simple  per year, from the date of this decision until the 
date of settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about a loan he took out with Retail Money Market  Ltd T/A: RateSetter (RateSetter). 
The loan contains  a fee that Mr S says he wasnt made aware of and hes unhappy  about  the fee, in 
particular that even  when the loan is settled  early  the fee needs to be repaid in full.
Mr S is represented  in his complaint by his partner, but for simplicity Ill refer to all submissions from 
Mr S and his partner as if made by Mr S.
Ref: DRN61928312background
In late November  2016  Mr S was looking  to consolidate some existing credit  commitments and 
applied for loan through RateSetters website. The loan was for £20,000 and was to be repaid over 
60 months, with regular  repayments of £580.71.  The total amount repayable, assuming the loan 
ran its 60 month term, was £34,842.60. The total amount  payable was made up from the £20,000 
borrowed, £5,354.60 interest and £9,488 fees.
Mr S made the required repayments and I understand in May 2017 asked how much it would cost to 
settle the loan early.  He was given  a settlement figure and says that he was then told that the £9,488 
loan fee was repayable in full even if he settled  the loan early. Mr S says this was not clear to him 
when taking out the loan and believes  it is unfair to charge the full amount of the fee.
Mr S complained to RateSetter and it explained  why it didnt uphold  his complaint. In summary, it 
referred to the infographic, pre-contract information  and credit agreement and that these set out 
the loan fee and that its repayable in full even if the loan is settled early. RateSetter believes the 
terms of the loan were  clearly set out and it is not prepared to reduce or waive the loan fee.
Mr S remained unhappy with RateSetters response and referred  his complaint to our service. The 
case was considered by one of our investigators and she explained why she believed Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, she was not persuaded  the information  provided to Mr S 
was completely clear around the loan fee. She also didnt think it was fair or reasonable for 
RateSetter to charge the full amount of the fee if the loan was settled early. This is because  
RateSetter had explained the fee was to essentially cover the risk to investors in case the 
repayments werent  made to the loan. The investigator felt that if the loan had been  repaid there 
would be no risk and therefore no need for the full fee to be paid.
The investigator recommended  RateSetter only charge a proportion of the fee from the date the 
loan was taken out until the date Mr S initially  enquired  about  settling the loan. Or, if the loan 
continues, RateSetter should apply a proportional fee at the time the loan is settled.
Mr S accepted the investigators conclusions. RateSetter did not. It again  referred  to the pre- 
contract information and that it believes the details  of the loan are clearly set out.
As the complaint could not be settled informally  it has been referred to me so I can issue a final 
decision. The loan has since been settled early, on 3 June 2020 where £9,598.76 was paid to 
clear the loan balance. Its my understanding that the amount paid to settle the loan included the 
full amount of the loan fee.
Relevant regulatory framework
The FCA principles apply to RateSetter  and of particular  relevance to this complaint is:
Principle 7
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules apply. And so its relevant to take these 
into account.  Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
CONC 4.3.4  Adequate  explanations
(1)Before  a P2P agreement is made,  the firm must:
(a)provide the prospective borrower with an adequate explanation  of the matters 
referred to in (2) in order  to place the borrower in a position to assess  whether  the 
Ref: DRN61928313agreement is adapted to the borrowers needs  and financial  situation;
(b)where the P2P agreement is not a non-commercial  agreement , advise  the 
prospective borrower:
(i)to consider the information which  is required to be disclosed under  
section 55(1) of the CCA; and
(ii)where the information is disclosed in person, that the borrower is 
able to take it away;
(c) provide  the prospective  borrower with an opportunity  to ask questions  about the 
agreement; and
(d)advise the prospective borrower how to ask the firm for further information  and 
explanation.
(2)The matters referred to in (1)(a)  are:
(a)the features of the agreement which may make the credit  to be provided  
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b)how much the borrower will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under  the agreement;
(d)the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would  
have a significant  adverse effect on the borrower in a way which the 
prospective borrower is unlikely to foresee;
(e)the principal consequences for the borrower  arising from a failure to make 
payments under  the agreement  at the times required by the agreement, 
including legal proceedings  and, where  this is a possibility, repossession of the 
borrowers home; and
e) the effect of the exercise  of any right to withdraw  from the agreement and how 
and when  this right may be exercised
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I am minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint  as I dont 
believe he has been treated  fairly by RateSetter.
I understand Mr S was looking to repay some existing  credit commitments and it appears he was 
directed through  to RateSetters website from an internet search engine.  RateSetter  is a peer to peer 
lender and unlike some  more traditional  lenders it is essentially a platform  where investors  and 
borrowers can be connected. The platform  will use the funds  from investors  and lend to customers 
looking for a loan. The borrower will pay interest on the loan and this interest is (subject to other 
considerations) paid to the investors.
The loan fee
RateSetter has explained  that in Mr Ss case he was required to pay a loan fee of £9,488 and this 
was made up of a fee to RateSetter for facilitating the loan,  plus a Credit Rate  Fee.  The Credit 
Rate fee was based on Mr Ss risk profile or rating and is paid to a provision fund. This provision 
fund is I understand a collective fund that is used to pay investors should Mr S not make the 
required repayments on his loan.
Ref: DRN61928314The loan fee is in addition to the interest that is charged on Mr Ss loan, which  in this case was 
charged at a fixed rate of 6.77% per year. The loan had an APR of 27.4%, as this included the 
interest and other  charges/fees  applied  to the loan.
RateSetters current  website refers  to the loan fee on the FAQ section for borrowers. It states the 
loan fee is non-refundable if the customer settles the agreement early. There is no mention here 
about the impact of early  settlement on the unpaid  portion of the loan fee, i.e. that it still needs to be 
paid in full. The lack of this, in my view, necessary detail  here is compounded by the fact that there 
is reference to the fee being non-refundable. For something  to be non-refundable  one would expect  
this to have  already been  paid,  as you cant refund  something that hasnt been paid. I accept the 
website may be referring to the portion of the loan fee that has already been  paid but as the fee is 
payable over the term of the loan the fee will not be fully paid until the loan matures. But in short,  I 
think this section of the FAQ could have been made much clearer  to consumers, so that they are 
fully informed about the impact (or lack thereof) of early settlement on the loan fee.
The pre-contract information  and the loan agreement also refer to the loan fee and Ill refer to these 
in more detail later. They  refer to the loan fee being an upfront  fee that is due and payable to 
RateSetter on the date the Agreement(s) are made. The loan fee is repaid by the consumer over the 
duration of the loan and I understand there is no alternative  option for the consumer to pay the loan 
fee in full at outset  and avoid interest on the fee. I dont consider its accurate to describe the fee as 
an upfront fee when  its paid over the duration of the loan with no option to pay it upfront.  I think  the 
way it has been described here leads  to confusion.
The fee in Mr Ss loan was £9,488, against a loan of £20,000. Its unlikely  that Mr S had the ability to 
pay a fee of almost half of what he needed to borrow. The fee did increase the APR on his loan to 
27.4%, from the annual  borrower rate of 6.77%. The borrower rate would have likely appeared 
attractive to Mr S but by structuring the loan in this way, with a reasonably attractive annual interest 
rate but a significantly  higher APR because of the loan fee, I can understand how the implications of 
early settlement on the loan fee would  not have been realised by Mr S.
The interest  rate a lender  charges a consumer  on a loan is, amongst other things, usually dependent 
on the risk profile  of the borrower. RateSetter has said that was the case  in Mr Ss loan too. 
RateSetter also says the fee was based upon Mr Ss risk profile. I appreciate the fee of £9,488 was 
partly made  up of a credit facilitator fee (which is paid to RateSetter for arranging the loan) but most  
of the fee is based upon Mr Ss risk profile. However, the amount of the loan fee that makes up this 
risk-based element  (which  RateSetter has asked that we dont refer to specifically as its confidential)  
appears to be at odds with the 6.77% charged on the borrowing.
A rate of 6.77% is likely to suggest a reasonably low to moderate level of risk but the size of the 
risk-based fee would in my view suggest that Mr S was considered  a much higher  risk. RateSetter 
has told us that during  the underwriting process Mr S was deemed a higher risk due to the high 
amount of credit utilisation against multiple credit cards.
Looking at the borrower rate of interest and the loan suggests to me that RateSetter applied  a 
different risk-based cost when deciding the borrower rate and the loan fee. When  referring  to the 
criteria applied when  underwriting Mr Ss loan, RateSetter has told us that the same risk profile 
would not attract different costs as it had only one pricing strategy in place  during 2016.  This 
suggests that every high-risk  consumer  would have received the same borrower  rate and loan fee of 
£9,488, which I think is unlikely. In this instance  the outcome  is so significant  as it means  that Mr S 
is required to pay a substantial loan fee thats applied  to the loan and as he later realised  was not 
affected if he repaid the loan early.
By scheduling  it this way, as a fee opposed to interest, the early settlement regulations  dont apply  
to the loan fee. Given  this is a consumer agreement covered by the Consumer Credit Act, the 
manner in which RateSetter has chosen to structure the interest and fee means the rebate  a person 
might expect as reasonably due is not. This has a significant and detrimental impact on Mr S in a 
Ref: DRN61928315way I think  he was unlikely to foresee. Given this, I consider that RateSetter needs to have gone to 
extra lengths  to ensure  the extent to which any early settlement benefit  might apply  was significantly 
limited.
Had Mr Ss loan been structured  with a reasonable  fee and a rate that reflected the risk he posed, 
the impact of early settlement would not have been so detrimental to him as he wouldnt  be 
required to repay the substantial  fee.
I appreciate as a peer to peer lender  RateSetter  may argue that most of the rate of 6.77% was what 
it would pay to its investors who would  have  been  indirectly associated  with Mr Ss loan. But 
RateSetter has specifically told us the fee and borrower rates are based upon the risk Mr S posed.
Its unclear if Mr S did look through  RateSetters website in detail before applying for the loan and 
whether he read the FAQ and other sections.  He did complete the application process and Ive 
referred to this next.
Application process
One of the issues in this case is about how clear the loan fee was when Mr S was applying for the 
loan. The loan was taken out online, although its unclear what type of device was used,  i.e. phone, 
tablet PC/laptop etc. Mr S has told us the loan fee was not clearly set out when he applied for the 
loan and the quote screen only showed  the loan and interest in big bold letters.
RateSetter has provided us with details  and screen shots  of the application  process  and this is what 
I understand Mr S is likely to have seen when he applied  for his loan.
The infographic is I understand  set out at the initial stage of any application  and RateSetter says that 
Mr S would have seen  this before inputting his specific application information. The infographic 
refers to important information about your agreement  and the largest section of it sets out what is 
your agreement made up of. This includes  a large  diagram that represents what  needs to be repaid 
and includes the amount of credit, loan fee and interest. The diagram has the amount of credit 
shown as by far the largest section, well over 75%, and the remaining sections of interest and loan 
fee are approximately  equal.  The diagram illustrates  that less than a quarter of the amount  to be 
repaid is made up of the loan fee and interest.
There are no caveats or disclaimers on the diagram to indicate this is a typical illustration but Mr Ss 
loan is likely to be different. Mr Ss loan is considerably different, with the loan fee and interest 
amounting to approximately 43% of the total amount  repayable. Without any warning or disclaimer I 
consider the infographic to be misleading and would likely  have left Mr S with the wrong 
understanding of the overall cost of the lending to him. RateSetter accepts the infographic does  not 
accurately reflect the loan the consumer took out but highlights other sections of the application  
process that Mr S would also have seen. Ill refer to these in more detail below but I think the 
infographic creates  a particularly  misleading  impression and given its size and prominence I think  it 
likely Mr S would have  seen and placed considerable weight on it.
The infographic does then,  underneath the large  diagram, refer to what  happens  if the consumer 
wants to pay back early. The large NO FEE graphic is then set out alongside the smaller text that 
reads:
You certainly can - and we dont charge you a fee to do so. You simply  pay what  is left of the sum 
you borrowed  and the Loan  Fee, plus any interest  to date. The earlier  you pay it back,  the less 
interest you will have to pay. Simple.
While there may be no additional fee payable if the loan is settled early  Mr S is required  to pay the 
remainder of the loan fee that has yet to be paid.  The text referring  to having to pay whats left of the 
loan fee and the sum borrowed is small  in comparison  to the NO FEE graphic, which immediately  
draws the eye. Im not persuaded  the reference to NO FEE is completely clear  and again I think it 
Ref: DRN61928316creates a misleading  impression as to what was payable in the event  of early settlement. This is in 
my view more significant for Mr S, for the reasons set out elsewhere in this decision and because his 
loan fee was so substantial.
After completing  some  personal details Mr S would have been presented with a screen that provides 
a personal quote. That screen sets out the amount  and term of the loan, the monthly  cost, total cost 
and APR. The loan fee is not mentioned  specifically  on this screen, although I appreciate  it is 
included within the total cost amount. This actual  pounds and pence cost of the loan fee would  not 
however have been clear  to Mr S at the time and I think its reasonable to assume the total cost of 
the loan is, for the most  part, made up from the capital and interest, as is common in most types of 
lending.
After adding some further personal details and clicking the apply button Mr S was then taken 
through to the decision  section, where he was told his loan had been agreed.  This section is 
different to the previous screen and in addition to that shown  on the quote  screen, the loan fee was 
included. The loan fee section is the same size and font as all the loan details, apart from the APR 
which is different,  in that the APR is in a bigger sized font.
After clicking to the next section Mr S would  have  seen a message congratulations  and 
confirmation that his loan has been  approved.  The loan details, including the loan fee, are set out 
again in the same  font and size as the previous screen.
The pre-contract information  is provided on the following section and in addition to this detailed 
document the loan details are again set out on the screen. The loan fee is again  referenced  here, 
although not in the same bold text as some other parts of the pre-contract  information referring to 
key features of the loan and how it operates. The pre-contract information is a much  more detailed 
document and some way down the document in the Any other  costs deriving  from the credit 
agreement section the loan fee is mentioned. This section also states that if the loan is repaid  
early the loan fee will need  to be repaid in full.
The credit  agreement  is provided next for Mr S to sign, which he did. This is similar in many ways to 
the pre-contract  information,  but the loan fee is in my view more prominent as it is the second piece 
of information immediately under the amount of credit section. This section again states the loan fee 
is immediately payable and due.
Having considered  the application process  that Mr S went through there can be no dispute that the 
loan fee is mentioned and referred to on more  than one occasion in that process. Mr Ss own credit 
agreement refers  to the specific loan fee on his loan and Ive not seen anything  to indicate that his 
application process  was anything different to what RateSetter has shown during this complaint.
While the loan fee is set out I note that its not specifically mentioned on the initial quote screen  
where Mr S was told the basic details of his loan.  The amount borrowed and total repayable  was 
set out but there was nothing to indicate or alert Mr S to the fact that the £14,842 cost of the 
loan was made  up of £9,488 in fees.  The decision screen which follows  does set out the loan 
fee but this appears to be the only piece of additional information  that was not on the previous  
screen, when  referring to the loan details. I can understand  how easily this would be overlooked 
by Mr S as at a glance  the details would have looked the same. I believe the same would  apply 
to the following screens as there isnt anything to obviously draw the eye to additionally broken-
down figures  setting out the cost of the loan fee. I think Mr S would not likely have noticed 
anything different  to the previous sections.
The pre-contract screen does include some additional information  but some of these  sections are 
in bold, which  I believe  would have been to draw Mr Ss attention to those specific details. The 
pre-contract information is the first section  to mention that the loan fee would  become immediately 
payable and due if the loan was settled early. This is however some  way down the document 
amongst the other  details of the proposed  agreement and isnt one of the bolded  sections.
Ref: DRN61928317The contract screen appears similar in many ways to the pre-contract screen but a purple click  here 
to sign button immediately draws the eye to that section of the screen. The loan fee is again 
mentioned on this screen, as well as noting it is payable and due if the loan was settled early.
After reviewing the application process, including the infographic, Im not persuaded  the process 
presented information in a clear, fair and not misleading way. I also dont consider the loan fee, in 
particular the effect of early settlement, was set out in a way that made  it clear  to Mr S that early 
settlement may have a significant adverse  effect  on him, as hell be required to repay the loan fee 
in full.
The loan fee in Mr Ss case was £9,488 and equivalent to 47% of the capital sum borrowed. It was 
considerably more than the £5,354 interest due on the loan and was 64% of the total cost of the 
loan (excluding the £20,000 capital).
While its not unusual for loans to include fees,  in addition to the interest, the fee in Mr Ss case  was 
substantial. I see no reason  why this fee was not included on the initial quote screen, especially as it 
appears on the following screens. The following screens, while mentioning the loan fee and its cost, 
dont however highlight it in any way, such as making it in bold, and I can see how Mr S would not 
have noticed the inclusion  of the loan fee on subsequent screens.  I think  the absence  of a 
substantial loan fee on the first screen is troubling, given the fact that the significant  sum of £9,488  
is due in full irrespective of whether Mr S settles the loan early and for all of the other reasons I have 
touched on above. I think given  the concerning absence of the loan fee on the first screen, 
RateSetter has not acted fairly or reasonably in the way it has illustrated the loan.
The loan fee on early settlement
As already  set out above, the loan fee is made of two parts, the credit facilitator  fee and an amount  
paid to the provision fund. These are not equal  amounts and the amount paid to the provision  fund is 
significantly higher than the facilitator fee. An arrangement or facilitator fee is not uncommon  when 
taking out a loan. Fees towards a provision  fund are less common and usually not a feature  in 
consumer lending. RateSetter has explained that the provision fund is so that investors will still be 
paid if the borrowers do not make the repayments to their loans. As referred  to above, looking at the 
significant portion of the loan fee that was to be paid to the provision  fund it would appear that 
RateSetter felt there was not an insignificant  risk of Mr S not making his repayments.
Subject of course to the fees,  and other terms of the loan, being  clearly set out for the consumer to 
consider and agree  to, it may not be unreasonable to charge  a fee that would  be paid to a provision  
fund. The fee is to cover the risk and again, assuming the consumer is fully aware of that and 
accepts that, it may not be unreasonable for the fee to be payable. However, where  there is no risk 
of non-payment, i.e. once the loan has been fully repaid,  and/or that fee is not clearly set out, I think  
its unreasonable  to insist upon the payment of the fee.
A consumer  could be in the position where they want to repay the loan within  the first few months of 
the term, but they would be required to pay the full amount of the loan fee for what  was a very short 
period of borrowing.  The risk that the protection fee was set out to protect against in Mr Ss case has 
not materialised. RateSetter  has therefore  not suffered  any loss. It may be that the protection  fund 
might act as a global fund for other investors where loans  have not been maintained. But that fact, 
and the fact that the loan fee therefore would also be payable in full, would need in my view need to 
be brought into sharp focus for any borrower.  And as Ive set out above,  I dont believe that it has.
In Mr Ss case I understand he enquired about  settling  the loan in early May 2017,  which was 
within a year of taking  out the loan. The loan wasnt settled at that time as Mr S was unhappy about  
the amount required to settle  the loan, in particular the inclusion  of the loan fee in full. The issue for 
Mr S was more  significant because of the size of the loan fee and it being 64% of the actual cost of 
the loan (i.e. interest  and charges).
Having considered  the specific circumstances  of Mr Ss case Im not persuaded RateSetter  has 
Ref: DRN61928318treated Mr S reasonably by insisting  the loan fee is paid in full where the loan is to be repaid early. 
Any risk to RateSetter that Mr S didnt  make the loan repayments would  of course  disappear if the 
loan was repaid in full. Its therefore unreasonable in my view to apply a charge to Mr S for a cost 
that RateSetter would not incur.
Summary
Having considered  all that both parties have said and provided in this case Im not persuaded  that 
RateSetter made it clear  to Mr S the significance of the loan fee in his case and the impact on him if 
he chose to settle  the loan early. The infographic  was in my view misleading  and created an 
incorrect impression that the loan fee only represented a small  proportion of what  was repayable. 
There was no warning  or subsequent  infographic that correctly highlighted that the £9,488 loan fee 
in his case made  up a much  greater proportion of the amount  payable.
Its reasonable  to assume Mr S would  have greater  attention  to the initial quote screen  and this 
made no reference to the loan fee or that this would need to be repaid  in full. The loan fee was set 
out later,  as was the requirement to repay the loan fee in full on early settlement.  I dont however 
consider this to be clear when considering  the application process  as a whole.
CONC 4.3.4  indicates that RateSetter  must  provide  Mr S with an adequate  explanation of the 
features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a significant adverse  
effect on him in a way he is unlikely to foresee.  This is so that Mr S can assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to his needs and financial situation. Principal  7 also requires  RateSetter to 
communicate information to Mr S in a way which  is clear, fair and not misleading. Having 
considered the specific circumstances of this case, and for the reasons  set out above,  Im not 
persuaded RateSetter has done this.
I also dont think RateSetter has treated  Mr S reasonably  or fairly  by insisting the loan fee is paid in 
full where the loan is to be repaid early.  Any risk to RateSetter that Mr S didnt make the loan 
repayments would disappear once the loan was repaid  in full.
Redress
Had Mr S been better informed about the loan fee and that it would still need to be repaid in full on 
early settlement Mr S may have decided  to look elsewhere for an alternative loan. I understand he 
was using  the loan to repay existing  credit commitments,  but it wont now be possible to say with 
certainty what alternative loan Mr S may have taken and whether this would have been more  
favourable.
Mr S may have decided to not take out the RateSetter  loan and continue  with his existing 
commitments, very likely incurring additional interest  and possibly charges on those existing  credit 
commitments.
Its also no longer  possible to be certain that Mr S would  have got alternative funding  to settle this 
loan early when he first enquired. Part of the loan fee was made  up of the facilitator fee which I 
think would still be required to be repaid in full. And the majority of the £20,000 capital would  have 
still been  outstanding.  It is not uncommon for borrowers to enquire about the settlement value  of a 
loan and this doesnt mean that in every case the loan is to be repaid at that time.
The loan has now been  repaid in full and I understand this was after Mr S acquired funds from 
friends and family to settle the loan. This might suggest that Mr S was unable to obtain more 
preferable refinancing through other lenders if he used friends and family. Although I accept this is 
not always  the case  and Mr S may have  had other options but simply  chose friends  and family if 
these were more  favorable.
The amount required to settle the loan now was however significantly less than it would have likely 
been when Mr S first enquired in May 2017. Theres no certainty that friends  and family would  have 
Ref: DRN61928319been able to help Mr S settle  the loan in May 2017  even  if a large  amount of the loan fee was not 
needing to be paid. Any alternative loan that Mr S may have intended to take out in May 2017 to 
settle this loan, assuming the loan fee hadnt  needed to be paid in full, would have attracted interest.
Ultimately it is difficult  now to say with certainty what Mr S would have done differently had he been 
fully informed when looking to take out the loan. It is therefore difficult, for the same reasons, to 
quantify any loss that Mr S has incurred.  Having very carefully considered  the circumstances  of this 
complaint I think it possible that Mr S would have taken alternative finance instead of the RateSetter  
loan had he been fully informed about the loan fee and the need to pay it in full. But I think  its more  
likely than not that the alternative loan would  have  had a higher borrower interest rate and its quite 
likely a similar  APR to the RateSetter  loan. Had Mr S therefore taken  the alternative loan and settled 
it early, he still would  have likely paid a similar amount in repayments up to the point of settlement. 
But he would have avoided the need  to repay the remainder of the loan fee.
I again cannot  be certain Mr S would  have settled  the loan when  he first enquired  about  early 
settlement as this was not actually that long into the agreement. But it would  not be unreasonable  to 
assume that Mr S did decide  to settle the loan early around  the halfway point in the loan, after the 
initial balance had reduced somewhat. Considering the amount of the provision fund element of the 
loan fee and an approximate amount that might have been due at this point I think RateSetter  
should make  a payment  to reflect this. This is also on the basis that Mr S could have  taken an 
alternative loan, albeit  at a higher rate, instead of the RateSetter loan.
I also think  Mr S has been caused some degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
misled and the unreasonable way the loan fee has been applied in his case. It is difficult  to calculate 
an exact figure, but considering all these factors  Im minded to instruct  RateSetter to pay Mr S 
£4,000.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions from both parties Im minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint  and 
direct Retail Money Market  Ltd T/A: RateSetter  Ltd to pay Mr S £4,000.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6192831