K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc handled his claim for a refund of money 
he paid for an installation of windows and doors.  Mr P took a point of sale loan through 
Hitachi for part of the cost. Hes also unhappy with some actions of the credit broker. 
background
The facts  of this complaint  are well known to both parties, so I wont set them out in full 
detail. In summary, Mr P agreed to have  some windows and doors fitted  to his property by a 
company Ill refer to as W. Part of the funds were agreed to be paid by Hitachi as a point of 
sale loan, brokered  by W, to be released on completion. 
In November 2016 work began on the installation, but the work wasnt completed as agreed.  
W said it found a risk of asbestos at the property  and needed to get a sample analysed 
before it could continue. Mr P was unhappy  with the delay  and complained to W  saying he 
intended to bring  court  action against  them if the work wasnt  completed in a satisfactory  
timescale. W apologised for the delay and for not keeping him updated.
The installation continued a few weeks after it started. Mr P remained unhappy with some  of 
the work  and a list of agreed issues was produced.  W asked Mr P to sign a form confirming 
he would  pay for the installation  once  the agreed work was completed.  Mr P wouldnt sign 
this.
W returned to Mr Ps property to finish the job. In January 2017 it said all work  was 
completed within standards and tolerances. Mr P said he still wasnt happy with the work. He 
said the front door wasnt level in the door frame.  And he said one of the windows appeared 
lopsided.
Mr P again  said he would seek court action against W if it didnt resolve  things to his 
satisfaction. W said it wanted  to send some  senior staff out to look at the work - to see if 
anything was wrong with it and to put things  right.  It also said it would counter claim if Mr P 
did seek court action, for the unpaid funds,  contractual interest and its legal costs. Mr P 
wouldnt allow W to attend the property.
In February 2017  Mr P signed a customer satisfaction note.  He wrote without prejudice 
next to his signature. Hitachi then released  funds to W and Mr P paid off the remaining 
outstanding balance. Mr P says he only signed the note because W misinformed  and 
misadvised him.
Mr P has also given  a lot of detail  about how the service  and installation  he received from W 
fell far below the standard he would expect including the initial quality of work, attitude of 
staff and communication issues.
Mr P later complained to Hitachi and requested a refund of all his costs.  He said there  had 
been several breaches of contract  with W and he remained unhappy  with the work 
completed. He also said W misled him into taking the finance, intimidated  him and extorted 
money. 
Ref: DRN63879152Hitachi said it wouldnt provide a refund, but said it would like the opportunity  to put the work 
right. It asked if W could attend Mr Ps house to inspect the problems. Mr P again said he 
wouldnt allow anyone from W onto his property.  Hitachi said because of this it couldnt do 
anything further  and wouldnt refund him. Mr P remained unhappy and our service  began to 
investigate Mr Ps complaint about  Hitachi.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen enough to make  him 
think there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  so he didnt think  that 
Hitachi had done  anything wrong in its handling of Mr Ps claim for a refund. Mr P remained 
unhappy, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I sent Mr P and Hitachi a provisional decision on 12 November  2018. This explained that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint.  Ill include my findings from the decision below:
Hitachi can be held liable  for the actions  of W in regard to its role of arranging  the finance for 
it. So Ill consider  if W did anything wrong as a credit-broker, such as misleading  or 
pressuring Mr P into taking  the finance.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. Section 75 of 
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 is relevant  to this complaint. This says in certain 
circumstances, the borrower  under a credit  agreement  has an equal right to claim  against  
the credit  provider if theres  been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services.
So, I need to think about how Hitachi handled Mr Ps claim for a refund. Ill consider whether 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by W in respect of the installation 
service it provided. If there was, I need to think about what  would be fair for Hitachi to do to 
put things right. 
I want to reassure Mr P that I have  read and thought  about  everything hes sent to us. But, 
hes made several specific complaints about the service received from W, including how 
members of staff spoke to him, how W went about  settling the dispute regarding  the 
installation and its response to Mr P when he said he was intending  to take court action 
against it. I cant consider  these issues against  Hitachi  so I havent addressed them . This 
is because Hitachi isnt responsible for the general customer  service provided by W  or the 
actions of its legal team. But, as I explained  above,  it is responsible  for Ws role in credit-
broking, or if there was a potential breach of contract or misrepresentation in relation to the 
installation contract it financed.
Mr P says he was misled into taking the finance as before he agreed to it, he was told by 
Ws staff that he wouldnt have to pay unless he was happy with the work. 
Part of the agreement  with W and Hitachi  was that Mr P wouldnt pay until he was satisfied 
with the installation. The Money Matters  guide  says:
Payment from Hitachi Capital to W is not released until you the customer are happy with 
the installation  of the product. Funds are only released and the Account opened when  
Hitachi Capital are in receipt of your signed satisfaction note.
Ref: DRN63879153So, I think its likely Mr P was told something similar to this during his initial discussions with 
Ws staff. But, it appears they were telling  him about a genuine  feature of the finance  
agreement. So, I dont think W misled him into taking the credit when it told him this. Ive also 
considered whether anything else W did could  be considered giving Mr P false  information 
that induced Mr P into taking the contract. But, I havent seen anything to make  me think this 
is likely.  Taking  everything into account, I dont  think there has been  a misrepresentation by 
the credit  broker.
Mr P said that he wasnt satisfied with the work  completed when the funds were released  by 
Hitachi. And he believes this is a breach of contract  due to what  the Money Matters guide 
says above. But, Hitachi did receive a signed  satisfaction note. So Im satisfied there wasnt 
a breach of contract caused by Hitachi releasing the funds to W.
Mr P said he was sold the installation on the basis that his satisfaction was unconditional.  I 
dont doubt that what  Mr P said about how he feels about the quality of the work  is genuine.  
But I dont think its enough  to conclude there was a breach of contract because Mr P feels  
unsatisfied with the work. I think,  taking into account the relevant law (The Consumer Rights  
Act 2015), it would be fair to consider  if the installation was carried  out with reasonable care 
and skill. If it wasnt, this would be a breach of contract.
Mr P has given  a detailed description of exactly what he thinks  was wrong with the door and 
window installation  and he says these issues are still outstanding. But, Ive also considered  
that W said the work was fully completed and within standards  and tolerances.  This means 
Ive got two differing accounts of what happened that I have to weigh up. So, Ive looked  to 
see what other evidence  is available to support Mr Ps claim that the installation  and follow  
up work hasnt been carried  out properly. 
I asked Mr P to send either photos or a video to show the outstanding issues   but he hasnt 
been willing  to provide  these. He hasnt provided  an independent report  to give details of the 
problems. And, hes repeatedly refused  to allow W access to his property  to check the 
remaining issues itself, including the offer of sending a Quality Assurance  Manager and a 
Senior Installation Manager. 
Ive taken into account what Mr P said about the circumstances surrounding him signing the 
customer satisfaction notice. I appreciate that signing a satisfaction  note does  not always  tell 
the whole  story, and it doesnt mean Mr P loses his right to complain later on. But I also have 
to factor  in that Mr P did sign this note - which says I confirm the goods and installation 
where applicable are to my complete satisfaction. And I need to weigh that up - along  with 
the lack of persuasive evidence to show the installation was carried  out without reasonable 
care and skill. 
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think the work was 
carried out without  reasonable skill and care. So, I dont think  there  was a breach of contract 
in respect of the quality of the installation.
Mr P has specifically  pointed out sections 14 and 15 in the contract with W that he believes 
has been breached. Section 14 is about the timeliness of an install. It says:
The Company will use reasonable endeavours to honour any installation date given, but 
cannot be held liable  for any losses suffered as a result of any delay that has resulted from 
factors that are outside the reasonable control  of the Company
Ref: DRN63879154If the Company is unable to meet an installation date, it shall give the Purchaser as much 
notice as possible and arrange an alternative convenient date 
The installation of Mr Ps windows began on the second day agreed.  And while  it didnt finish 
within the initial timescales given, W said this was due to a potential health  and safety issue 
because it had to check a sample for asbestos.  Ive thought carefully  about  everything Mr P 
said about this and that he doesnt  believe the sample was necessary, or perhaps even 
taken. But, I havent  seen enough  to make me think its more likely than not that W delayed  
the installation  for no reason. I think its most likely  it thought  there was potentially  a health 
and safety risk. And Im satisfied this is a reasonable cause  for some delay.
The contract doesnt say the work  will definitely be completed within  a specific  timescale  it 
says W would use reasonable endeavours to honour this. I do agree there were 
communication issues between Mr P and W to agree a date to continue  for which  it 
apologised. But, W did arrange an alternative date to finish the installation.  Taking  
everything into account, I dont think this term of the contract was breached.
Section 15 says that if the work wasnt completed  within the delivery  period quoted, Mr P 
could serve written notice requiring that the works be completed within  a reasonable period 
of not less than six weeks. If the work  wasnt completed, Mr P could  cancel the contract if he 
put this in writing  - but only if the delay was due to reasons outside of the  reasonable control  
of W. But, it doesnt appear Mr P did serve  a written notice to complete the work,  or wrote to 
W to cancel the contract. So I dont think this term of the contract was breached either.
In summary,  I dont think the credit broker misrepresented the loan to Mr P. And based on 
everything Mr P and Hitachi have presented to me, I dont think  there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by W in respect of the installation contract financed  by the 
loan. So Im initially satisfied Hitachi didnt do anything wrong in its handling of Mr Ps 
complaint about  credit  broking or his request for a refund under Section 75.
I gave both parties one month to provide any further  comments or evidence.  Hitachi  didnt 
initially respond. Mr P responded and disagreed  with my provisional  decision. He feels  very 
strongly that my provisional decision was incorrect and his case  should be upheld. He made  
various comments and has sent in several  photographs.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having thought  about  everything again, 
along with the comments and photos Mr P sent in response to my provisional  decision, I still 
think this complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr P complained that my decision was too simplified. Its worth pointing  out we are an 
informal dispute resolution service - so I wont echo the length of Mr Ps submissions or his 
writing style. This isnt meant to be disrespectful in any way but simply reflects the informal  
nature of this service.  I have considered everything Mr P has said and provided to us - even 
if I havent included  or referenced  everything  hes said in my decision.
Mr P made several general statements about the provisional decision, including  that it was 
slanderous to his character, generally  factually inaccurate and entirely misrepresentative.  
Ive carefully read my provisional decision again but I dont agree this is the case. Im happy  
the findings I made in my provisional decision are still accurate, fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN63879155Some of what Mr P says in his response  reiterates points hes previously raised.  Im satisfied 
my provisional decision addresses  many  of these issues. Where  Im happy points have been 
previously considered, I wont repeat myself here.  This includes what  Hitachi  is responsible 
for under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
Mr P raised some specific concerns in his response  about asbestos. In summary, he says he 
received contradictory  information about this from the installer. And he believes there was 
never a chance  that asbestos  was in the property.  Hes also sent in some  photos which he 
says proves this.
I asked Hitachi if it could  provide any further  evidence or comments  about this. Some  system 
notes from W were  sent to us. These are dated  from the end of November  2016  to the 
beginning of December  2016. These notes say (staff member)  has phoned from site  he 
has taken asbestos  sample, suspected asbestos  sample taken by (staff member),  
asbestos internal as far as I understand from (staff member).
Mr P responded in some length about the above notes. In summary, he believes these notes 
back up his version of events - which Ive carefully thought  about.  And hes questioned the 
credibility of these notes.  But I havent  seen enough  to persuade  me these arent genuine.
Its important to point  out that in my provisional decision I didnt consider whether or not 
asbestos was in the property. What I explained was that I thought  it was more likely than not 
W thought there was a potential risk. Ive carefully considered the photos  Mr P sent us in 
relation to this. But I dont  agree these  show there  couldnt have been a potential risk of 
asbestos.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr P has said about this - both in his original 
complaint and in response to my provisional decision. And Ive considered that Mr P told us 
hed spent a great deal of money on asbestos  removal and previously paid to have samples 
taken of anything remotely likely to be asbestos. But I dont agree  with Mr P that this 
means there  couldnt have been a risk  if asbestos  was previously in the property then it 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me that W would be cautious about this.
I dont know for sure what happened. But, I still think it is most likely W thought there  was a 
potential health  and safety  risk. 
Mr P also said that these notes prove W wilfully  breached  the contract as he believes the 
notes show W were  in a position  to resume  work  from 9 December 2016. There is a note on 
this date that says asbestos result unlicensed . But I dont necessarily agree with Mr P that 
this shows W couldve resumed work that day. And, even if I did assume this meant the 
asbestos sample was returned safely at this point,  I dont  think  W wouldve breached  the 
contract by not immediately starting  the work  again.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the contract that that the installation  
should be carried out within a reasonable time. So, I need to consider whether this was the 
case. Work began on the installation one day after it was agreed.  And W emailed Mr P to 
say the work was completed and everything installed within standards  and tolerances just 
over seven weeks later  which includes the delay due to what  W said was a risk of 
asbestos. Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont think  this was an 
unreasonable amount of time.
Ref: DRN63879156In Mr Ps response to my provisional decision he said that he shall be the sole  determinate  
of any quality standards and mentions his exacting  standards . I appreciate  how strongly 
Mr P feels  about this and he is of course  entitled  to his own very high standards. But when 
considering if theres been a breach of contract, I need to take into account the relevant law 
 which  does not apply the test of what Mr Ps standards  are. Here  the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015 implies a term into the contract that the work needed to be carried out with what a 
reasonable person would consider to be reasonable care and skill  taking  into account 
things such as description, price paid and other  relevant factors. So I need to put myself  in 
the shoes of a reasonable  person to consider this. Please note that in no way am I implying 
that Mr P is unreasonable  just that a different set of standards  applies.
Mr P has sent in various photos of his property. Some  of these photos are of a wall which 
Mr P says was constructed incorrectly and a window  handle which was installed incorrectly.  
It appears these issues were both included  in the list of agreed issues to be put right by W. 
Considering these photos, I think  this may have  been a breach of contract. But, as far as Im 
aware, both of these  issues  were  rectified  some  time ago - before the installation  as a whole  
was finished. So either way, I dont think this means  that the complete installation  wasnt  
carried out without  reasonable care and skill. And, because the issues  are no longer 
outstanding, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Hitachi  to take further action.
Ive looked very carefully at the photos of Mr Ps windows and door that hes sent in. And Ive 
thought very carefully about all of the testimony  hes given - and compared this to the 
photos. I should point out that I appreciate Mr P will be in a better position to observe any 
issues by directly observing the work  himself.  But I need  to base my decision on what  I can 
see, along with what Mr P has told us.
Mr P has provided photos of his back window that he says is completely lopsided . It 
should be noted that the photos dont  contain any markings or measurements for distances 
or angles. And Mr Ps curtains  cover the bottom  corners of the window. Having considered  
this, I cant see that the window  is lopsided as Mr P describes. And I cant see anything  else 
to persuade me that the installation wasnt done with reasonable care and skill.
Mr P has also provided photos  of his front door which he says isnt level within  the frame. 
Again, the photos dont contain any markings  or measurements of angles or distances.  Ive 
carefully looked at these   in particular at the top left angle as pointed  out by Mr P. But 
having done so, I cant see the issues Mr P describes. And I cant see anything which makes 
me think the installation wasnt  done  with reasonable care and skill.
So, having  considered everything, I still havent seen enough to make me think the work was 
carried out without  reasonable care and skill. So Im still satisfied there  was no breach of 
contract in relation to this.
Mr P has said the contract was breached because he wasnt kept informed of delays. I said 
in my provisional decision that I agreed  there were communication issues between  W and 
Mr P to agree a date to complete the installation. But I dont agree  with Mr P that this was a 
breach of contract.
Ref: DRN63879157Mr P has again said he believes section 15 of the contract was breached because he served  
W written notice  to complete the work. Ive reviewed everything  Mr P sent us and the earliest 
written communication  to W I can see is an email  dated 11 December 2017.  I still dont  
think this communication  clearly or specifically serves a written  notice to complete the work. 
But, even  if I thought it did, W confirmed the work was completed  within  six weeks  of the 
date of this email. And I still cant see that Mr P wrote  to cancel the contract.  So, either way, I 
dont think this part of the contract has been breached.
Ive thought about everything else Mr P said in response to my provisional decision.  But I still 
dont think there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by W in respect of the 
installation contract financed by the loan. And I still dont think  W did anything wrong in its 
role as a credit broker. Taking  everything into account, Im satisfied Hitachi  didnt do 
anything wrong  in its handling  of Mr Ps complaint about credit broking or his request for a 
refund under  Section  75 of the Consumer  Rights  Act 1974.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6387915