K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund  a payment of £150  he didnt 
authorise.
  
background
Mr I said £150 was debited from his account for a transaction he didnt agree with or 
authorise.
Nationwide said when  Mr I contacted it in December 2018  about this payment, it stopped 
and replaced his card. But after it investigated the transaction it found there was a previous 
Chip and Pin transaction earlier  that month to the same  merchant.  So it didnt think this 
second payment  was a fraudulent transaction and it redebited the amount. It told Mr I he 
would have to contact the merchant himself.
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong. Mr I said hed previously  
used this merchant  but he disputed the second payment. She could  see Nationwide  had 
investigated the transaction and was satisfied it was a legitimate payment. So in those 
circumstances she concluded it didnt have to do anything more.
Mr I didnt agree. He said once hed drawn Nationwides attention to this transaction  which 
he didnt agree with, it didnt  have any right to release the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer disputes  a transaction we would expect the bank, or in this case 
Nationwide, to reasonably investigate the complaint to decide if it can refund the customer.  
But under the rules  of the relevant card scheme Nationwide  doesnt  have  to make a detailed 
assessment or decide the relative merits of the dispute. 
 
And as the investigator said, its not our role to decide if either  the merchant or Mr I is 
entitled to the money. Our role is to decide if Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  when it 
redebited Mr Is account. Mr I initially said he didnt know the merchant. But when 
Nationwide investigated,  it saw that Mr I had authorised  a previous payment. And the 
merchant told Nationwide  the second payment was owed from a previous use of its services.  
In those circumstances Nationwide  didnt have to investigate further. Its important to realise 
that under  the relevant  card scheme  rules Nationwide doesnt  have to assess  the merits of 
the dispute. That is between Mr I and the merchant. Nationwide just had to carry out a 
reasonable investigation. I think its done  that.
So for those reasons Im satisfied Nationwide didnt  do anything  wrong  when it redebited 
Mr Is account.
Ref: DRN62748742my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6274874