K821x#15complaint
F, a business, complains  that when it changed  its method of credit card payment processing 
with GPUK LLP (trading  as Global Payments)  (GPUK) it wasnt told about the additional 
cost of becoming PCI DSS compliant, which is a required  part of online credit  card 
acceptance. 
Mr D brings this complaint  on behalf  of F.
background
Mr D said that he changed the way that F accepts  credit card payments, from a physical 
terminal to an online terminal. Because F was changing how it accepted payments, it 
needed to do more than before, to remain compliant with the industry requirements for data 
security, the Payment  Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). 
If F doesnt make  sure it complies with that standard, GPUK will apply an extra  charge for its 
processing. GPUK doesnt offer to ensure that F is compliant  with the standard itself, if F is 
processing payments  online. It partners with a third party, which charges a monthly fee.
But Mr D said he asked GPUKs salesman directly about the costs of this different terminal  
type, and wasnt  told about the additional  cost that F would incur  to make sure it was PCI 
DSS compliant.
GPUK says that by the time it responded to Mr Ds complaint, it was no longer able to listen 
to that particular call. But it thought its salesperson did mention this cost. And it says this 
cost is covered in its terms and conditions, and also its supporting documents.  So when 
Mr D signed the relevant  documentation to change Fs terminal  type, he agreed  to this 
payment. 
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said GPUK  had done 
enough to alert Mr D to the costs, through the documentation it sent him. And he said there  
was an onus on Mr D to be aware  of what was required  to maintain PCI DSS compliance. 
He thought that GPUK couldve provided  a better  service when Mr D wanted  to complain. 
But he said that overall he thought that the compensation  GPUK had paid was enough. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said GPUK shouldve sent one document summarising all the costs, 
and he shouldnt have  had to go through various  documents to work  out the price. Although 
our investigator thought  that wouldve been helpful,  he didnt think GPUK  had to do that. 
Mr D wanted an ombudsman to look at Fs complaint so this case then came to me for a final 
decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr Ds initial complaint was that he wasnt told about the increased cost of a virtual  
terminal. Our investigator didnt reach a view on whether or not Mr D was told that on the 
phone, but he said that GPUK had done  enough  to tell Mr D about the increased cost. 
Ref: DRN60581062-I do think that GPUKs documentation  sets out that there would be an extra  cost for PCI 
DSS compliance, for a business  thats using a virtual terminal.  So I dont think  that GPUK 
has done anything  wrong by charging  F for this service. And if F wants to continue to use 
the virtual terminal, then it will either have to pay this charge, or find an alternative  way of 
complying with the relevant standard. 
-But I also think that it is likely that GPUKs salesman made  a mistake about the overall 
costs on the phone.  And for that reason, I think GPUK should pay a little more  
compensation than our investigator  suggested.
-GPUK wasnt able to listen  to the relevant call, where Mr D says he asked a direct 
question about  costs. Theres no suggestion that this was a deliberate  oversight on its 
part. It just doesnt keep hold of its recorded  calls for that long. But it was able to listen  to 
a later call. GPUKs notes  suggest  that on this call recording,  the same  salesperson  says 
that he doesnt think the cost to F for a virtual  terminal  should be any more than the 
physical terminal, but he cant  confirm that, as costs can vary. 
-GPUK has told us that an increase in monthly costs  for PCI DSS compliance, from £3.50  
plus vat to £7 plus vat, is to be expected with a change from a physical to a virtual  
terminal. That means that, if the salesperson  said later that he didnt think  the price 
would change, he was mistaken. 
-Mr D has always said he asked a direct question  about costs, and was given  the wrong 
information. Because the same person appears to have  made a very similar  mistake  on 
a later call, I think its most  likely  that GPUKs salesman did make this mistake  about the 
costs of a virtual terminal compared to a physical terminal, on the call he initially had with 
Mr D. I think that Mr D, on behalf of F, probably  was given misleading information on the 
phone. 
-I dont think that means that GPUK can only charge Mr D the lower  fee. But I do think  it 
should do something to make up for this. I also note that its taken a very long time for 
Mr D, on behalf of F, to be able to resolve  this. His initial  complaint wasnt picked up by 
GPUK. 
-Mr D would like GPUK to cover  the additional  fee that F is now being charged, and pay 
£250 for the time hes spent on this. But although I do think  GPUK should  pay more than 
the £50 it has sent to F, I think that what  Mr D suggests is a little more  than I would 
propose in a case like this. 
-I think that GPUK should pay F a further  £100  in compensation, in addition  to the £50 
goodwill gesture it has already  paid. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr D didnt reply. GPUK  wrote to object. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ref: DRN60581063GPUK didnt feel that its salesman made  a mistake regarding the overall costs on the initial 
sales call. It said its sales agents arent  qualified to advise  on this particular point, so they 
would not discuss  specific pricing  or security requirements. GPUK  said its sales agents 
would always direct its customer  to the relevant third party  to discuss this.  
GPUK said that F was already using the service of this third party  for its pre-existing card 
payment processing  facility. So it thought  Mr D was aware of the process.  It repeated that its 
sales team  isnt trained on exact costs,  and said thats why Mr D was told on 11 February 
2019 that, 'the costs  can vary'. GPUK repeated that its process was always  to refer a 
customer to this third party, and said that meant  it would be safe to assume that this call 
followed that process. 
GPUK said the third party fees were set out in documentation sent to Mr D.
GPUK thought that Mr D had been  provided  with all the necessary information. So it didnt 
believe he was mislead by the salesman. So it thought that its previous gesture of goodwill 
of £50 is fair and reasonable.
In my provisional decision,  I noted that GPUK wasnt able to listen to the relevant call, where 
Mr D says he asked a direct question about costs,  because  the recording had already been  
erased. It did listen to a later call. And its notes suggest that the same salesperson said of 
that call he didnt think the cost to F for a virtual terminal  should  be any more than the 
physical terminal, but he cant confirm that, as costs can vary. 
GPUK says that this reference to varied costs is part of its process of referring customers  to 
its third party  for pricing. But I still think that the salesman,  on this call, did give an indication  
of costs. GPUK now suggests that isnt part of its process at all. It also thinks  that its safe to 
assume that its process was properly followed on the earlier  call. 
What GPUK says now, makes me think that its process wasnt  quite  followed  properly  on the 
later call. I dont think, therefore, that it is safe to assume this process was followed properly,  
on a call recording we dont have.  
And Mr D has always said he asked a direct question about  costs, and was given the wrong 
information. As I said in my provisional  decision,  as the same person appears to have made  
a very similar mistake  on a later call, I think  its most likely that GPUKs salesman did make 
this mistake about the costs of a virtual  terminal compared to a physical terminal,  on the call 
he initially  had with Mr D. I still think that Mr D, on behalf of F, probably was given misleading 
information on the phone.  
For that reason,  I still think  the award I initially  proposed remains  appropriate in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that GPUK LLP (trading as Global Payments) must pay F £100 in 
compensation, in addition  to the £50 it has already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
F, to accept or reject my decision  before 10 November 2019.
Ref: DRN60581064Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6058106