K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about charges applied by IPS Pensions Limited (IPS) (trading as James 
Hay Partnership)  which he said were not notified  to him in advance.
background
Mr M complains that IPS had put up charges for his pension  without  telling him.
He said he didnt receive any notice of the increase. Even if he had the notice said to have 
been sent was generic so he could  not have known how the charges were increasing.  He 
wanted the additional fees refunded and to complain  that a full year of fees would be 
charged even if he moved his pension investments.
IPS said their agreement allowed them to increase charges. The terms and conditions  
required 30 days notice of any material change to terms and conditions (which  included 
changes to charges).  The required  notification  was sent by post to the last permanent  
residential address  recorded. This was a letter dated  22 March 2017 advising  of changes 
from 28 April 2017. There had been  no change in postal address and it could not be held 
responsible for the non arrival of the letter via the post. It did however say it would waive  the 
transfer out fee.
The investigator said hed seen a copy of the March 2017 letter.  It appeared to be correctly 
addressed. While the letter didnt stipulate the exact  change in the charges it provided 
contact details and how the charges would affect  the pension.  He thought theyd done 
enough to comply with the terms and conditions, had acted reasonably  and he wouldnt ask 
IPS to take further steps.
Mr M wasnt happy. He said IPS should  provide  proof of postage as there was no evidence  
the letter was ever sent to him. IPS replied and said the letter  was sent as part of a bulk 
mailing process so it wasnt  possible to provide  proof of postage.  A copy  letter was kept on 
file to show it had been sent to the correct address. The mailing company confirmed his 
address was included in the bulk mail sent out on 23 March 2017.  Mr M said this still didnt 
prove delivery. Mr M remained of the view that to satisfy  the terms of the contract IPS 
needed to make sure Mr M received  the notification. As they could not prove delivery he 
couldnt see how they could rely on it to increase their fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the original  trust deed  and signed  application form. I have reviewed the terms and 
conditions and the requirement  to give 30 days notice of changes. I need to consider 
whether the letter satisfies  the terms.
The letter is dated  and based on evidence form the mailing company posted more  than 30 
days in advance of the change. The letter appears  to be correctly  addressed  and uses  the 
same address as on the agreement. It isnt possible to be completely certain that the letter 
was sent or received. In such  circumstances we need to consider the available  evidence.  
Ref: DRN61833772Given the letter was correctly addresses and the confirmation from the bulk mailing company 
that it was in the bulk mailing, I think it is reasonable to assume that the letter was posted  to 
Mr M and his address.  
It is not possible to prove the letter was received by Mr M and he says he didnt receive  it. It 
is possible it was lost in the post,  but that isnt IPSs fault. It is clear that IPS took what  steps 
it needed to, to comply  with its terms and conditions. It is also clear these terms didnt 
require use of registered post nor the need to prove any notice was received. So I cant  
impose a requirement  that IPS needs  to prove the notice was received before it became 
effective. On balance  I think IPS did what it needed  to do.
I have considered that Mr M says the notice issued wasnt sufficiently clear for him to 
understand the impact on his charges. I note from the original  fee agreement  that the fees 
increased each  year in line with National  Average Earnings. So Mr M should  always have 
been expecting  an annual increase in charges from the start of his contract. 
The notice issued  in March 2017  is clear  that it is telling Mr M there  will be further  changes  to 
the charges on his SIPP. I say that because  this is what  the first sentence of the letter  says.  
It explained his options including to transfer away from IPS. It attached  a note with a detailed  
list of changes. It strongly encouraged taking  independent financial advice to asses  the 
impact on his pension  and the best future option for him.
Attached to the letter was an explanatory note mentioning a number of charge increases and 
the introduction  of new charges. It also outlined  options to transfer to another  IPS pension 
product or to another provider. I agree with Mr M that the note was generic and he would 
need to carefully  consider the note to be certain  of the exact  impact  on him. However I think 
the note provides a lot of information about  the changes and the options available.  So on 
balance I think that had he received the letter he wouldve been aware there would be an 
increase and couldve gathered more information  to determine the impact for him should  he 
need it.
I appreciate it is frustrating that Mr M says he didnt receive the letter  but I think IPS has 
done what it was required to do. So I cannot hold it responsible for the fact the letter  wasnt 
received. Had he received  the letter I also think it contained enough information to be clear  
there would be an increase and to enable him to find information  to asses  the impact  on him.
I also think the offer from IPS to allow Mr M to transfer without charge is reasonable. So 
while I am sorry to disappoint Mr M I cannot  uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183377