K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that a car she got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Billing Finance 
Ltd (Billing Finance)  is faulty. Although Billing Finance has offered to repair the car she 
would like to reject it.
background
Mrs R says she took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Billing Finance in October  2017.  
She says she had problems straight away with the car. Some  initial repairs  were  carried out 
but she says in March 2019 the car broke  completely.  She would now like to reject the car.
Billing Finance  said it had carried  out some repairs to the car when Mrs R first had problems. 
It had organised three independent inspection reports all of which identified problem, some 
likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale.  It said it offered Mrs R three 
opportunities to reject  the car but she declined these. And continued to use the car despite  
knowing it had faults. 
It said in May 2018 Mrs R confirmed she wished to reject the car but needed  time to find a 
new car.  It  added Mrs R continued to use car despite knowing it needed repairs.  And in 
October 2018 Mrs R then said she wanted the car repaired but didnt progress this. Finally in 
March 2019 it said Mrs R said she wanted to reject the car as it had broken down 
completely. Billing  Finance said it was hard to prove the vehicle wasnt fit for purpose given 
Mrs R had continued to use it driving more than 7,000 miles.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found that although some issues  with the car 
had been linked back to the point of sale that Mrs R had been given three opportunities to 
reject the car but hadnt done so. And she continued to use the car despite it needing 
repairs. He felt this would have contributed to further issues with the car. And that it would be 
difficult to identify if the car was now unfit for purpose due to issues identified  15 months 
earlier or due to continued use whilst needing repair.
Billing Finance  accepted this view but Mrs R didnt.  She said sufficient evidence  had been 
provided of the faults with the car to prove  it wasnt fit for purpose when she got it. That 
some of her delays in dealing with this had been  down  to health reasons for which she could 
provide evidence. And she had incurred multiple costs  as a result  of having the car such as 
the cost of tests,  car hire, diesel to take the car to various garages  and the finance 
agreement costs.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. So on that basis Mrs R 
asked for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mrs R had problems with her car from when she first got it. Billing 
Finance organised in total three independent inspections  in between December 2017  and 
April 2018. All of which confirmed issues some  of which were likely  to be present  or 
developing at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN65223422We expect vehicles to be fit for purpose when sold. If they arent, depending on the timing  
and the specific  issues, we expect repairs or rejection of the vehicle to be offered. We do 
however take into account the age and mileage of the vehicle. In this case Mrs R took out an 
agreement for a ten year old car that had over 100,000 miles on the clock.  Unfortunately 
used cars are likely  to develop faults and need repairs.
I think Billing Finance  has been entirely reasonable in it response. It correctly offered Mrs R 
the opportunity  to have repairs to her car or to reject in after the first independent inspection 
report in December 2017. This report  identified evidence  of a fuel leak and deterioration of 
the inner CVT gaiter. At this point Mrs R chose to have the car repaired.
As Mrs R then had further issues with the car Billing Finance organised a second 
independent inspection which identified problems with electronic parking  brake, the 
handbrake and the air suspension. It concluded  that problems with the handbrake and air 
suspension were  likely  to have been in an advanced  state at the point of sale. Again it 
offered either rejection  or repair and Mrs R chose the latter.
At this point it seems  Mrs R took the car to a third party that requested a diagnostic  test. This 
was done in March 2018. As a result of this Billing Finance organised a third independent 
inspection which confirmed the results of its first two reports.
At this point  April 2018 -Billing Finance felt the only sensible   option  was rejection of the 
car. 
As I then understand Mrs R asked Billing  Finance  to put matters  on hold whilst she 
considered refinance  options. I dont believe the faults identified  by that time were  not 
repaired. It then seems to have taken nearly  a year for Mrs R to come back to say she 
wanted to reject the car. This was in March  2019  when the engine failed and, according  to 
Mrs R, the car was then un useable.
During this time Mrs R seems  to have said she needed to keep the car and wanted  it to be 
repaired. But she didnt  respond to Billing  Finances request to bring the car in and provide 
evidence of any expenses  she incurred. It seems Billing Finance did try to progress this with 
Mrs R but was unable  to do so  for example it was unable to contact her on a scheduled 
call in November 2018. 
I appreciate Mrs R has told us she had some health  problems  which meant she couldnt  
progress dealing with the car. I accept that may explain  some  of the delay. But I dont 
believe that explains taking nearly  a year from when Billing Finance concluded rejection was 
the only sensible option in April 2018  to Mrs R then saying she wanted to reject  the car in 
March 2019. 
From what  I have  seen it seems Mrs R needed time to consider what  she was doing, 
identified a need to keep  her car, and only finally decided to progress  rejection  when the car 
broke down  completely
Its clear to me Mrs R had three clear opportunities to reject the car but chose not to do so. 
Instead, despite the problems with the car, she chose to continue  to use it until it finally 
broke down  in March  2019. I dont think its reasonable for Mrs R to have an open ended 
agreement to reject the car at any point. 
Ref: DRN65223423Im not sure if Mrs R carried out the repairs identified in the second independent  report. I 
dont believe  she did.  If thats  the case I think its reasonable  to say continuing to drive  the 
car knowing there were  problems is likely  to have made the problems worse. 
Taking all of this into account  I dont  think I can reasonably ask Billing Finance to now allow  
Mrs R to reject the car.
I appreciate MRs R has made some comments about costs she has incurred. Its unfortunate 
but Mrs R did buy a ten year old car with over 100,000 on the clock.  I think she might 
reasonably expect there to be some costs involved  in buying such  a car for example tests for 
the car and diesel to take the car to a garage  for repairs.
However Ive noted that in the information  Billing Finance gave us that in October  2018  when  
Mrs R told Billing  Finance she wanted  to reject the car it asked her to bring the car  in and to 
provide receipts  for any out of pocket expenses. So I think Mrs R did have an opportunity  
then to recoup  any reasonable costs  shed incurred. I dont believe she pursued  this as 
Billing Finance  was then unable to contact  Mrs R during  a scheduled phone call in 
November 2018  and then had no further contact until March  2019 when Mrs R said the car 
had totally broken down.
I dont think I can now reasonably ask Billing Finance to cover any of Mrs Rs costs.  I think  it 
would be hard to reasonably judge  how much  of these were  down to Mrs R continuing  to use 
a car that Billing Finance thought she shouldve rejected nearly  a year before she decided 
she wanted to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6522342