K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the handling  of claims under his mobile phone  insurance policy  
with Assurant General  Insurance Limited.
All references to Assurant  in this decision should be read as including  its claims- handling 
agents.
background
Mr Bs policy, provided as part of a package of benefits with his bank account, provides 
cover for the loss, theft, or accidental damage of his mobile phone.  
On 3 July 2018,  Mr B made a claim for a phone which was stolen. The claim was accepted  
and Assurant provided a replacement  phone. 
The next day, Mr B told Assurant the replacement phone had been stolen from his car. 
Assurant accepted this second claim and sent Mr B another replacement phone  on 
8 July 2018. The IMEI number for the second  replacement ended 5971.  
Mr B contacted Assurant  the following day to say the replacement phone  was not of 
satisfactory quality  he said there was damage  to the phone, paint coming off of the corners 
and a scratch to the screen.  Mr B provided  photographs of the damage and Assurant agreed 
to carry out a doorstep exchange of the phone for another of the same make and model.  
This was apparently  done on 11 July 2018 but Assurant says the phone which it collected 
from Mr B was not the same phone it had provided  to him  it was a different model and 
colour (it was the same make but the one returned to it was gold, whereas the one with IMEI 
5971 which should have been returned,  was black).  Assurant also says it was so badly 
damaged it couldnt  read the IMEI number.  Assurant therefore sent a pre-paid bag to Mr B 
so he could post the correct phone to it. Mr B disputes this and is adamant that he gave the 
courier the correct  make and model  phone. He says he gave it to the courier  unpackaged 
and the courier  must  have  swapped phones.  
Assurant told Mr B that if the correct phone was not provided to it, it would blacklist  the 
replacement phones (i.e. the one delivered to Mr B on 11 July 2018  and the one that was 
meant to have been returned to it). Mr B didnt respond and Assurant didnt blacklist  the 
phones.
On 21 August 2018, Mr B notified  Assurant  that the phone he had received  at the doorstep 
exchange was faulty. This phone was covered by a 12 month warranty, so Assurant agreed 
to repair  it. The phone  was repaired  and sent back to Mr B. 
On 12 November 2018, Mr B contacted Assurant to say the replacement delivered in August 
2018 was faulty again, as it was not turning on. Assurant agreed to repair it again. However, 
when it received the phone from Mr B it says the screen was smashed and the warranty on 
the phone  is voided as it is damaged. 
On 1 October 2018, Mr B made a further  claim for another mobile phone which he had 
bought a few days  before and which he said had been lost. Mr B chased the progress of this 
claim several times.  Eventually Assurant told Mr B that it would not proceed with this claim, 
until the phone IMEI number 5971 was returned  to it. 
Ref: DRN61543632Assurant says that Mr B is in possession of two phones, as a result of the earlier claims and 
it has received from him a phone of lesser value. It said it has therefore now barred the 
phone which should have been  returned  and we will not proceed  with this claim until the 
correct device has been returned  to it. 
Mr B is very unhappy with this and is adamant that it is not his fault that the wrong phone 
was received by Assurant. He gave the courier the correct phone  and it was not damaged  
when he sent it back to Assurant.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He considered that Assurant should proceed  
with the October  2018 claim for the lost phone, as it is unfair to hold this pending  the other 
issue. The investigator  did not however think it was unreasonable for Assurant not to repair 
the other phone under  the warranty. 
Mr B accepted the investigators assessment but Assurant did not. The matter has therefore 
been referred to me. 
Assurant says made a number of submissions, which Ive summarised  below: 
The courier would never know the contents of the package  which  is being  delivered.
Any phone being collected is placed in a sealed returns  bag which is pre-labelled  by 
the driver  in front of the consumer before it is then returned to its warehouse. 
The courier would have then returned the item to it in the returns bag to its 
warehouse. Items are signed  for in bulk at a regular daily delivery  timeslot.  Any staff 
that enter the warehouse have  to walk through a metal detector and any mobile 
phones on a staff member would have their IMEI checked to ensure that the IMEI on 
entry and exit remains the same. This therefore eliminates the possibility that the 
staff at our warehouse  may have  swapped the device.
It still has the packaging that was received back following Mr B's exchange. It is 
labelled correctly and has not been tampered  with, other than being  opened  on 
receipt. 
It is prepared to proceed with the October 2018 claim but any settlement would be 
less the value of the phone that should  have been  returned to it in July 2018, as it is 
entitled to re-coup the losses from the return of the incorrect  phone.  
Previous decisions from this service  confirm that if there  is evidence  to support that 
fraud may have  taken  place on a previous claim, it is entitled to retrieve  the money  
owed to us. 
The Insurance Act 2015, also states  the following  where there has been  a fraudulent 
claim, an insurer may recover its outlay.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the photographs of the phone sent back  to Assurant in November 2018, I 
am satisfied  that the damage is consistent with it having been dropped or impacted in some 
way and it was not provided to Mr B in this condition. Mr B has said that it was not damaged  
when he sent it to Assurant and it must have therefore been damaged  in transit. There  is no 
Ref: DRN61543633evidence of any corresponding damage  to the packaging and it was apparently  packaged 
correctly. I am not therefore persuaded it was damaged  in transit  back to Assurant. Given 
the damage, I do not consider it is unreasonable for Assurant to refuse to repair this phone  
under the warranty.  And although Mr Bs policy covers accidental  damage (subject to terms 
and conditions)  Mr B did not say it had been  accidentally damaged. I do not therefore intend 
to ask Assurant to do anything further  in regard to this part of the complaint. 
With regard to the October  2018 claim, I do not agree  that Assurant is entitled to refuse  to 
proceed with this claim on the basis of the dispute around the July 2018  exchange.  I will 
explain why.
It does seem to me more likely  than not that Mr B gave the wrong phone to the courier.  He 
handed over the phone and the procedure is that it is then put in a bag, sealed  and labelled 
in front of him by the courier. I note the security arrangements Assurant says it has once a 
delivery is made to the warehouse, but it is possible for packages to be stolen/tampered  with 
before delivery.  However, overall I think it is unlikely that it was switched by the courier  
before delivery  at Assurants warehouse, as the packaging  appears not to have been 
tampered with. Although,  I also bear in mind  that Assurant seem not to made any enquiries  
with the couriers  about the issue and I think it would have been  reasonable for it to do so. 
I also note that during  a phone call to discuss the exchange,  Mr B asked if he could be given 
a gold phone  as a replacement but was told it would have to be the same colour, make and 
model as the phone being collected (which  should  have been  black). Assurant therefore 
says it is more than coincidence  that it received a gold phone  from Mr B, as he was hoping 
to receive a gold device  in return by the courier.  Whilst  not conclusive,  this does cast some  
doubt.  
However, notwithstanding my opinion about  whether the correct  phone was provided  to  
Assurant in July 2018, I do not consider that it is entitled to hold the October 2018 claim or to 
seek any recovery of its losses from the settlement of that claim. 
Assurant has made  reference  to remedies available to insurers where there  have been  
fraudulent claims.  I am not aware  that it has directly put it to Mr B that it considers that the 
fact it received the wrong phone back in July 2018 was due to him fraudulently  sending  the 
wrong device. 
Where a fraudulent  claim has been made, or a policyholder makes a fraudulent  
representation during  a claim,  insurers have  several remedies available  to them.  They do not 
have to meet that claim and are entitled to recoup any payments made in relation to that 
claim. Insurers are also entitled to terminate the insurance contract from the date of the 
fraudulent act. They are not allowed, however, to recoup any losses  from other genuine 
claims. 
As stated, Assurant has not put its allegation  of fraud to Mr B and fraud has not been 
established. Assurant  has not barred the phone it provided to Mr B in the exchange and 
Assurant did not cancel the contract.  It chose instead to continue  with the contract; affirming 
it by dealing with the August 2018 repairs  to the phone it provided to Mr B in the July 2018 
exchange. 
As Assurant  chose to continue with the policy and did not seek to establish  any fraud 
allegation, it is not reasonable for it to seek to recoup its alleged losses  from a future claim. 
Ref: DRN61543634Assurant should  therefore proceed  with the October  2018 claim, in accordance with the 
policy terms but without  deduction of any loss in relation to the value of the phone which 
should have been returned  to it in July 2018.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited  in part and require it to 
proceed with the October 2018  claim, in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy, and without making any deduction  from any settlement due to Mr B in relation to the 
value of the phone which should have been  returned  to it in July 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6154363