K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that ReAssure Limiteds  predecessor company sold them  a whole of 
life policy, in 1986, on the basis  that the sum assured was guaranteed  for life i.e. that this 
sum would be paid out on death. But in 2016 ReAssure said they needed to increase  the 
premiums or agree to a reduction in the sum assured, otherwise the policy  would expire 
without value. This happened  in 2018.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
He said Mr and Mrs Ss policy was a reviewable  one which  meant the premiums would be 
reviewed after the first 10 years when  the premiums and/ or the sum assured could be 
adjusted. This meant that ReAssure had not done anything wrong.
He acknowledged  there was limited  documentation  from the time of the sale, partly due to 
the passage of time and partly due to the far fewer regulatory requirements in place back  
then. But the information still available indicated that Mr and Mrs S had been warned  that 
that the premiums  would reviewable along with the sum assured.
Mr and Mrs S did not, agree, and said:
The advisor never explained that the policy/premiums were reviewable  and this was 
not highlighted in the documentation
ReAssures explanation did not address their concerns and its comments  about 
investment returns does not make sense
They were not concerned with the surrender value as they only ever bought this 
policy to ensure the sum assured was paid on the others  death
The original advisor has confirmed that he told them the original  sum assured was 
guaranteed for life
As this final point had not been explored by the investigator I wrote  to Mr and Mrs Ss 
alleged original advisor (Mr H) to clarify  his recollections of the meeting in question. He said 
he may well have told Mr and Mrs S that the sum assured was guaranteed for life given  he  
thought this was the case. He understood that any reviews could only affect the surrender 
value and was not aware  the sum assured could be reduced to nothing.
ReAssure checked  its records  and said that another person  was the named,  registered 
advisor for this sale. It provided a computer  screen to show this. It also said it had carried  out 
a name  check for Mr H and nothing  had come up, even  though  this database  ran from the 
early 80s.
Mr H responded saying he had worked  for Crown  Life in the 80s at its Croydon branch and 
had sold this policy to Mr and Mrs H. He recognised  the named individual  recorded as the 
sales advisor on ReAssures database,  but couldnt  recall whether this person had 
accompanied him on this particular sale.
ReAssure also said:
Mr H clearly is, and was at the time of advice, a friend of Mr and Mrs S and so one 
cannot be sure his evidence  is unbiased  or impartial
Ref: DRN69923492From  the tone of his email it is also clear that he, unsurprisingly, had a limited 
recollection of what was discussed 33 years  ago
So it would be completely unfair  to rely on the words of a long-standing friend  about  
what may have been said three  decades ago as opposed  to the clear written 
explanation in the documentation, particularly as it has not even been established 
that he was at the meeting or was ever employed by Crown  Life
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that it is difficult to rely on recollections  from 30 years ago when seeking to decide 
what was and what wasnt said during an advice meeting. It is for this reason  that one often 
concludes that there  isnt sufficient, persuasive  to uphold a complaint  solely  on the basis of 
either partys recollections.
In this case while I dont  question Mr and Mrs Ss recollections of what they were  told I dont 
think there is sufficient, persuasive  evidence  to uphold  their complaint for a variety  of 
reasons.
Firstly, as Reassure said, the documentation  would have made clear, or at least fairly clear, 
that the sum assured was not guaranteed  for life but would be reviewed in the light of 
investment returns.  
That said,  Ive no doubt that many customers  are heavily influenced by what  they are told by 
the advisor or what, at least, they come away thinking theyve been told. So I accept that Mr 
and Mrs S may well have assumed, until recently, that their sum assured  was guaranteed for 
life despite what  the paperwork stated. But I must consider whether the available  evidence 
clearly indicates that the advisor misled  them about this. 
In this case there is the added difficulty that there appears to have  been  two representatives 
from Crown Life present at the time. The fact that ReAssures record shows that Mr H was 
not the registered advisor on this sale does not, in my view, prove he was not present or that 
he did not take the lead in the sales  conversation with Mr and Mrs S. 
From whats  been said, I have no doubt that Mr H was employed  by Crown Life and initiated 
the sales meeting  with Mr and Mrs S. I also dont doubt that he had, as he says, limited 
training and may not have  fully understood how these  policies  worked. 
But, given the passage of time, I share  ReAssures  reservations about relying on his partial 
recollection of the sales meeting. Mr H did not, for example, make any mention of the fact 
that he was apparently not a regulated advisor  at this point or that he was accompanied by a 
senior sales representative who was recorded as the advisor on this sale. After  this 
information came to light he admitted he could not recall  whether this colleague was even 
present at the time.  This, in my view, casts some doubt on the complete reliability of his 
recollection about what he told Mr and Mrs S about  the sum assured being guaranteed.
So for the reasons outlined above I dont believe there is sufficient evidence to safely 
conclude that ReAssures predecessor business  clearly misled Mr and Mrs S about the 
reviewability issue.
Ref: DRN69923493my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6992349