K822xcomplaint
Mr T says he was given incorrect information  about  the insurance  on the car he was 
acquiring on a PCP from Ald Automotive Limited.
background 
Mr T wanted to buy a car for his son and his sons partner. His plan was to take out the 
finance to fund the car in his name  but to insure  it in the name of his son and sons partner to 
take advantage of their existing No Claims Bonus.
Mr T says that during the pre-contract discussions,  he explained this to the dealership who 
responded to say this shouldnt be a problem provided he was also the named driver. Mr T 
says, on that basis, he agreed to go ahead,  making use of a Personal  Contract  Plan (PCP) 
with Ald.
But when he went to collect  the car and sign the documents, he saw the PCP required him 
to be registered  as the owner and for the insurance to be in his name.  He says he was then 
told this wouldnt be a problem but on checking, he found this wasnt the case.
Mr T says hed made it very clear how he wanted to insure the car, and why, and this was 
fundamental to his decision to go ahead.  He says he was misled and given the wrong  
information but by the time he found out, it was too late to change his mind. The car was 
delivered on 3 April and he was due to go abroad the following day for several  weeks  so 
there wasnt time to make other  arrangements. The only option  would have been to cancel 
but then his son would have had to continue to use a hire car which  would in itself have been 
expensive. He feels he had no alternative  but to go ahead. 
However he says insuring in his name  has increased the premium  by almost £600  a year, 
which over the life of the PCP amounts to £2,400. He says its not fair thats hes out of 
pocket because of the misinformation  given to him by the dealer and feels  Ald should 
reimburse this.
Ald accepted that Mr T had been  given  incorrect information and offered him £150 for the 
inconvenience this had caused. However  it said hed known the correct position before hed 
signed the contract so it didnt agree to pay the additional premium.
Our investigator felt the £150 was reasonable. While  she could see Mr T hadnt found out 
until he went to sign the contract, it was clear hed known  about the problem  before  he 
signed so hed still had the option  at that point to change his mind. He hadnt  done so and 
for that reason she didnt feel it was reasonable to ask Ald to make up the difference  in the 
premiums.
Mr T disagreed and said hed had no choice but to go ahead  at that point. This didnt take 
away from the fact hed been misled  about  the insurance and the contract. He felt £150 
wasnt sufficient for this or for the additional costs  hed now have to pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking Ald to 
pay the additional insurance  premiums  as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN60224062Mr T was acquiring this car with the benefit of a PCP with ALD. Under the relevant  legislation 
(Section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974) ALD is responsible for negotiations conducted 
by the dealership in connection with arranging  Mr Ts finance with ALD,  although the 
dealership continues to be responsible in its own right as well. For the purposes of section  
56, negotiations began  when Mr T entered into communications with the dealership and 
include any representations  made  by them to Mr T before he entered  into the agreement.
I can understand why Mr Ts feels so disappointed by whats  happened. Hed specifically told 
the dealership  of his intentions with regard to the insurance but it was only when he went to 
sign the document he found out this wasnt possible and hed need to take out the insurance 
in his name.
Ive seen Mr T says he couldnt change  the contract  with Ald so he either had to change  the 
insurance or not sign the contact, which would  in turn, have incurred  other costs. 
Understandably he didnt feel either  option was what he wanted.
Having said that I have to take into account that Mr T was aware of the problem before he 
signed the contract and he had a choice at that point  to go ahead  with the contract  as it 
stood, knowing what that would mean,  or to look for another  option,  such as alternative 
finance. As Mr T has, the clause was a standard term in a PCP contract  so even  if hed been  
told sooner hed still have had to decide whether to use this method of funding and accept 
the insurance requirement or look for another option. In other words if hed been told sooner 
he have had more  time to make that choice  but the choice  would  have remained the same. 
Ive seen Mr Ts comments on why he felt he had no choice but to go ahead  but while  I 
accept it may have been difficult  to walk away  and make other arrangements,  if Mr T was 
fundamentally unhappy with the terms and conditions, then that was a choice.  
Instead Mr T signed the contract and in doing so he indicated that he understood and 
accepted the terms, including the insurance. For that reason  I dont  think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Ald to pay the difference in the insurance premium.  
It has however offered  Mr T £150  for the incorrect  information he was given and the 
inconvenience this caused. I think thats reasonable and in line with what  I would have 
awarded for this type of complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and direct ALD Automotive  Limited  
to pay Mr T £150 for his trouble and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6022406