K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled her travel insurance  
claim. 
My references to UKI include its agents. 
background
Mrs T contacted her travel insurer UKI while she was abroad. She explained shed 
developed neck  problems after the car she was travelling in hit a pothole. She didnt return  to 
the UK on her originally  booked flight, explaining  the doctor shed seen had advised her to 
rest. She made a claim to UKI for her expenses. 
UKI didnt  pay Mrs Ts claim. It didnt think there  was enough  evidence  to show  that Mrs Ts 
neck problems were  covered under the emergency medical expenses section of the policy.  
Mrs T complained about UKIs decision and its handling of her claim. She said it didnt give 
her assistance when shed needed it. UKI had said her claim was covered and then reversed 
its decision. She came to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary,  she said:
UKI had reasonably declined the claim. Mrs Ts policy covered her for emergency 
medical costs. The medical  evidence didnt  indicate that her neck condition  (cervical 
spondylosis) was due a car related incident,  and suggested it was work  related. The 
doctors recommended treatment is considered  as an alternative treatment, which  
isnt covered under the policy.  The doctor specified rest but didnt say it was 
medically necessary  for Mrs T to remain abroad, even though  Mrs T had concerns 
about the condition of the roads for the journey to the airport. 
UKI was entitled to ask Mrs T for information  about the car incident and her fitness to 
fly, and didnt delay  its decision  when it saw her doctors discharge report. Mrs T said 
she didnt feel well enough to return to the UK or obtain further medical evidence, but 
UKI was entitled to say she could return on her original flight  in the absence  of 
medical evidence  saying otherwise. It was reasonable  for UKI to agree to get further 
medical evidence  directly, and to expect this to be on headed or stamped, signed  
paper. This is a usual requirement for any doctor report, and wasnt unusual.  UKI 
fairly apologised for any distress  caused  by a call with Mrs T when it discussed this 
requirement. 
UKI was entitled to ask Mrs T for a GP report,  to check  the claim wasnt for a pre-
existing medical condition which is excluded under the policys terms. It reasonably 
suggested Mrs T could provide verbal consent as she couldnt send a written,  signed 
authority. It could fairly ask for evidence for a change in accommodation. 
UKI properly offered  to arrange an upgrade to business  class for Mrs T and her 
husbands original  return flight, while making it clear that shed need medical 
evidence if they needed to extend  their stay.  
It took more than two weeks for UKI to make a decision about  cover,  but it made its 
decision within 2 days of receiving  Mrs Ts GPs  report. This wasnt  an excessive 
Ref: DRN61915282time after it received  the information it was entitled  to ask for. Mrs T said she didnt, in 
any event, feel well enough to fly back to the UK so the time taken to confirm cover 
didnt affect Mrs Ts decision about  returning  on her original flight. 
UKI told Mrs T that her claim was covered. This was an error, as it declined  her 
claim. This decision would  always have caused upset. But Mrs T had a loss of 
expectation which went beyond  that upset. Although Mrs T hadnt said shed 
changed her position  based  on that wrong  information she did have a loss of 
expectation. It was fair that UKI pay her £100  compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Neither Mrs T nor UKI accepted our adjudicators recommendation. Mrs T wasnt satisfied 
with the outcome and wanted  to take the complaint  further.
UKI didnt  agree it should pay £100 compensation for one days loss of expectation. It has 
already apologised to Mrs T for its error, and it thought this was enough given the timescale 
to correct its error. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators findings for broadly  the same reasons as shes given. I will 
focus on what I consider  to be the central points and explain why I agree UKI should pay 
Mrs T £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ive been sorry  to read that Mrs T had neck  problems while abroad, and its clear she felt 
unwell. But as our adjudicator has explained UKI was entitled to see medical  evidence  to 
confirm that shed suffered any injury while travelling, which  meant she couldnt  return  on her 
original flight. 
Under the policy UKI would pay the additional expenses  incurred  in Mrs T extending her trip 
beyond her planned return date only if the claim was valid under the policy  terms and, if so, it 
was medically necessary  for her to remain abroad.
I think UKI fairly assessed  the claim. It was entitled  to wait for the GPs  medical report  before 
it made its decision about whether the claim was covered under the policy terms. I think it 
made it clear  to Mrs T that if she remained abroad  it would pay her expenses only if the 
claim was covered under the policy  terms. 
Not all medical treatment is covered under  the policy, which  explains that it covers only 
emergency medical treatment. UKI made a fair decision  based  on the medical evidence 
provided to it that Mrs Ts injury wasnt covered under the policy  terms. The evidence didnt 
suggest that the injury occurred due a car related incident while  Mrs T was abroad,  the 
recommended treatment wasnt covered under the policy  and it didnt suggest Mrs T was 
unfit to fly home on her original flight.  
I think it was very unfortunate that UKI wrongly  indicated that the claim  was covered under 
the policy terms. I appreciate it apologised to Mrs T for its error, and corrected this the 
following day. Our adjudicator did say that the error didnt prejudice Mrs T in that she didnt 
base any decisions on UKIs mistaken confirmation that she was covered under the policy. 
Ref: DRN61915283But this isnt to say there wasnt any impact on Mrs T. I agree with our adjudicator  that the 
loss of expectation  even  for around 24 hours   was substantial  enough  to merit a payment 
of compensation.  Mrs T had been waiting over two weeks for a decision about cover.  That 
delay wasnt UKIs responsibility for the reasons Ive explained. But even  so shed have felt a 
great deal of relief  to be told that her claim was covered. I think the disappointment  and 
upset to be told that UKI wasnt  covering  her claim means she did suffer  a loss of 
expectation, as well as distress and inconvenience. I think £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. Ive taken  into account the timescale,  and if it had been a longer period of 
time before UKI corrected  its error then its likely Id have awarded a higher amount  of 
compensation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint but only in part. I require 
U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs T £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs T accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  until the date of payment at 8% per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs T how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6191528