K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr M complain  about Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) regarding repairs 
to their property, and poor customer service following a claim under their building  insurance 
policy. Mrs and Mr M want to be properly compensated for the disruption they suffered as a 
result of the poor quality repairs. 
background 
In May 2018, Mrs and Mr M discovered a leak in their home.  
They contacted their insurer, Legal  & General. A surveyor attended their home and tracked 
the leak to a dishwasher. The surveyor thought that the leak had been ongoing for a period 
of time as it had caused substantial damage  under  the kitchen  floor and had penetrated into 
the lounge. 
Legal & General instructed contractors to strip out the relevant  floor coverings and fittings, 
and to begin drying the property. 
This was successfully completed  but issues began arise when the contractor appointed by 
Legal & General began to replace the kitchen flooring. 
When the original  flooring  was removed, it left adhesive glue exposed. This wasnt removed 
by the contractors immediately, making  a hazard for Mrs and Mr M. 
A film covering was then placed over this which had to be removed,  and the contractor laid a 
screed product  on the floor. This reacted with the existing bitumen covering and caused the 
screed to have a bumpy finish and to crack in places. 
The contractors also put some of Mrs and Mr Ms furniture outside where it was damaged  by 
rain, and damaged  some  paving slabs by walking  the flooring product over them. 
Mrs and Mr M raised their concerns with Legal  & General. Legal & General arranged  for Mrs 
and Mr M to be compensated for the damage  caused by the contractors. 
Legal & General then appointed a replacement contractor to continue with the repairs.  This 
second contractor  made  mistakes,  including ordering insufficient laminate flooring.
During the course of repairs, Mrs and Mr M had to move  out of their home for a period of 
around 5 weeks, due to the disruption.  L&G provided them with alternative accommodation 
as per their insurance policy. During  this time, Mrs M continued to attend the property  
regularly to check on the work. 
Mrs and Mr M complained to Legal & General in August 2018. Legal & General responded to 
Mrs and Mr M in September 2018. It upheld their complaint and acknowledged that they had 
received a poor service from the contractors, and had faced difficulties in communicating  
with contractors. Legal & General offered them £250  compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mrs and Mr M were  not happy  with this response  and contacted us. 
Ref: DRN67077992After Mrs and Mr M contacted us, Legal  & General  increased its offer of compensation to 
£500. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into Mrs and Mr Ms concerns and set out their view to 
the parties. This was that it was not disputed  that Legal & General had provided  a poor 
service, but the issue was in the appropriate  amount of compensation. The investigator 
considered that the offer from Legal & General was not sufficient and recommended that it 
be increased to £700  compensation.  
Legal & General accepted  this view, but Mrs and Mr M did not. They  asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can very much appreciate the disruption  that Mrs and Mr M have suffered, on review of the 
photographs and information that they have provided it is clear that the repairs took up a 
considerable amount of Mrs and Mr Ms time and disrupted their family home for an 
extended period.  
They have explained that Mrs M has a disability,  and Mr M suffers  from health problems so 
they were not able to remain in the property when floor surfaces were uneven and there 
were strong chemicals being used. 
Mrs and Mr M were  in alternative accommodation  for around five weeks,  and had to travel 
back to their home frequently to check on progress and the work which had been done. They 
also report that the stress from the works caused strain in their relationship. 
I fully appreciate that this was a difficult and stressful time for them. 
Claims for damage from an escape of water generally take quite a long time to resolve  and 
repairs can be extensive. It follows that there can be a high-level of disruption to 
policyholders and stress in coping  with this. I have to note, that even if the repairs  had been 
carried out swiftly and to a high standard,  Mr and Mrs M would have suffered a degree  of 
disruption. 
I do, however,  completely accept that issues such as damage to other items, repairs needing 
to be repeated and not being  able to contact the contractors will have made  the claim 
process take longer and become more stressful that it needed to be. 
I am pleased  that Legal & General arranged to cover the costs of the damaged items and 
required cleaning, and that the work was ultimately completed by November 2018, allowing 
Mrs and Mr M to return to normal.  
Mrs and Mr M had expected the work  to take around  five weeks, but it ended  up taking much 
longer, and had the impact upon Mrs and Mr Ms life as described above. 
I agree  with the investigators recommendation that £700 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate. Whilst I understand it may not seem sufficient to Mrs and Mr 
M, I am satisfied  that the sum is in line with other awards that we would make  in similar 
Ref: DRN67077993circumstances and is proportionate to the amount of additional stress and inconvenience  
they suffered  due to the failings in service by L&G and its contractors. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  view and direct Legal & General  Insurance Limited to 
pay a total of £700 compensation for distress  and inconvenience to Mrs and Mr M. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I direct  
Legal & General Insurance Limited  to pay to Mrs and Mr M a total of £700  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. This should include any sums already paid to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6707799