K820x#14complaint
Ms E has complained that Barclays Insurance Services Company Limited failed to add a 
necklace to the specified  items insured under her home insurance policy.  
background
Ms E has explained that she called Barclays at some point in 2016 to add a necklace that 
cost £3,350 and two bicycles to her policy. She lost the necklace late in 2017 and contacted 
Barclays to make a claim from the insurance  company who provide the policy.  Barclays  told 
her on behalf the insurer  the necklace  wasnt specified on the policy,  so the maximum 
amount payable was the limit for unspecified  personal belongings of £2,500. The insurance 
company eventually paid this amount in settlement  of the claim.  Barclays  also arranged a 
refund of the premium Ms E had paid for an item that she claimed for some  time previously, 
which the insurer had paid out for, but had never  been removed from the list of specified 
items. 
Ms E complained to Barclays, as she was sure shed called them  and asked them to add the 
necklace. Barclays checked their call records, but couldnt trace a call from Ms E in the 
period in question. So, they didnt uphold  her complaint. 
Ms E came  to us and one of our investigators  reviewed  her complaint. He didnt think there  
was enough evidence to show Barclays had failed to add the necklace despite being  asked  
to do so. In view of this, he didnt think Ms Es complaint  should  be upheld.  
Ms E asked for an ombudsmans decision.  I reviewed all the evidence and telephoned  her to 
explain why I didnt  think her complaint should  be upheld. She still thinks Barclays  made a 
mistake and has asked me to provide  this final decision, as shes entitled  to one under our 
process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
I appreciate Ms E remembers calling Barclays to add the necklace and the bicycles. But 
these werent added in 2016  and still werent  shown on the schedule  Barclays sent out prior 
to Ms Es policy being renewed in April 2017. And Barclays  has told us theyve checked their 
call records and theres no record of Ms E calling in 2016. Theyve also provided  a copy  of a 
system note showing the renewal documents were sent to Ms Es address in March 2017.  
Ms E has  understandably  been unable to provide her own record  of the call, as its so 
long after the time she made it and shes not sure which number  she made it from. 
So, Barclays  have provided strong  evidence to demonstrate Ms E didnt call them and they 
can show its most likely she received the renewal notice and didnt query the fact the 
necklace and bicycles hadnt been added.  And I think this means theres not strong  enough 
evidence to show Barclays made a mistake  and failed to add the necklace despite  Ms E 
asking them to do so. In the circumstances,  I dont think its appropriate for me to uphold 
Ms Es complaint and make Barclays compensate her for the difference  between  whats due 
from the insurer and what shed have got it the necklace had been listed as a specified 
personal belonging.   
Ref: DRN66589402my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Es complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6658940