K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the communication and level of service Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) 
provided in relation to a chargeback.
background
Mr B called Halifax on 8 August 2018  to request a chargeback for amounts totalling £462.  
During this call, Mr B said he was told hed receive a call from Halifax about his request  by 
15 August. Halifax didnt call him by this date. It emailed him on 17 August to ask for more 
information about his chargeback request. 
Mr B said hed called in on 19 August to request an update and was told hed receive a call 
the following  day. But Halifax didnt call him.
Mr B was unhappy with the service hed received so made  a complaint. Halifax called him on 
29 August to discuss Mr Bs concerns but it wasnt a convenient time to talk and he asked for 
a call back later that same  day. This didnt  happen, so Mr B called in again  on 31 August. He 
was told the case-handler would call back the same day but this also didnt happen.
The case-handler called Mr B on 3 September 2018  and his card was refunded  on that day 
too. 
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong in relation to the timescales  involved  in the 
chargeback. But it agreed  that it had provided poor service by promising to call back  and 
then not doing so. It paid him £50 to say sorry for this. It also paid him £6 to cover the cost of 
the calls he had to make. But Mr B thinks Halifax should pay £150  to compensate him for 
what happened.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She thought the chargeback  had been completed 
in a reasonable timeframe.  But she agreed  that Halifax had done something wrong by saying 
it would  call Mr B and then failing to do so on more  than one occasion.  She felt that the total 
of £56 in compensation was fair. Mr B disagreed and said hed been very worried about the 
outcome of the chargeback. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr B, I wont be asking Halifax to do 
anything further   Ill explain why. 
I recognise that Mr B was very concerned about whether the chargeback was going to be 
successful. So it was important to him to receive  calls when Halifax  told him he would. 
Halifax explained that its not always possible to meet its intended timescales if volumes  are 
high. And the case-handler explained that it isnt always possible for her to return  calls on a 
particular day as she works on an inbound  call line. Halifax  has acknowledged it shouldve  
provided better service  here.
Ref: DRN62098802I note that Halifax  emailed Mr B for more information, rather  than calling him on 17 August. 
But Halifax  said it had advised Mr B of a 7-15 day timeframe for a call back.  So there was 
some communication within this timeframe even if wasnt via Mr Bs preferred method of 
contact. Theres some discrepancy around whether  Mr B was promised a call back by 
15 August or within 7-15 days.  But, regardless,  I think that things couldve gone better 
generally and Halifax shouldve made  it clearer to Mr B that while it hoped to call him back 
by a certain time,  this might not possible.  And it should have told him it would contact him 
rather than saying it would call him. 
I also note Mr B didnt receive calls on 20 August or 29 August as hed expected to. It would 
appear that on one of these occasions, Halifax had explained that it would make every 
effort to call back later that day, rather than saying  it would. But Halifax acknowledges its 
made mistakes and has apologised to Mr B for these.
But, ultimately, the chargeback  the reason  for Mr Bs calls  was dealt with in what  I would 
consider to be a reasonable  timeframe. It took less than 30 days. I cant see that Mr B has 
lost out financially as a result  of what Halifax did wrong. And, while  it didnt call back when it 
said it would, I dont  think the delays in contacting Mr B were  excessive.  But its apologised 
and offered compensation for its mistakes.
I think Halifax was right to award compensation as it couldve communicated  better  with 
Mr B. But I think  that £50 plus £6 for the cost of the calls is a fair reflection of what  went  
wrong here.  I dont  think it would  be fair or reasonable  to ask it to offer anything  further.  And I 
note it has already sent this compensation to Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6209880