K822xcomplaint
Mr Ks complaint is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) registered  a 
default on his credit file and that the debt has since been passed  to a debt recovery agent.
background 
Mr K fell behind in his repayments to Halifax, which meant that his account was sent to 
recoveries and a default applied. Thereafter, his account was passed to a debt recovery  
agent.
Mr K was unhappy with both the default, and the referral to the debt recovery agents. So he 
complained to Halifax. 
Halifax apologised in its final response  for sending  the default notice letter to the incorrect  
address. It offered Mr K £150 compensation for this and agreed to remove the default  if he 
repaid the debt in full by 1 November 2018.  
Mr K declined this offer of redress and didnt repay the money in time.  So the default 
remained on his credit file.
Halifax also accepted  Mr K was contacted in error by debt recovery agents when his account  
was in fact on hold. So it offered an additional  £30 compensation  for this, which  was also 
declined. 
To date, no further payments have been  made towards the debt and the default remains  in 
place. 
As matters couldnt be resolved with Halifax, Mr K asked our service  to become involved.
Our investigator looked into matters, and felt the complaint should be partly  upheld. He said:
Halifax accepted  it sent a demand  letter in March 2018 to the wrong address and that 
complaint was being dealt  with separately. As Mr K didnt  receive that letter  it wrote  
to him again  in September  2018 - giving him 60 days to pay the full balance due. This 
put him back in the same position he would have been in had he received  the original 
letter. And as he didnt pay the amount due by the 1 November 2018 deadline, 
Halifax was entitled to register the default.
Halifax didnt do anything wrong assigning the debt to a debt collection agency. It 
was entitled to do so. But it did make a mistake when it didnt tell it that it had put the 
account on hold.  Being chased for payment  when an arrangement  was in place 
would have added to Mr Ks stress. Halifaxs offer of £30 compensation wasnt 
enough. It should pay him £100. 
Mr K didnt think £100 compensation was enough.  So he asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62927592Having done so, I can see why Mr Ks upset at the mistakes Halifax  made.  A demand  letter  
is significant, and should have gone  to the correct address. And being pursued by collection 
agents when on a repayment  plan must  have been  distressing. 
I understand that not only does Mr K not accept  the additional £100 thats been offered, but 
hes also unhappy with the default on his credit file. 
I cant say that the defaults been applied incorrectly. Its a true and accurate representation 
of how Mr K managed his account, and Halifax was entitled, and indeed right, to record it. 
Halifaxs only mistake was sending  the demand letter to the incorrect  address, so that Mr K 
wasnt aware that a default was imminent. Which is a matter  thats  since  resolved. 
So Im not going to ask Halifax to remove the default  
On the matter of compensation, Im aware  that via litigation Mr Ks received a payment from 
Halifax in respect of some cross-over  matters with this complaint. 
I can also clarify that Halifaxs current offer to settle  is actually £180, and not £100.  This has 
been discussed with Mr K prior to me writing this decision, but the offer hasnt been  
accepted.
Having looked  at all thats happened, I can see that Halifax made more than one mistake.  
But I cant say Ive seen  that it acted with malice or recklessness. Ive also seen that when it 
was made  aware  of these errors, it took reasonable steps to sort them out in a timely way. 
Im sorry  Mr Ks had a poor experience. But my role is to look at all the evidence and reach a 
decision thats fair to both parties.  
With this in mind, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Halifax to increase the current  
settlement offer of £180. I think  its enough  to make  up for whats  happened  here.  To be 
clear, our service is an informal alternative  to the courts. Our awards tend to me more  
modest than what a court might award. And Im satisfied that the £180 recommended here is 
in line with similar cases.
So I wont  be asking Halifax to remove the default or increase its offer. Its now for Mr K to 
decide whether  to accept the £180  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) to 
increase its offer of settlement. Its now for Mr K to decide whether to accept  the £180 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6292759