K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited lent him money  irresponsibly because  
it failed to carry out proper affordability checks before his loans were agreed.
background
Mr S entered into 8 loan agreements with Provident between July 2013 and January 2018. 
Mr S says that at the time he took out the loans he had a number  of debts elsewhere. He 
doesnt feel that Provident carried out sufficient checks to make sure he could afford the loan 
repayments. Mr S says that if Provident  had looked  at his credit  file it would have been clear 
that the loans  werent affordable. Mr S wants the interest hes paid on the loans refunded.
In its final response Provident  said that at the time when Mr S applied for the loans the 
information he provided showed  that he had sufficient disposable income to make  the loan 
repayments.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Providents response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the case  and concluded that before approving  Mr Ss loans 
Provident had carried out reasonable and proportionate  checks. The investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what 
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided. 
When Mr S applied  for his loans  he provided Provident with information about his income 
and outgoings  and signed documents to say that the information  provided was a true 
reflection of his financial circumstances. Provident was entitled  to rely on the information  
provided by Mr S.
Provident has said that it carried out an affordability assessment which included looking at 
credit bureau data and Mr Ss payment history.  Based on this, as well as the information  
provided by Mr S, Provident  determined that the loans were  affordable.
Ive looked at the credit file records which Mr S has provided. These show  that Mr S had 
3 defaults, one from 2013, one from 2015 and one from 2016. Taking into account the dates 
when Mr S applied  for the loans, I dont think the defaults meant that Provident should not 
have provided  Mr S with the loans. The fact that Mr S had defaulted on 3 accounts, two of 
which were telecommunications accounts, doesnt  necessarily mean that he was likely to 
default on the Provident loans. The defaults  are only one of many factors  which Provident 
will have taken into account  in deciding whether to provide the loans.
I appreciate that Mr S has said that there are some  credit  agreements which  appear  to be 
missing from his credit file. He hasnt  said when he took them out. Nor has he provided any 
Ref: DRN69936882information from other credit reference  agencies to show that the agreements  existed. Even  
if Mr S held other credit accounts, because these dont appear on his credit  file this isnt 
information which would have been available to Provident at the time when he applied for 
the loans.
Ive also looked  at Mr Ss payment history  and I can see that for most of the time Mr S kept 
up to date with the repayments on his loans. There were some missed payments but Mr S 
paid more the following month  to bring the account up to date. Overall Im satisfied that Mr S 
managed his accounts well and that his repayments  were up to date. I think  its more  likely 
than not that the loans were affordable because theres no evidence that Mr S was 
struggling to repay the loans.
I appreciate that Mr S has said that his father  made payments on his behalf for the first few 
months. Provident has said that it wasnt aware that Mr Ss father was making  payments on 
his behalf. And in any event, the affordability checks carried out by Provident showed  that 
Mr S had sufficient disposable  income to make the repayments himself.
I understand that Mr Ss circumstances have changed and that hes now having difficulty 
repaying the loan.  However, I need to decide  whether the loans were  affordable at the point 
when they were taken  out, not afterwards.  Based  on the available information Im satisfied 
that the loans  were  affordable at the point when  they were agreed. Im also satisfied that 
Provident carried out reasonable and proportionate  affordability checks.
For the reasons  given  I wont be asking Provident to refund the interest which  Mr S has paid 
on his loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6993688