K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his contents  insurance claim 
for theft.  
background
Mr H took out contents insurance with AXA on 30 July 2016. On 12 August 2016 Mr H 
reported a theft to AXA.
Around the end of July 2016 Mr H went to stay with his mother for a couple of weeks in order  
to give his partner  time to move out because  they had decided to separate.  When Mr Hs 
partner left the property she took some items including the TV, sound bar and DVD player 
with her. Mr H contacted  the police and they persuaded  her to return  some of the items, 
including the TV, which she did. On doing  so she left her key with the neighbours. 
Mr H told AXA that hed suffered a theft at some  point between his partner returning the 
items and him returning from his mothers house.  He said there  was no sign of forced entry  
to the house. Mr H said he told the police  that items had been stolen and damaged which  he 
felt sure the police noted down on a crime report. 
In September  2016, Mr H sent AXA a completed  claim form. AXA appointed loss adjusters 
and valuers to try and validate the claim.  There were  long periods of delay when Mr H didnt 
respond to the attempts  by the loss adjuster  to contact him. 
Mr H raised a complaint  with AXA at the start of 2018 about how long it was taking to 
consider the claim  and about the fact itd said it wouldnt cover everything. In September 
2018, having reviewed the claim,  AXA wrote  to Mr H. It said there  were  inconsistencies in his 
account of the actual  date of loss. It also said that there was a policy exclusion for thefts 
carried out by a family member. It said the only existing police report  of a theft related to the 
one where Mr H had reported  that his former partner had taken items  she wasnt  entitled to. 
AXA said the police had deemed this to be a civil matter and closed its file. As there was no 
evidence of any other reported  theft, AXA said the subsequent one Mr H had claimed for 
wasnt covered because hed had failed  to comply with the policy condition requiring  him to 
report thefts to the police within 7 days of their discovery. 
In October  2018, Mr H complained to this service  about how AXA had handled his claim, that 
hed only received partial settlement for some of the items claimed for, that it was wrong to 
rely on the police  report and that itd all taken too long.  He also said that AXA had taken his 
damaged TV away to assess and hadnt returned  it. He said it was cracked  but still worked 
to an extent. Mr H said the TV had cost him £4,000 but now AXA was saying it wouldnt pay 
for it so he wanted it back. 
Mr H also told us that the theft was discovered by his neighbour who had gone round to 
check the house between his ex-partner returning  his items and himself returning  from his 
mothers house. He said the neighbour called him because it looked like the house had been 
burgled. Mr H told our investigator that hed then got in touch  with the police  to report it and 
theyd gone round to investigate. He said his former partner  wasnt considered a suspect. 
Following Mr Hs referral  of his complaint to this service, AXA looked  into Mr Hs complaint. 
AXA issued its final response letter in December 2018 and said that whilst  itd already 
replaced some items, it was unable to consider his claim any further due to the concerns it 
Ref: DRN69766102had. It accepted that the claim had been going  on for far longer than it wouldve liked but 
pointed out that there were long periods where  itd been unable  to contact Mr H or progress 
his claim because it was waiting for information  from him. It said it was referring  his claim to 
its special investigations  team  for a review.  
Mr H replied to AXA to say the previous dates hed given  were estimates and that the items 
his ex-partner returned had been in full working  order but were damaged during the 
subsequent theft.  He also said hed report the thefts to the police in stages:  the first when his 
ex-partner took the items, the second  when he returned home and noticed other items 
missing. 
In January 2019, Mr H provided a witness statement to AXAs  new loss adjuster stating that 
he believed  the theft occurred between  when his ex-partner returning the items and when he 
returned from his mothers. He also said he was unable to explain why certain  items  were 
damaged. He also said that, in fact, hed only reported one incident to the police namely his 
ex-partners removal of some of his items when she moved out. But he said he still wished to 
pursue his claim for the theft of some of his items after theyd been returned.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and recommended  that it was upheld  in part. 
She thought  that AXAs investigation  of the circumstances  of Mr Hs claim had been  fair but 
thought that AXA shouldnt have  taken Mr Hs TV given  the claim wasnt covered. So she 
recommended that AXA pay Mr H the cost of the same  TV based on a second hand or 
refurbished value plus interest at this services  usual rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date the TV was taken  to the date the complaint is settled.  And she said it should  pay him 
compensation of £75. 
AXA disagreed with our investigators findings.  It said its valuers had retained  the TV for over 
a year during  which time they had tried contacting Mr H to return it but hed not responded. It 
said it was unreasonable to expect  them to have held on to it for any longer particularly given 
the level of damage  the TV had sustained rendering it valueless.  Mr H replied and said he 
didnt think the police  ever updated the original report  he made  to include the subsequent 
theft and that the fact they hadnt  had influenced AXAs decision. Mr H said he just wanted 
the whole  matter finished and wanted  AXA to replace  the TV or give him a store credit. 
As neither party agreed with our investigators findings, the complaint was passed  to me and 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  the complaint. I made the following  provisional 
findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think this is a complaint that should 
be upheld; Ill explain why. 
Insurers are entitled to validate  all claims they are presented with in order to ascertain that 
they are valid and are covered by the policy terms. Policyholders have a duty to assist  
insurers in validating claims. 
Mr Hs claim was running for two years  before he complained to this service. Whilst I would 
normally expect an insurer to have  reached a definitive decision about a claim in a much 
shorter time frame than that, I can see that there were periods  extending  to a number of 
months (on several occasions) where  Mr H didnt respond to AXAs  requests for contact. 
Ref: DRN69766103Mr H has explained that he suffered a family  bereavement around this time which naturally 
took precedence. Whilst Im saddened to hear that was the case,  I cant  make AXA 
responsible for something it had no control over. Im satisfied from the evidence  that AXA 
made repeated attempts  to contact Mr H during the periods of delay and I cant  say that it 
could, or should,  have  done any more. So I cant reasonably find it unfairly  caused  delays  to 
Mr Hs claim.  
Nor do I think that AXA has treated Mr H unfairly  in the way it has handled and assessed his 
claim. It is clear to me from looking at all the evidence that there are inconsistencies  in the 
accounts Mr H gave  to AXA about what happened and when. There  are also inconsistencies 
about what he reported to the police and when. 
Ive seen the police report and, despite  Mr H saying (on some  occasions) that he reported 
the subsequent theft to the police (and that they failed to update their report) Ive seen no 
evidence that he did so. And I can see from the signed witness  statement he provided  to the 
loss adjuster AXA appointed, that he said, on one hand, the only report of a theft hed ever 
made to the police regarded his ex-partners removal of some  of his items and on the other 
that hed made several reports to the police under the same  crime reference number.
So whilst I can see that AXA paid out on some of the items Mr H claimed for (on the 
recommendation of the first loss adjuster),  I can also see it had subsequent concerns about 
the validity of the whole claim. This was due to repeated inconsistencies in Mr Hs account, 
the lack of any forced entry  (as required by the policy terms for the theft cover to engage) 
and because there was no evidence hed reported  a theft to the police within  seven days of it 
occurring (also as required by the policy terms). Given  these  inconsistencies, I dont think 
that AXA unreasonably decided an unreported and unexplainable theft wasnt covered by 
the policy. 
In his witness statement, Mr H said he couldnt explain what  had happened or why some of 
his items  (like the TV) had been damaged.  He said he didnt think the damage  was caused 
by his ex-partner  but was unable to provide  an adequate  explanation  for how the items came  
to be damaged during the purported  theft.  Initially, when the claim was first reported, AXA 
proceeded with validating  the claim. As part of that process its valuers collected some  of the 
damaged items to assess their value or whether they were capable  of repair. One of the 
items was Mr Hs TV. I dont think the steps AXA took at that point in the claim were  
unreasonable. 
As part of his complaint to this service,  Mr H said he wanted  his damaged TV back  because 
it was still working to some extent.  In reply to our investigators findings  he said he wanted 
AXA to replace the TV or give him store credit. 
Ive seen several photographs of the damaged unit and I can see that an engineer  examined  
the TV and filed a report. He said there  was damage  to the cabinet, LCD panel and rear 
cover, that the rear cover is scratched, the cabinet  is broken and the LCD Panel  is cracked  
in several places. All damage would be consistent with impact  and we cannot rule out that it 
couldve happened in a theft but in the engineers  [sic] opinion  the damage  does seem quite 
excessive[the engineer]  did not witness any evidence of a break  on [sic] in on collection of 
the unit. In addition, no accessories were  provided  with the unit for inspection  and screws 
were missing from the rear cover  (which was hanging off on collection).  We have  marked the 
report NOT  consistent to highlight these  concerns. Finally the engineer said,  the TV 
seemed to work ok otherwise despite the damage itd sustained. 
 
Ref: DRN69766104The valuers told AXA that, in their opinion the TV was beyond  economic repair  (BER), that 
the damage was extensive and looked, from the photographs, like someone had taken a 
hammer to it. They also said they had retained the TV for over a year but due to its size, it 
having no value  and that it had been  marked BER (because no replacement parts were 
available) it wasnt in a useable state.  Mr H had also told AXA during the claim that the TV 
had been ripped from the wall and wouldnt turn on. 
So, theres conflicting evidence from both sides about whether the TV worked or not. If I 
were to conclude that AXA had treated Mr H unreasonably by disposing  of the TV, then the 
correct redress in such circumstances  would be for me to require AXA to pay him a sum 
equivalent to the value  of the device in its damaged  state. Thats because the loss Mr H 
could be said to have  suffered  as a result of AXA unfairly disposing of the TV, is its value in 
its damaged condition; not its second hand  state or refurbished  condition. If AXA had been  
able to return the TV to him, he would be in possession of, in my opinion,  a valueless TV. 
Thats because,  having reviewed the photographs,  and taken all the other evidence about 
the TVs condition  into account, I think its reasonable  to conclude the TV, damaged  as it 
was, had no value.  
This means  that I think Mr H is no worse off as a result of AXA disposing of the TV. Having 
reviewed the photographs, I cant reasonably imagine that it wouldve been watchable. So 
whilst Mr H no longer has his TV, hes not suffered a loss: if it had been returned  to him, he 
wouldve been unable  to use it. Its fair to conclude the TV was damaged,  not only beyond  
economic repair, but any kind of repair.  The engineer  said there were no replacement  parts  
available. 
So I cant reasonably  say that Mr H has been prejudiced by the disposal of his TV. AXA 
disposed of a TV with no value, so Mr H is no worse off as a consequence of AXAs actions. 
I should also say that I dont  think  AXA acted  unfairly by disposing of the TV anyway. It had 
been with the valuers  for over a year and they had tried to contact Mr H to return  it. When  
they were unable to do so I cant say it was unreasonable  to dispose of it. 
So it follows  that I dont  think that AXA should  pay Mr H anything as a result of it disposing 
of, rather than returning, his TV. As I dont think that AXA acted unreasonably by disposing 
of it, I dont think it needs to pay Mr H any compensation. 
Neither Mr H nor AXA replied to my provisional  decision. The complaint was returned to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision my provisional findings  and provisional  decision remain unchanged and now form 
part of this, my final decision. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that this is a complaint that shouldnt  be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN69766105Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6976610