K821x#15complaint
Mr B, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  he was given 
unsuitable investment  advice  by Legal  & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd.
background
Mr B met with the L&G adviser in 2006. He was working full-time,  earning around £30,000 
annually, had no dependents  and minimal  liabilities  just a small mortgage outstanding  and 
due to be repaid  the following year. 
Hed accumulated  £16,000 in deposits  (some from an inheritance)  and a cash  ISA. He also 
held a stock and shares ISA in which hed been  investing £50 per month in the HSBC 
European Growth fund since  2000, which had attained a value of around £4,500. 
The suitability letter issued to Mr B said that he was disappointed  with the performance of 
the stocks and shares ISA and wanted to review his existing portfolio of investments to get 
greater diversity and capital growth.   
The adviser recommended that Mr B transfer the £4,500 in the ISA and add additional 
money from his cash deposits to reinvest a total lump sum of just under £8,000. This was to 
be spread across four new funds, weighted 87% moderate risk and 13% higher risk. The 
recommendation also included a continuing £50 per month into one of the higher  risk funds.  
In response to the complaint L&G explained that it felt the advice was suitable for Mr B. It 
noted his investment experience and his likely good understanding of risk versus reward 
and different risk profiles. It was satisfied  the recommendations  were  consistent with his 
needs and circumstances, as well as his attitude  to investment risk, which  had been 
recorded as cautious. L&G highlighted that the suitability letter  recorded  the advisers 
detailed discussions with Mr B and that he was made fully aware the investments were not 
guaranteed and could  fluctuate in value.
The CMC remained of the view that the advice had been unsuitable and referred the 
complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator reached a different conclusion to L&G and felt the 
complaint should  be upheld.  In brief, while he was satisfied  Mr B had been in a position to 
invest the amounts  in question he didnt think that the recommended  portfolio of funds  was 
consistent with a cautious risk profile.  He suggested that L&G compensated Mr B by way of 
a comparison of the performance  of the investments with our usual cautious benchmark. 
L& G didnt agree. It reiterated that before the advice Mr B had £16,000 at no risk and 
£4,500 in a high risk ISA. As a result of the advice this changed  to £12,600 at no risk, £6,500 
in lower risk (moderate) funds, with only a £1,000 in a higher risk fund. Considering  all 
these new investments, Mr B's attitude  to risk regarding his investment portfolio remained 
within the agreed 'cautious' profile, especially as the vast majority  of his money remained in 
a minimal risk environment.  It stressed  again  that Mr B was an experienced investor and 
fully aware of the concept of risk versus reward and of the different  risk profiles. 
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion,  the matters  been referred to me 
to review. 
Ref: DRN65293822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Much has been made by L&G of Mr Bs investment experience. But this appears  to have 
been limited to him putting £50 a month  into a stock and shares ISA for six years,  albeit into 
quite a high risk fund.  He didnt have any experience of investing  a significant lump  sum and 
this recommendation  effectively doubled the amount he had previously invested. 
But more  importantly, this whole new lump sum of just under £8,000 was invested in 
moderate and high risk funds. As such,  I cant really see how this can have been  consistent 
with a documented cautious attitude to risk. But I suspect  that it was in fact based  upon a 
consideration of Mr Bs money as a whole  including what  was held on deposit. 
I say this as the suitability  letter said These  recommended funds combined with your 
existing cash deposits meet  your investment objectives for greater diversity and potential  
returns whilst maintaining  an overall  cautious risk profile. This holistic  view also seems to 
have been taken in L&Gs response to the adjudicator view, as its said that the advice was 
consistent with a cautious risk profile  especially with the vast majority remaining in a 
minimal risk environment.
It may be the case that Mr B understood this concept. But I dont  think the suitability letter  
made it entirely clear. And ultimately I dont think someone expecting a cautious investment 
portfolio would be happy with all their invested money (as opposed to cash deposits   
money held as an emergency fund) in moderate risk, and higher, funds.
I accept that a consideration of Mr Bs circumstances at the time does make  this a fairly 
balanced case  his circumstances support a relatively high capacity for risk and he did have 
the experience  of the European fund. But it remains the case that the suitability letter  was 
very clear on him being a cautious investor. So I dont think  I can reasonably conclude that 
doubling the amount he had invested  and into exclusively  moderate and higher risk funds 
can have been  suitable. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr B's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  L&G do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  L&G must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
Ref: DRN65293823payable.
L&G should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Portfolio 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  L&G should  
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
Ref: DRN65293824higher return.  
I consider that Mr B's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money  
since the end date.
L&G should  provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear,  simple format.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct 
Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd to pay compensation to Mr B as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6529382