K821x#15complaint
Ms A has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly refused to provide 
medical assistance to her under her travel policy when she fell ill whilst on holiday abroad.
background
Ms Es annual travel policy was provided through her banks gold account  and was 
underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA and administered by its agents.
In July 2017, Ms E and her partner travelled to the Far East as a surprise  for Ms Es birthday 
and  she fell ill the day before they were  due to fly to another  destination within their holiday 
plans before then returning directly home. Unfortunately, she developed a kidney infection 
called pyelonephritis and was hospitalised for several days. That meant of course her 
partner was also without  accommodation, whilst Ms E was being treated in hospital, as their 
holiday had effectively finished.
IPA obtained her medical notes and from her GP and decided  that since Ms E had long 
standing well controlled nephrotic syndrome for which she took immunosuppressant 
medication, this was strongly  linked to pyelonephritis. So it refused  to pay her claim.
Ms E complained but IPA wouldnt  change its mind. It said she hadnt  declared her pre-
existing nephrotic  syndrome. It decided her pyelonephritis was connected to that syndrome 
and therefore  it was entitled to refuse  to pay her claim. So she brought her complaint to us.
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Es complaint should be upheld,  as he didnt think 
IPA had showed the connection between to the conditions. Also, he didnt think  IPA had 
showed that it wouldnt have provided cover for Ms Es longstanding nephrotic syndrome. So 
he thought IPA should deal with Ms Es claim in accordance with the remaining policy 
conditions. He also though it should pay her £200  for the distress  and inconvenience  it 
caused Ms E in refusing  to pay her claim.
IPA didnt agree. It said Ms Es case had been  reviewed by its chief  medical officer, who 
believed the conditions were linked. So as she didnt declare her nephrotic syndrome, her 
claim was correctly refused.
On this basis, Ms Es claim was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Its clear that this policy says Ms Es nephrotic  syndrome would not be covered if it wasnt  
listed in the list of the conditions not needing  to be notified to IPA. All of those conditions are 
covered in this policy without IPA needing  to be notified. So if a policyholder suffered a 
condition, which wasnt mentioned, as Ms E did here, unless IPA specifically agreed to cover  
that condition  in writing  to Ms E, it wasnt covered,  should Ms Es claim under her policy 
concern that medical condition. Ms E says her bank told her that there was no problem with 
this being covered at the time she took out her policy in August 2013,  but I have no evidence 
of that, as thats not what the policy says.
Ref: DRN61980822So I dont  have any difficulty  in agreeing  with IPA on that.
However, IPA has singularly failed to provide  any evidence to show  the pyelonephritis 
infection Ms E suffered  whist on holiday  and the nephrotic syndrome shes had for years,  
were linked. It said its chief medical officer (CMO) examined Ms Es case  and said it was 
linked. However, when I asked for the CMOs  notes on this, IPA then told me its CMO hadnt 
commented on the case, but could do so now. So I dont understand why IPA initially  said it 
was relying on the views of its CMO  when he or she had not made any comments  initially to 
help it come to its decision to refuse to pay Ms Es claim. I dont consider that to be 
reasonable.
Ms E, however, has provided evidence  from her treating doctor  at the time that her 
pyelonephritis wasnt linked in any way to her nephrotic syndrome  and Im persuaded by 
that, given theres  simply no other evidence to the contrary. 
IPA then went on to say that because Ms E was taking low dose  immunosuppressant  drugs  
to treat her nephrotic syndrome that would mean she was more susceptible to getting 
infections. But nowhere in the policy does it ask for a declaration of such medications for the 
conditions it doesnt  need to be told about.  Some of those conditions  in the list in the policy  
are widely and very routinely, treated with immunosuppressant drugs  such as arthritis,  
colitis, Crohns disease, rheumatism and psoriasis  to name just a few. So Im not persuaded 
thats a valid reason  for IPA refusing  to pay Ms Es claim either. Since its clearly happy to 
cover medical conditions that can very often require  such treatment with 
immunosuppressant drugs and it doesnt want to know  about  those conditions or their 
medications before the policyholder travels.
It also said its medical team had all looked  over the case, all of whom were  all medical  
professionals, which  was why Ms Es claim shouldnt be accepted.  However, when I asked 
for any comments beyond what has already been provided, there wasnt any. The comments  
that were initially provided wrongly  thought both conditions were  linked, and then wrongly in 
my view thought to exclude her claim because of immunosuppressant  medication.  Theres 
no evidence that first Ms Es immune system was significantly suppressed,  or that such 
depression of her immune system then caused her to develop pyelonephritis, either.
So I consider that IPA had no evidence to show the infection Mr E suffered from on holiday 
was connected  to her long-standing condition. Further, considering its happy to cover at 
least five conditions which routinely require immunosuppressant medication to treat them, I 
dont consider the fact Ms E was taking low dose immunosuppressant  medication  for her 
condition, permits it to refuse to accept her claim for that just that reason, without further 
evidence detailing that coherently. 
Therefore, I consider  IPA should now consider Ms Es claim in accordance  with the 
remaining policy conditions with a view to paying  her claim. That also means it should also 
add interest of 8% simple per year for any payment it makes from the date Ms E incurred 
those costs, to the date it refunds and/or pays her claim.
It should also pay Ms E the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her in refusing to accept her claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN61980823I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
Reconsider Ms Es claim under  the remaining terms and conditions of the policy with 
a view to accepting  and paying  her claim.
Add interest of 8% simple per year on any payments it makes  to her from the date 
those costs were incurred by Ms E to the date it pays her.*
Pay Ms E £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her in its 
failings to assess her claim coherently.
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms E how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6198082