K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Advent Insurance PCC  Ltd (Advent) declined her claim under  her
private medical insurance policy  (PMI),  that the policy was mis-sold to her and that her
medical records were disclosed to Advent, without her having  the opportunity to consider
these first.
background
Ms A took out a PMI with Advent on 5 July 2018. The policy was underwritten  on a
moratorium basis and pre-existing conditions arent covered for the first two years  the policy
is in force.
On 10 July 2018 Ms A saw a doctor  at her GP practice as she had abdominal pain. A two
month history of symptoms was recorded  and blood  tests were arranged.  On 16 July 2018
Ms A saw a different  GP who recorded a ten day history of symptoms and referred her for an
ultrasound. Ms A contacted Advent  for advice about  making a claim and was told shed need
to provide a copy  of the GP referral for the ultrasound  and consent  for them  to request her
medical records. She signed the consent form on 19 July 2018, the records  were requested
on 20 July 2018  and Advent received them  on 25 July 2018. As the medical records  showed
Ms A had reported  a two month history of symptoms  on 10 July 2018 the claim was
declined, as Ms A had symptoms before her policy started.
Ms A didnt accept her claim being  declined. She says the 10 July 2018  entry  in her medical
records is incorrect and shed only had symptoms for a couple of days, rather than months.
And she said the GP she saw on 10 July 2018 had since admitted that shed made a
mistake in recording the length of time shed  had symptoms for, so she feels Advent should
accept her claim.
Ms A also complained  about  how her claim had been handled by Advent. She said there  had
been delays in her claim being considered. And that Advent had failed to arrange  for her to
receive copies of her GP records before they were  disclosed to them.  She thinks  this led to
her claim being declined, as she didnt have  the opportunity to have her medical  records
amended, before they were  disclosed  to Advent.
Ms A complained to Advent who said her policy was underwritten  on a new moratorium
basis, which meant it didnt cover any pre-existing conditions, and related conditions, which
arose in the five year period before the start of the policy. They also said that as 
Ms A sought cover for symptoms reported  to her GP just five days  after the policy  started 
any medical insurer would want to investigate the claim  very carefully. This meant  that after
obtaining her consent  they contacted her GP to obtain copies of her medical records. Advent
acknowledged, that on the consent  form, Ms A indicated she wished to see a copy  of any
information before it was sent to them. But they said it was clearly stated on the form, that if
the patient wishes to see the records, they need  to make arrangements to do this with their
GP clinic. And when they received  the records they assumed Ms A had made  arrangements
to review these.
Advent acknowledged that Ms A believed the entry in her medical  records of 10 July 2018
was incorrect. But they said this was an issue for her to address with her GP surgery and
they were entitled  to rely on the entry unless it was obviously wrong, which  wasnt the case
here. So her complaint wasnt upheld.
Ref: DRN66544312After Advent  replied to Ms As complaint her registered GP wrote  to them, on 21 August
2018, about her claim. He said he saw Ms A on 16 July 2018 and she told him she didnt
think the GP she saw on 10 July 2018 fully understood her complaint. He also said he
suggested they start again and he took a full history and carried  out an examination. And
that the history  Ms A provided was consistent  with an acute  problem, with a short duration of
onset over the previous 10 days,  and unrelated  to any previous medical  problem.
Advent considered this letter but told Ms A that the GPs  note of 10 July 2018 was clear  and
in response to the information recorded the GP had arranged a number of tests. And they
said the only real difference between the two records was the length of symptoms  recorded.
Advent wrote to Ms A in August 2018  saying that their Claims Manager  had spoken to her
GP, to clarify what the GP she saw on 10 July 2018  had to say about  the entry she made in
the medical records. His understanding was that the GP didnt recall  exactly what  Ms A had
said to her. So they werent prepared to overlook  the entry of 10 July 2018 as an error, and
continued to believe  that a two month  history  of symptoms had been  accurately recorded.
In the same  letter Advent told Ms A that they believed their relationship  had broken down, as
a result of allegations shed  made about  their business practices and of improper behaviour
by various members of staff, which they said were  unfounded  and unsubstantiated. So they
felt the relationship should be brought to an end.
Advent said Ms A hadnt made any of her agreed monthly payments since  taking out the
policy. Advent say Ms A cancelled her direct debit. She says her bank cancelled  it because
Advent tried to take two payments on the same day. When Advent wrote to Ms A in August
2018 they gave her 10 working days to pay £348.27,  the payments due for July, August and
September 2018, and said if this was done they would provide cover until 5 October 2018,
giving her 30 days notice  of cancellation  of the policy. But if payment  wasnt received in this
time, her policy would be cancelled from the start date. The policy was subsequently
cancelled as no payment was received from Ms A.
Ms A then complained to our service. She provided  us with a copy  of a letter  written  by a
specialist she saw on 25 July 2018  to her GP, this refers to a two week history of pain, and
copies of the results  of tests her GP and consultant recommended.  These  show shes  been
diagnosed with a kidney  tumour. Ms A also told us she believed  Advent wanted to cancel
her policy because shed  challenged their decision to decline her claim. She also told us that
before she took out the policy she wouldnt be required to complete a medical questionnaire.
Our investigator considered the case  and partially upheld the complaint. She said that, as
the GP who saw Ms A on 10 July 2018  accepted she might have made a mistake,  in
recording the length of time Ms A reported having symptoms, and taking into account the
other medical evidence,  there wasnt enough evidence to show her symptoms  definitely
started before the cover was taken out. So she didnt think  the decision to decline the claim
should be maintained.
Our investigator said she accepted that Advent consider their relationship with Ms A had
broken down and they no longer wished to provide her with cover, and she appreciated the
reasons for this. But as Ms A now had a pre-existing condition  and wouldnt be able to
arrange alternative cover, she felt it was fair for the policy to be reinstated,  subject to
Ms A paying the outstanding premiums, and the claim reconsidered. She said she believed
the problems with payment of Ms As premiums would have been resolved if her claim had
been accepted.
Ref: DRN66544313Our investigator also said she didnt think the time Advent  took to deal with Ms As claim was
excessive. She felt the decision  Advent  to decline the claim on 25 July 2018  was
reasonable, given the evidence available at the time. And she didnt feel the failure to send
Ms As medical records to her, before they were disclosed  to Advent, was their fault as the
consent form she signed said it was for her to make  arrangements  with her GP if she wanted
to see the records  before they were sent.
Advent didnt accept  our investigators opinion as they said it was too simplistic to say the
issue with the premiums wouldnt have arisen  if the claim  had been accepted.
Our investigator reconsidered the case but didnt change her opinion that, subject to the
outstanding payments being made, the policy should be reinstated and Ms As claim
reconsidered.
Advent didnt accept  our investigators opinion so the case came  to me for a decision.
I made  my provisional decision on 22 August 2019. In it I said:-
Ms A has said she was told she would be covered for any condition  as soon as she took out
the policy with Advent.  I think both the policy schedule and Advents letter  of 5 July 2018
make it clear  that the policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis  and pre-existing
conditions werent  covered.
The policy defines  a pre-existing condition  as:-
Any medical condition or related medical  condition for which:
You have received  medication, advice or treatment; or
You have experienced symptoms;
whether the medical condition has been  diagnosed  or not in the five years  before the
commencement date.
So if Ms A had experienced any symptoms in five year period before  her policy  started, they
wouldnt be covered  by her policy, even if the condition subsequently diagnosed was
different to that originally suspected by her GP. This means her kidney tumour  wouldnt be
covered by the policy if she had symptoms before 5 July 2018.
I think Ms A was provided with enough  information  for her to understand that if she made  a
claim Advent would want to see her medical  records, before considering the claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Advent to request Ms As medical records  when she
contacted them for advice  about  making a claim.  Ms A indicated on the medical consent
form that she wished  to see her records before they were disclosed to Advent. Advent  have
acknowledged they could have reminded Ms As GP that she wanted  to see the records
before they were  sent to them. But the form clearly states its for the patient to contact the
doctor to arrange to see the records. So I cant say Advent were responsible for the records
not being seen by Ms A first.
I think Advent dealt with Ms As claim in a reasonable time. They  received the medical
records on 19 July 2018 and declined the claim on 25 July 2018. I also think  the decision to
decline the claim was reasonable as the medical records indicated  Ms A had symptoms
before she took out the policy.  And I think the disputed  entry  of 10 July 2108  in
Ref: DRN66544314Ms As medical records clearly states  she reported having certain symptoms for two months
and other  symptoms for one month.
So I need to consider what happened after the claim was declined. Ms A says the GP she
saw on 10 July 2018 has issued an apology to confirm she made  an error, that her own GP
and the consultants she saw later were correct,  and her medical records are being
amended.
I havent seen  any evidence that Ms As medical  records have been amended.
Its clear that Ms D didnt  see the 10 July 2018 entry in her medical records  until 26 July
2018 when Advent sent her a copy of the records.
Once Ms A saw her medical records she immediately disputed  the length  of symptoms that
had been recorded.
Ive seen an extract from a letter to Ms A, written by one of the partners at her GPs surgery
which says the doctor  she saw on 10 July 2018 would like to apologise profusely if she
made a mistake and admits it is quite possible there was a data input error recorded on
your notes. Ive seen  a letter,  dated  2 August 2018, said to be written by the doctor who saw
Ms A on 10 July 2018 which  states I cannot recall all of the details  such as the duration of
her abdominal pain,  and, therefore, it is possible that there  was a data input error recorded
on the records. The patient subsequently  informed the surgery that she had had the right
upper quadrant pain for two days when she saw me. I note that the letter  is typed and
unsigned. Given its contents I think it was reasonable  for Advent not to regard this as
persuasive evidence.
By the time Ms As GP wrote to Advent on 21 August 2018 Ms A had already complained
both to them and to her GP surgery.
Advent considered the letter from Ms As GP but didnt think  there was sufficient evidence  to
regard the entry of 10 July 2018  as an error.  Based on the evidence  Ive considered  I dont
think it was unreasonable for them to say this.
Advent wrote to Ms A on 30 August 2018 advising her of this. In the same  letter  Advent told
Ms A they were no longer  prepared to offer her cover.
I dont intend to go into great detail about  the comments  Ms A has made about Advent and
certain members of their staff. But having considered  Ms As emails  to them and having
listened to the call recordings I understand why Advent feel they can no longer continue  to
offer her cover. I understand that Ms A was upset when her claim was declined but I think
her comments went far beyond questioning the reasoning  behind  Advents decision.
And Advent did offer to provide Ms A cover  until 5 October 2018 provided  she paid her
outstanding premiums. Both Advent and Ms A have provided accounts of why her premiums
werent paid. Ms A has said she has evidence that her bank stopped the payments as
Advent made multiple requests. But I havent  seen  anything  to confirm this. But whatever the
reason Ms A made no payments towards her cover.
On the basis of the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Advents decision to decline 
Ms As claim was reasonable  and I wont be asking them to do anything.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Ms As complaint.
Ref: DRN66544315Advent have indicated that they have  no comments  to make on my provisional decision.
In response to my provisional decision Ms A has said:-
Shes concerned  that all the information she provided to our service hadnt been 
passed to me.
She says she emailed her GP before making  any claim on her policy indicating shed 
had symptoms for a few days.
Both the head  of her GPs surgery and the GP supervising the trainee GP she saw 
agreed her symptoms were new, which she says has been ignored.
She tried to pay her premium to Advent but they refused to take the payment.
She believes Advent  declined her claim out of spite and that they should  show 
respect to customers and take into account how upset a sick person can be.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I referred to the evidence Id relied on in reaching my decision. 
Simply because I didnt refer to every document or piece of correspondence,  provided by 
Ms A or Advent, doesnt mean that I hadnt considered them,  I had.
Ms A maintains that the GP she saw on 10 July 2018 made a mistake  in recording the length 
of time shes  experienced symptoms for. I considered what Ms A told us about this and what 
is stated in her medical records. Having  done this I felt that Advent acted reasonably in 
declining Ms As claim.  As I thought it was reasonable for Advent not to regard an unsigned 
letter as persuasive  evidence that a mistake had been made in her records on 10 July 2018.
I also considered what  the GP and the consultants  Ms A saw later said.  But when  Ms A saw 
her GP, on 16 July 2018, he suggested  they start again. So, he and the consultants were 
taking a fresh history, not addressing what was recorded on 10 July 2018.  
Its a shame that the email Ms A has now said she sent to her GP surgery wasnt sent to us 
before. But I believe  whats recorded  in Ms As medical records is more persuasive  evidence 
than this email.
Particularly as despite Ms A maintaining that shes asked for her medical  records to be 
amended, I havent  seen  any evidence that this has happened. 
Ms A has said she tried to pay her premium to Advent but they refused to take the payment. 
Advent have told us Ms A didnt pay her premium within  the deadline given in their letter  of 
30 August 2018.  They  say she only contacted them several weeks  after the deadline had 
passed saying  she hadnt been able to pay as they hadnt provided  payment details. While 
there remains a dispute about what happened, Ms A didnt make any payment in respect of 
her premium. 
Ms A clearly feels  strongly about Advents reasons for declining her claim. But I havent seen 
any evidence that they acted unreasonably  in their dealings  with her. Ive considered  
Ref: DRN66544316Ms As further comments but based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Advent did 
anything wrong  in declining her claim. So, I wont be asking them  to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Ms As complaint against  Advent Insurance PCC Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6654431