K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wants  to close his account and 
wont accept his repayment offer of £1-£2 a month towards his outstanding debt with it. 
background
Mr L has a current account  with Bank of Scotland that has an overdraft facility  of £1,000. He 
has been out of work for a number of years  and is in receipt of benefit payments. His 
overdraft facility on this account is used fully every month and Mr L has debts in the region of 
£40,000 elsewhere. 
Mr L has an existing health condition which means he is unable  to leave his home and 
requires help and assistance in carrying out his daily and financial affairs. When Mr L 
stopped work a number of years back,  due to his condition,  Bank  of Scotland  agreed to 
waive the interest and charges on the account  for a period of time.  Due to an oversight this 
remained in place until recently. 
Bank of Scotland now want repayment proposals from Mr L. It went through income and 
expenditure details with him and he was able to offer £1-£2 a month towards repaying the 
outstanding balance. Bank  of Scotland wasnt willing accept that amount and keep the 
account as it is. It offered  to close the account  and move Mr Ls balance to its recoveries  
department that could  agree a long term repayment plan. It also said Mr L could open a 
basic account with it on-line or in branch.
Mr L complained as his condition  means  hes unable to go to branch and he is unable  to use 
a computer. He didnt think it fair it wanted  to close his account as this is where  his benefits 
are paid to. He was also unhappy with the customer  service provided during some of his 
calls with it. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint  so he asked us to look into it. 
Our investigator didnt  think Bank of Scotland had taken Mr Ls specific  needs and 
requirements into account and upheld the complaint. She didnt find it fair that Bank of 
Scotland close his existing account  and ask him to open a new account.  She also didnt think 
there was a realistic  prospect of Mr L repaying  the balance  and so the debt should  be written  
off. 
Bank of Scotland disagrees  and so the matter was referred to me for review and 
determination. In summary, it said:
It is just one of a number of debts that Mr L has and it doesnt think  it is fair that it 
should have to write off its debt. It said Mr L has had the benefit of the money and so 
it should be repaid.  
Mr L has other accounts with it and he uses internet banking, His testimony 
surrounding being able to access  a computer has changed and it thinks he should  be 
able to open a basic account.
It considers the account being  passed  to recoveries to be a suitable option  given    
Mr Ls long term financial difficulties. It says the account would be defaulted,  and 
interest and charges  on the account would cease and recoveries would be able to 
agree repayments of £1-£2 a month. 
It considers it has gone above and beyond in providing assistance to Mr L and the 
fee suppression  is still on the account. 
Ref: DRN65933602It questions whether this office  has jurisdiction to recommend a customer be allowed 
to keep an account open or recommend they have a product.  
I issued my provisional decision on 9 January 2019 where I proposed upholding  the 
complaint but asking  Bank of Scotland  to do something different. I said:
Firstly the bank has questioned whether this office has jurisdiction  to recommend a customer 
has a particular product  or an account should remain open. I am not aware  of any jurisdiction 
rule which means Im unable to require a bank takes specific  action  on a complaint. If the 
bank is able to point to a specific  jurisdiction  rule then I ask it to let me know  in response to 
this provisional decision.  
Whilst who a bank  decides to provide services to is usually a matter  for its commercial 
discretion and not something we would  generally  interfere with, that is only where the 
discretion has been exercised fairly. If we find commercial discretion hasnt been  exercised 
fairly then we can require  the bank to do something  to put matters right.  
Its not in dispute  here that Mr L is in financial difficulties  he has been  for some time and I 
think it fair to say, his position is unlikely to change  in the near future.  I also accept that 
supressing the fees and charges as Bank of Scotland has done has provided assistance to 
him. But what I need to think  about  is whether or not its proposed  actions are fair for Mr L 
given his needs and circumstances. 
Mr L currently has his benefits  paid into this account. I readily  accept that for most people  
changing an account might not present many difficulties. But for Mr L it does and he has a 
carer who helps him with his day to day and financial affairs,  including  internet banking.  And 
although he has other accounts with the bank, I havent been given any reason why it cant  
simply downgrade the account he has to a basic account rather  than making him go through  
the process of completing another application.  Mr L wont simply have to change where his 
benefits are paid to, which might  involve calls or contacting other  parties, he will also have to 
change the details for payments coming from the account. Given Mr Ls health  situation I 
dont consider this to be a fair requirement.
Mr L has offered £1-£2  a month towards  the amount he owed the bank. It seems  to me the 
bank is willing to accept  this amount, but not on the basis  of his account staying as it is. So it 
does appear the bank  is actually willing to accept Mr Ls repayment  proposal. 
The investigator thought the balance owed ought  to be written off. I have thought about this 
carefully and can understand why the investigator  made that recommendation. At £1-£2 a 
month, the debt will take many years to repay unless Mr Ls situation  changes drastically. 
But I do agree  with the bank, that Mr L has had the benefit of the funds he spent at some 
point in the past and it is fairly  entitled to have those  repaid. So Im not currently minded to 
find the bank should write  off Mr Ls debt with it. 
But my disagreement  about that doesnt  mean I think the bank is fairly entitled  to close  this 
account and move the balance to recoveries and insist Mr L open a new basic account. 
Instead, I have thought  about this differently, as the bank ought  to have done and come to a 
compromise between  Mr L repaying  the debt and him not building up more new debt, which 
is an understandable concern of the bank. 
how the bank should put this right
Ref: DRN65933603Im therefore  currently minded to find the bank  should move  Mr Ls debt to an interest  free 
loan which  he can repay at £1-£2 a month (subject  to the banks usual reviews  on income 
and expenditure,  but not an application  process). The bank should then downgrade his 
existing account  to a basic account  so he is unable to build up any further debt that he wont  
be able to repay based on his current circumstances. This will mean the bank is receiving 
repayments towards the money Mr L owes it, but that Mr L keeps his current bank account 
and doesnt have to go through a process  to open a new account, or change  his account 
details for payments into or out of his account.
I think this strikes a fair balance between the interests of both parties in this matter. 
If Bank of Scotland is unable (rather  than unwilling) to downgrade the account, then I ask it 
to provide specific evidence of why in response  to this provisional  decision. 
Mr L has replied, accepting my provisional decision.  Bank of Scotland said it wasnt able to 
carry out my suggested award as its systems dont allow it to set up loans for the length of 
time needed here. So it said it was going  to review what  other  options  were available. We 
agreed an extension  for Bank of Scotland to reply by 1 March  2018 but it didnt reply by that 
date. 
Bank of Scotland then asked if it could  look into what  other  options  were available for Mr L. 
We agreed a date for it to reply by. Again  it didnt  meet that date and the matter  was referred 
back to me. As I about to issue  my final decision, Bank of Scotland  replied explaining it was 
only able to facilitate  loans of up to 96 months, which wouldnt be sufficient for Mr L. And it 
said its not possible to open an account  on behalf  of a customer, they would need to initiate 
that themselves  and its not certain the account would be offered. But it said it is now willing 
to bring the overdraft  balance to zero and remove the overdraft facility on Mr Ls account so 
he cant build up more  debt. 
As Bank of Scotland has now replied,  albeit  very late, its right that I take into account what it 
has said. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received  any further submissions regarding the outcome of this complaint   only 
the proposed  redress. So I see no reason to alter the reasons given for upholding Mr Ls 
complaint. 
It is very disappointing that despite  being provided with additional time, Bank of Scotland 
didnt meet the extended time frame given on more than one occasion. This has left Mr L 
worried about when  he can expect this matter to be finalised. And in the meantime the bank 
wrote to Mr L informing him he was now going  to be charged for the overdraft  despite it 
knowing that I had provisionally upheld this complaint and asked it to take action. Steps  
should have been put in place by the bank to prevent this happening  whilst the matter  was 
with us. 
Im satisfied the offer Bank of Scotland has now made is fair. It means Mr L wont  have  the 
worry of repaying the debt, even though he was willing to do so. And removing the overdraft 
facility should  mean  he wont  build up further  debt in the future.  It also means Mr L retains  
Ref: DRN65933604his bank account and so wont  need  to go to the trouble of changing his details for any 
payments received in or going out of his account.  
But I do feel I should comment  on the points that Bank of Scotland has made in response  to 
my provisional decision. It said its systems wont allow it to set up loans for the length of time 
needed here. But I note that it offers mortgage  loans for up to 40 years on its website, so Im 
unclear as to why it cant facilitate the loan I proposed. 
Bank of Scotland also said that a customer needs  to initiate a new account opening. And it 
wouldnt be certain Mr L would be accepted  for a basic  account.  Again Bank  of Scotland has 
provided no reason  as to why it cant simply change Mr Ls account to a basic account.  And I 
see no reason why a customer  should  have to initiate an account  opening  in situations such 
as this; it doesnt appear in keeping with how the regulator would expect a bank to treat 
vulnerable customers.  Given the bank knows all of Mr Ls details  and he is already a 
customer of the bank, I see no reason why it simply couldnt have facilitated this. But as the 
bank has now decided  to write off Mr Ls debt I dont need to press that point here.  
how the bank should put this right  
As I have upheld the complaint I require  Bank  of Scotland  to take action to put matters right. 
I require it to reduce  Mr Ls overdraft  balance to zero and remove  the overdraft facility,  as it 
has offered. 
Bank of Scotland hadnt really thought about Mr L as an individual  when speaking  with him 
about his account. Rather  it has sought  to fit him into its process rather  than see what  it can 
do to help. It also delayed  our process  for Mr L and wrote to him to tell him it would  be 
charging him for the overdraft, after I had already provisionally upheld his complaint. This 
caused unnecessary  worry to Mr L. So I also require  Bank of Scotland  to pay Mr L £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience  this has caused  him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Bank  of Scotland  to put 
matters right in accordance with what I have set out above within  28 days  of it receiving     
Mr Ls acceptance of my decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before  7 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6593360