K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr M says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  on a store card.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2002.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr M owed on his store  card. The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mr M couldnt work  because 
he had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
This policy was taken out by completing  an application form in a store. Mr M has said that he 
received advice about the policy but FICL  says no advice was given  and the policy wasnt 
recommended to him. Based on what I know about their sales practices, I think  its more 
likely that FICL didnt give advice to Mr M during the sale.  So it didnt have to check  that the 
policy was right for him but it did need  to give him clear  enough  information  to enable him to 
decide for himself if this cover was right for him.
As this policy was taken out in store, I dont know for sure what  was said to Mr M. So I 
havent any evidence  to show that Mr M was given clear information about the cost of the 
policy, in real terms. Its possible FICL may have explained the amount he would pay for 
each pound he spent  on the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest would be 
charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that he would need to 
keep paying the premiums  during  a claim.  So I dont  think  its likely Mr M would have 
been made aware of the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have mattered to Mr M as he has told us that he would have received full 
sick pay for six months, followed by half pay for a further six months if he was too ill to 
work. I think  this is quite likely, based  on what we know  about  the job role that Mr M was in 
and the organisation that he was employed  for. Mr M has also said he had savings which 
he could have used  to meet his repayments,  and he says these would be the equivalent of 
at least three  months of his salary. 
Ref: DRN62731602Unfortunately Mr M hasnt been able to provide  evidence of these savings. But he has told 
us that they were held in an external bank account and that rental earnings from a property 
he owned in another country  were  deposited  to this account. He has said that they were  
accessible at any time as he could transfer  them to his UK account. Ive thought  about  this 
very carefully and I dont think its unreasonable that Mr M doesnt have any 
documentation regarding  his savings from the time of the sale  it was over 16 years ago. 
And taking  into account his job role and age at the time of taking out the policy, I think its 
more likely than not that he would have  had some savings. And having savings to cover 
three months salary  is not an unreasonable sum.
I am aware that the benefit of the policy was relatively high. But so was the cost.  And given 
what Mr M has told us about his employee  benefits and the savings he had at the time, I 
dont think that Mr M would have thought the policy was value for money if he had fully 
understood the costs.
So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think FICL gave clear enough 
information to Mr M to enable him to decide  if the policy was right for him. And, if it had, I 
dont think he would  have  taken the policy out as I dont think he would have considered it 
value for money. So I think Mr M has lost out as a result of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr M in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr M would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mr M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mr M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN62731603Mr M has been, and still may be, in an IVA. So he may have to give some  or all of his 
compensation to his insolvency practitioner. Mr M should keep this in mind   he may need to 
speak to the practitioner about any compensation he gets.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr M complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6273160