K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how Nationwide Building Society has managed their joint 
account.
background 
Mr and Mrs M have  complained to our service about  a number of issues  theyve experienced 
with Nationwide. This complaint deals with an overseas payment that they asked Nationwide  
to make in October  2017, and an overdraft that was removed from their account late in 2016. 
Mr M has brought this complaint on behalf  of them both.
Mr M said that there was an overdraft  on the couples joint flex account,  which  he had 
reached an agreement  with Nationwide to pay off over time. But he said that Nationwide  
insisted that he paid off the remaining overdraft all at once,  because  it saw that he had 
enough money in the account to do that. He said that this was unfair. That money had come 
from an endowment, and was needed to pay off his mortgage. He said that his financial 
circumstances hadnt changed, and he didnt  think  that Nationwide  shouldve gone  back on 
the agreement  hed reached  with it to pay the overdraft off. 
Mr M also said that he had previously had difficulties with payments overseas made  by 
Nationwide. But he said that a payment in October 2017  caused  much bigger problems. He 
said that the payment was to pay rent for a family member that he and Mrs M support  
financially. The payment  was needed urgently because the family member  had been  served  
with notice from a debt recovery agency,  and warned they could be evicted from their home.  
Mr M said that this all happened during what shouldve  been the holiday of a lifetime  for him 
and Mrs M, but Nationwides ongoing  failure to sort the payment out meant that the holiday 
was ruined. 
Mr M said that these werent  the first times that Nationwide had made mistakes. He knew  
that our service couldnt consider some  earlier problems  he and Mrs M had experienced, 
including an earlier issue with an overseas payment, but he wanted  us to bear in mind  these 
earlier problems when  looking  at this complaint. 
Mr M said that he wanted Nationwide to pay him £15,000 in compensation to make  up for 
ruining the holiday, and all the stress  that this had caused to him, Mrs M, and their family 
member. 
Nationwide said that there had been  problems with a payment that Mr M tried to make to a 
family member in early  October 2017. It said that it uses an intermediary bank to make these 
payments for it. The payment was submitted  on 4 October 2017, processed and sent to that 
intermediary. But the intermediary asked for some  further information  on 6 October.  Due to 
an oversight at Nationwide, Mr and Mrs M werent asked to provide this information until 16 
and 17 October. Nationwide has said it thinks that this delay was unacceptable.  
Nationwide received a reply  to its information request from Mr M on 25 October, and it sent 
that to the intermediary bank the next day. But unfortunately  it was too late for this payment  
to go ahead, and the money was returned  to Mr and Mrs Ms account on 8 November. 
Nationwide said that it resubmitted the payment  promptly. It had agreed to send €1,400,  
made up of the €1,000 Mr M had intended to send, and €400 from Nationwide,  to pay the 
Ref: DRN62207072costs that Mr and Mrs Ms family member had incurred due to the late payment. But 
Nationwide initially only sent €1,000.  It accepts  that this was another  mistake. 
Nationwide said that it then sent the remaining €400  from Mr and Mrs Ms account,  and 
refunded them the cost of that payment the same day. 
Nationwide has accepted that it made mistakes in how it handled this payment. It said that it 
missed some of Mr Ms emails about this missing payment, because they were added  to his 
complaint, and not read until the complaint  was assigned  to someone.  
Nationwide also says that a message it shows people, to warn them that they should monitor  
their secure messages until a payment is taken from their accounts  for an international 
transfer, is misleading. Thats because Nationwide might still need to ask for extra  
information after the money  has been taken from their accounts. 
Nationwide also told us what  happened  with the overdraft on Mr and Mrs Ms account. It said 
that it told Mr and Mrs M in January 2013 that they could no longer have an overdraft at the 
current level of £2,300. Nationwide intended then to reduce that overdraft to £1,500  by the 
end of the month. But Mr M got in touch,  and in February 2013 set up an arrangement to 
make small reductions, which would  gradually  bring down the overdraft over time. The level 
of reduction agreed  meant that it would take a very long time for the overdraft to come down. 
The arrangement to pay was due to be reviewed regularly.
Nationwide said that in September 2015 it had asked  whether Mr and Mrs M still needed  the 
overdraft, because there had been a large credit paid into their account.  Mr M said that 
money was going  to be needed to repay the couples mortgage. But in December 2015, 
Nationwide said the money was still there. So it said that it asked again, and Mr M said that 
the couple needed the money to cover the costs of moving early in 2016. So Nationwide 
extended the couples overdraft until February  2016. The arrangement was reviewed again  
in February 2016,  when  Mr M said that the couples mortgage was due to end. Hes told us 
that the credit balance  and the overdraft  money  would be needed to repay the balance.
In September  2016, the repayment arrangement was reviewed again. Mr M spoke  to 
Nationwides collections team on 20 October 2016. Nationwide said then that it wouldnt 
extend the overdraft repayment arrangement for any longer.  Mr and Mrs M had had a very 
large credit balance in their account  for some considerable time by then. 
Mr M said he needed all of that money, and the overdraft facility, to repay the mortgage. But 
Nationwide said that it manages Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. The term had been extended to 
June 2017, the house was for sale, and there  was sufficient equity in the property to repay 
the full balance owed. So Nationwide removed the overdraft and the repayment arrangement  
from Mr and Mrs Ms account. Nationwide has since told Mr and Mrs M that an arrangement 
to pay on their account was likely to negatively affect their credit  files. So if it was no longer  
needed, then it should be removed. 
Our investigator said that she thought  that the amount that Nationwide  had offered in this 
case was fair. She said that shed looked at each of Mr Ms complaint points in turn.
Our investigator looked at what happened when Mr M sent a payment to a family member.  
She explained that our service cant consider the impact  of the delays in receiving this 
payment on that family member. He isnt one of the account holders. 
Ref: DRN62207073Our investigator said that she thought  that Nationwide had caused a delay to this payment, 
because it had been asked for some extra information on 6 October, but it hadnt  requested  
this information  from Mr M until 16 and 17 October. 
That information was supplied on 25 October, and sent to HSBC the following day. Mr M 
made a number of attempts to follow up on this payment, but those didnt receive a response 
because they were treated as part of his complaint.  Our investigator  said that this was 
frustrating for Mr M, and wouldve been  less so if Nationwide had been in touch. 
Our investigator noted that the money was returned  to Mr and Mrs M on 8 November, 
because the information HSBC had requested  was supplied late. Our investigator didnt think  
that wouldve  happened if Nationwide hadnt caused a delay in contacting  Mr M. 
Nationwide had agreed to send €1,400 to Mr Ms family member,  and said it would pay €400 
of that, to cover some additional costs that Mr Ms family member had incurred because the 
payment hadnt  been received when expected. But by mistake Nationwide only sent €1,000 
at first. It then paid the €400. The money didnt reach Mr Ms family member  until 14 
November. 
Our investigator said that she thought  that Nationwide had made a fair offer to compensate 
Mr and Mrs M for what  had gone wrong.  She said it had paid €400  to cover extra costs that 
the family  member had incurred, but those  extra costs  actually  seemed  to be a bit less than 
€300. And she said that Nationwide had offered Mr M £342.14  to pay off his phone bill, when 
he was ringing from overseas to try to sort out this problem.  It had offered to refund a fee of 
£9 hed paid for the money transfer.  And it had offered him £450  in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator said that she thought  what Nationwide had paid, and offered, was in line 
with what our service would recommend. 
Our investigator then considered Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft. She said that she didnt think 
that Nationwide did anything wrong when  it put in place a payment plan to reduce this 
overdraft in 2013. And she also didnt think that Nationwide did anything  wrong  when it 
decided to remove this overdraft in 2016, at a time when the account was significantly in 
credit. 
Our investigator said that she knew that Mr M was very unhappy with Nationwides  process 
for transferring money overseas, but she said that we cant  tell a bank to change  its 
processes and procedures. Our service doesnt have the power  to do that.
Our investigator said that she thought  Nationwides  offer in this case was fair. 
Mr M sent some further information to set out why the amount hed had to send this family 
member was larger than anticipated. It seems  as if there was already an element of rental  
arrears before the payment  was requested. 
Mr M then wrote  to our service to disagree  with our investigator. He said that he was 
disappointed that our service wasnt considering  what  he said about  the payment transfer 
system being broken. And he said that the payment  that Nationwide had offered wasnt  
enough to put him and Mrs M back in the situation  that they shouldve been in, enjoying a 
dream holiday overseas.  He also said that it made no sense not to take account of the 
suffering of his family member, whod  been  severely affected by the late payment. 
Ref: DRN62207074Mr M also said that he knew overdrafts could be called in at any time, but it wasnt  warranted 
in this case. He had an agreed,  regularly reviewed, arrangement to reduce his overdraft. He 
said that he thought Nationwide had taken money  that wasnt  its, and this had left him over 
£1,000 short in repaying his mortgage.  
Our investigator then wrote again. She said that she hadnt  changed  her mind. She said that 
we cant ask Nationwide to change its systems.
Our investigator said that she understood that Mr M was making  a point that problems could 
still occur  after the money for an international transfer had been debited from an account. 
But she said that the problem hadnt come from Nationwide, it was a request for further 
information from the intermediary bank. That transfer has to have started  before  the 
intermediary can request these additional checks.
Our investigator said that she knew that Mr M wanted the total cost of his holiday back,  and 
that he wanted compensation for his family member too. But our investigator said that shed 
explained why she didnt agree with that. She also said that she couldnt agree that in 
removing the overdraft on Mr and Mrs Ms account, Nationwide  had taken  money that wasnt  
its money to take. She said that overdrafts are supposed to be short  term lending.  A bank 
doesnt have to offer an arrangement to pay if the customer has enough money  to pay the 
overdraft off. And banks  should take into account  the impact  of an arrangement  to pay on a 
customers credit file. 
As our investigator and Mr M didnt agree, this case was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator on this complaint.
Our service is able to consider the complaint made  by Mr and Mrs M about a payment 
transfer request  made in October  2017, and about the removal  of their overdraft in October 
2016. We are able to bear in mind the previous experiences with Nationwide that Mr M has 
alerted us to, and we are able to consider the impact that these  issues had on Mr and Mrs 
M, including the impact  on them of distress caused  to a close family member whom they 
support financially.  As our investigator explained,  we are not able to compensate this family 
member, who isnt a customer of Nationwide. 
Ill start by considering  the payment request that Mr M made in October 2017. He wanted us 
to consider this request in the light of a complaint  that hed made about an earlier payment 
request, in July 2017. Mr M said that the money for that payment in July was taken from the 
account, and he was given to understand,  by a message from Nationwide, that this meant  
the payment would go ahead. But that isnt what happened, Mr M was asked for further 
information. He didnt initially realise this request had been made, and there was a delay to 
the payment being received as a result. 
Mr M asked  Nationwide  to make another payment in October 2017. Im not sure why Mr M 
had chosen to use Nationwides transfer service again, although he told us he was very 
unhappy with what it had done in July. 
Ref: DRN62207075Mr M told us he then received the same reassurance from Nationwide  that the payment 
would go ahead, once the money  was taken.  I can see that Nationwide  again received a 
request for further information  from the intermediary bank that it uses  to process transfers. 
And it caused a delay  of around ten days in requesting this information  from Mr M. 
Mr M responded to this request  just under ten days later.  
Unfortunately, although  the information  was sent on to the intermediary bank promptly  by 
Nationwide, it was too late for this payment to go through. Mr M was by now very concerned  
about this missing payment. He has told us that his family member was being threatened 
with debt and eviction proceedings. I note that Nationwide didnt respond to his 
communications about this, and I think that Nationwide  let Mr M down when it failed to 
respond.
Nationwide sent a payment for €1,000 early in November, and a further €400 which 
Nationwide has reimbursed Mr M for. Fortunately,  his family member  hadnt been evicted, 
and I note that the money that Nationwide reimbursed Mr M more  than covered the 
additional costs  that the family  member  had to pay.
I understand that it wouldve  been very distressing  for Mr and Mrs M to find that a family  
member was in an extremely awkward financial situation, because  some money they had 
sent hadnt yet arrived.  I appreciate that this happened when they were  away  from home, 
and affected their enjoyment  of a holiday.  But I dont think that I can hold Nationwide  solely 
and entirely responsible for what went wrong in this case. 
Mr M has accepted that his family  member  was already in rent arrears before the payment 
transfer was requested. And Mr M took almost ten days to reply  to Nationwides  request for 
further information, to allow the transfer  to go ahead.  
I have taken into account that Nationwide had told Mr M that he wouldnt need to keep an 
eye on his secure messages once the money  had been taken from his account. But I also 
need to take into account  that by the time Nationwide asked  Mr M for further information, 
rent money which was needed to clear  pre-existing arrears was already three weeks late. 
And the request for further information,  which Mr M didnt  immediately  realise was there,  
seems to be the same problem as Mr M had experienced in July 2017. So its not clear to 
me why Mr M didnt check his secure  messages from Nationwide  again in the interim,  or 
indeed, why he hadnt checked with Nationwide about this payment prior to this.
I do think that the primary responsibility  for this payment going  wrong  lies with Nationwide. 
But I dont think that its wholly  responsible  for everything that went  wrong. And I have to 
take that into account when I assess compensation.
Nationwide has offered £450  in compensation. It has said it would like to pay Mr M £342.14 
to cover his phone bill, and £9 in payment transfer fees. It has already  paid £362.65 to cover 
the additional €400 that hed told it his family member needed to cover the costs of legal 
proceedings taken  against him when  this money  didnt arrive.  I appreciate  that this also 
includes compensation for failed cash withdrawals on 4 November 2017,  but I think that this 
provides a fair outcome  to this part of Mr Ms complaint. 
I understand that Mr M considers that a once  in a lifetime holiday overseas was ruined by 
the stress  of this problem. But I have to bear in mind  that Ive not been able to find that 
Ref: DRN62207076Nationwide was solely and entirely responsible for what went wrong.  I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable, as Mr M has suggested, to pay him and Mrs M £15,000.
Mr M also complained that Nationwide  removed an overdraft, which he said hed reached  an 
agreement to pay off in small increments. He thought that Nationwide had taken money that 
didnt belong  to it.
I can see that Nationwide contacted Mr M in January 2013 to say that it wanted  to reduce his 
overdraft. He reached an agreement then to pay down that overdraft in very small amounts, 
of £10 per month.  
Mr M told us that this agreement was regularly reviewed, and Nationwide has shown us 
evidence of that. 
But Mr M didnt think  that Nationwide could change the arrangement.  I dont agree with that. 
I think that the purpose of the regular  review of the payment arrangement  that Mr and Mrs M 
had entered into, was to check  not only whether the payments  were  still affordable  for them,  
but also to see if they could  afford to pay more.  When Nationwide first put this arrangement  
on this account,  its notes show that it mentioned  to Mr M that payments at this rate would 
mean that it would take many years  to pay off the overdraft,  which  was then at £2,300.  
Nationwide reviewed Mr Ms overdraft on more than one occasion  when  this account was 
very substantially in credit. It appears  as if Mr M gave differing explanations  over this time as 
to why the overdraft  facility would still be needed. 
In late 2016, Nationwide reviewed Mr Ms overdraft arrangement again.  It has questioned the 
explanation he gave then for still needing  the overdraft. He said that it would be needed to 
pay off his mortgage, but Nationwide  said that this mortgage was being extended, and it 
expected that he could  pay the mortgage  off with equity in his property, which  he was selling. 
So it removed the overdraft facility from this account. 
I think that Nationwide was right to be concerned  about the ongoing effect  on Mr and Mrs 
Ms credit files of an arrangement to pay which had, by then, been in place for some  years.  
When Nationwide removed this overdraft from an account which  was then substantially in 
credit, it also ended the ongoing negative impact  of this arrangement to pay on Mr and Mrs 
Ms credit files. I dont think that Nationwide made  a mistake when it did that. And I dont 
think it has to do anything  to make up for this. 
I think that the offer that Nationwide  has previously suggested to Mr M provides a fair 
outcome to this complaint. So thats what Ill award.
Ref: DRN62207077my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  must pay Mr and Mrs M £342.14 to 
cover call costs,  £9 to cover transfer fees,  and £450  in compensation. It can count towards 
this amount any money it has already  paid Mr and Mrs M for this complaint, except the 
amount of £362.65  which it credited  to Mr and Mrs Ms account to cover an additional  €400  it 
had agreed to transfer to their family member. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Esther Absalom
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6220707