K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Mrs C took out a store card. Sometime  after, in 1997  she was sold a PPI policy  over the 
phone to cover her card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100  of the balance on Mrs Cs 
store card. A successful  claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance 
on the store card if Mrs C was unable to work due to accident  or sickness  or lost her job. The 
benefit would continue to be paid until Mrs C returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld because  he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Mrs C.
Mrs C disagrees.  She says no information  was given to her and she wouldve never opted to 
take PPI.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information  I 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice in taking the policy. The policy  was 
sold over the phone.  From what we know of FICLs sales process and call scripts I think  its 
likely that the sales  adviser wouldve explained  to Mrs C she had a choice in taking the 
policy. And because  the policy was sold after the store card was taken out I think  its likely  
Mrs C wouldve known she had a choice  in taking it and the policy was taken because she 
chose to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs C to buy the policy. What this means is that FICL didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs C, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
Ref: DRN61485872I cant say whether FICL gave all the information as they shouldve.  That being  said even if 
FICL did give all the information  Mrs C needed to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Mrs C was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs C says she was entitled to sick pay and had savings she 
could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work or lost her job. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and savings and for potentially  longer. So I 
think the policy wouldve  provided  a useful benefit for Mrs C in her circumstances. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs C and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs C on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Financial  
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6148587