K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Zenith Insurance Plc have refused to meet a claim hes made under his
motor warranty policy.
Other companies have  been involved in Mr Ks claim, but Zenith are ultimately responsible
for it, so for simplicity Ill just refer to them in the majority of this decision.
Background
Ive set out the full background in my provisional decision, which Ive copied below, but in 
short Zenith havent accepted a claim from Mr K for replacing the engine  in his car.
Zenith have argued  that Mr K didnt  follow  the terms and conditions  of his warranty  policy.  
Mr K has argued that he didnt realise  he hadnt, and wants the full cost of his engine repairs.
In my provisional decision I explained  I thought  Zenith had acted fairly  in declining  the claim. 
I was satisfied Mr K didnt tell them in time,  and that the engine wasnt  available  for 
inspection once Mr K had told Zenith. Zenith  did make an offer of £500 to try and resolve the 
claim. They withdrew that when Mr K contacted us, but I didnt  really  feel that was fair. So 
overall I felt £250  compensation  was appropriate  to resolve this complaint.
Both parties  responded,  and neither  party agreed. Mr K said responded, copying in Zenith, 
and said:
He previously held another  policy where you could make  a claim and get it 
authorised afterwards  he attached some information this.
The engine was still available for inspection had Zenith wanted to, but as the garage  
is approved by a well-known automobile  company their diagnosis  should be enough.
And he felt that Zenith removing the £500 award  for bringing his complaint to us is 
penalising him  and if I reach  the same decision as in my provisional decision hell 
take things further with Zenith.
Zenith responded to both my provisional decision, and Mr Ks email, and said:
They appreciate  my comments the claim was handled correctly   and believe that 
supports their position rather  than the award  of £250.
The £500 offer was made outside  the terms of the policy,  for Mr K to accept without 
the need for further  administration costs  for Zenith.
They cant agree  that rescinding an offer Mr K was never entitled to can be unfair.
Motorway Direct (the company handling the claim on behalf  of Zenith) have said 
theyve never offered  or administrated a warranty which allows  work to be carried out 
without contacting the claims team.
And they disagree with Mr Ks comments there were no conditions  theyve said the 
response they issued  said the offer was in full and final settlement of his complaint  
so by escalating  he should have known  it would no longer be available.
Id like to thank both parties for sending me their further information to consider.
This decision should be read in conjunction with my provisional decision  copy attached.
Ref: DRN65547492My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I still partially  uphold this complaint and find that Zenith should pay Mr K 
£250 in compensation. 
Mr K has argued that he had a previous policy which allowed him to have work completed 
and claim back costs  afterwards. Motorway Direct  have said theyve never  offered a policy  
like this. But regardless of whether Mr K did have a policy like this previously, at the time of 
the claim hed held his policy for two years. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for him to have 
been aware of how to make a claim under the terms of this policy.
Mr K has argued that the engine was still available  for inspection.  But as I said in my 
provisional decision, I was satisfied it wasnt  or at the very least, Zenith werent  aware it 
was. Zeniths call notes show they contacted the garage, and were told by the garage the 
engine wasnt available for inspection. I think Zenith were entitled  to rely on this information.
And I understand Mr Ks frustration about  Zenith  withdrawing the offer of £500 and him 
feeling like hes being penalised. This leads me on to addressing the points Zenith made in 
response to my provisional  decision.
Zenith have made several arguments  about  why they think  my award of £250 isnt correct. I 
understand why they might feel like that. Theyve  made an attempt to resolve a complaint 
informally, which Mr K hasnt  accepted.
Mr K was entitled to bring his complaint to us  and quite simply I dont think its fair that as a 
direct result of this Mr K gets no compensation. Zenith didnt tell us when they first contacted 
us with their file the offer wasnt  available, or after our case  handler issued their assessment. 
Mr K remained under  the impression, until my provisional decision, that the offer of £500 was 
still available to him.
So, while I dont think its right Mr K gets the full £500  on the basis  Zenith have  correctly  
declined the claim   I think £250  is fair as I dont  think Zenith acted reasonably  in 
withdrawing the offer.
My final decision
It follows I partially uphold  this complaint and order Zenith Insurance  plc to pay Mr K £250 in 
compensation for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65547493Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr K complains that Zenith Insurance Plc have refused to meet a claim hes made under his
motor warranty policy.
Other companies have been involved in Mr Ks claim,  but Zenith are ultimately responsible
for it, so for simplicity Ill just refer to them in this decision.
Background
In November 2018 Mr K called Zenith to explain hed been having problems with his car for
the last two and a half weeks. Hed taken it to a garage thinking initially it was a minor issue,
and ultimately  the garage replaced the engine. He said he wanted to claim  on the policy.
Zenith looked into this, and turned down the claim,  explaining he should have contacted
them before any work had been carried out.
Mr K complained to Zenith. In response they said that, even though Mr K should  have
Ref: DRN65547494contacted them before  any repairs had taken place,  they still tried to assist. They contacted
the garage where the engine was, and were told itd been removed. This meant they couldnt
assess the engine to determine  whether  they were liable for the repairs  and as theyre
bound by the terms  and conditions which says he has to contact  them first for them  to
assess the damage, they couldnt do anything further about meeting  the whole claim. But
said they sympathised with Mr K, so offered him £500  as a goodwill payment.
Mr K didnt accept this offer because  he wants the full cost of the engine repairs, just under
£4,000, so asked us to look into his complaint.  Our case handler did so, and felt Zenith had
considered things fairly. The terms and conditions meant Mr K should have got in touch  first,
she thought Mr K could have contacted Zenith earlier than he did, and she noted  theyd
offered him £500 as a goodwill  payment.
Mr K didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our case handler asked Mr K why he hadnt contacted Zenith  earlier  he explained its
because he thought it was a simple issue initially  which got more  complicated over time. And
then later on he complained  to the manufacturer of his car which he says delayed him
contacting Zenith further. But I dont think either of these  points  means  Mr K couldnt  have
contacted Zenith earlier  or didnt need  to. So Im satisfied Mr K could have contacted
Zenith earlier than he did  which might have meant they could have assisted with his claim.
This was important because the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy essentially say that he
needs to get in touch with Zenith  before  any repairs  can be agreed.  Mr K has said that he
had a previous policy which allowed him to arrange repairs and then claim  costs back later
on. Even if that was the case, Mr K had this policy  for almost two years, so it isnt
unreasonable to think hed know he had to contact  Zenith first. And given this went  on for
over two weeks Im satisfied Mr K had enough opportunity to contact Zenith for authorisation
of the repairs.
Mr K says when he did get in touch with Zenith the garage were still in the process  of
repairing his car  so the engine was still available.  But I can see from Zeniths call notes
they contacted the garage the next day. The garage explained the engine had been
removed from the premises. Zenith felt that without being able to inspect the engine they
couldnt determine if they were liable for the repairs  to Mr Ks car. I think  this is a reasonable
position to take  the damage could have been caused by a number of different issues,
some of which might  be covered under the warranty and some which might not. So Im
satisfied the engine had been removed  before Mr K contacted Zenith, and their decision to
not consider his claim was reasonable.
Zenith had offered £500 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the situation. Before  finalising
this decision I asked Zenith  if this remained available. They said it didnt, because  Mr K had
chosen to ask our service to consider his complaint.
This doesnt feel fair or reasonable  to me. Mr K has exercised is right to ask our service to
look into his complaint   as hes entitled to do. But I do have to factor in that I think Zenith
have acted fairly in relation  to the claim.  Taking that into account I think  £250 compensation
is appropriate. I dont think its fair for Zenith to have  withdrawn the offer of £500, but as I
think theyve acted  reasonably ordering them to pay the previous offer in full also doesnt feel
fair to me.
Mr K has told us about his personal circumstances  which meant he needed to get his car
Ref: DRN65547495back on the road as soon  as possible.  But Ive not seen anything to suggest  this meant he
wasnt able to get in touch with Zenith before the repairs were  carried out  or before the
engine had been removed from the garage premises. So I dont currently  plan to say that
Zenith should re-consider,  or pay, his claim.
My provisional decision
It follows I plan to partly  uphold this complaint and order Zenith Insurance  Plc to pay Mr K
£250. 
Ref: DRN6554749