K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Arrow Global Limited has mishandled her repayment  of a debt that it 
owns. 
background
In 1987 Mrs F took out a credit  card with a bank.  Unfortunately, due to a change  in her 
circumstances in 2009, Mrs F struggled with repayments. The bank arranged  for a third party  
company to service  the account on its behalf  and a payment rate of £20 per month was 
agreed and set in 2014. 
In February 2017  the debt was assigned  by the bank to Arrow Global. Both the bank  and 
Arrow Global  wrote  to Mrs F to notify  her of this change. Arrow Global said that it had 
appointed the same third party company as the bank had to collect the debt on its behalf and 
provided her with two reference numbers, one of which was the credit  card account number 
and the other was the company who would be servicing the accounts reference number for 
the account.
Mrs F continued to make  payments at the same rate under the 2014 agreement. The third 
party company had occasionally written to Mrs F offering a discount of at least  40% of the 
outstanding amount if she made  a lump  sum payment  of 60%.  These letters said that the 
current repayment arrangements  would remain active  if the offers werent  taken up. Mrs F 
says she wasnt in a position to pay a lump sum and so continued to make her £20 per 
month payments.
In November 2017 Mrs F made a payment of £35 and then a reduced  payment of £5 in 
December. The third party company wrote  to her saying shed missed  a payment. Mrs F 
didnt respond  to this letter but resumed £20 per month payments from January 2018.
In November 2018 the third party company offered  Mrs F a discount of 50% if she would pay 
the remaining  half as a lump sum. Mrs F said she again wasnt able to do so and continued 
paying as previously agreed.
In December 2018 the third party company wrote to Mrs F asking to review her repayments.  
It enclosed an income  and expenditure form to be completed and returned.  It reminded Mrs 
F that the agreement  for £20pm was informal and so if appropriate further  action may be 
taken. Mrs F didnt respond to this letter.
In January 2019 the third party company wrote  again to Mrs F saying it had not heard from 
her. It said that it believed  that her current  financial circumstances enabled her to repay her 
account over a considerably shorter period. This letter advised that County  Court  action 
may be taken and that if Mrs F didnt respond  within  the next 14 days then the account  
would be passed  to solicitors to consider  the commencement of legal proceedings. Mrs F 
didnt respond  to this letter.
At the end of January  2019 the third party company wrote  to Mrs F and said that as it hadnt 
heard from her it would  now pass the account  on to solicitors.
In March 2019 Arrow Global wrote to Mrs F and said the management of her account had 
been transferred  to a firm of solicitors. It provided  her with the solicitors contact details and 
the reference number the solicitors had applied to the account.  This letter  quoted a different 
Ref: DRN69461532account number,  gave the original  banks name, date of the original agreement and balance  
outstanding.
Mrs F says she received this letter but hadnt  received  the earlier correspondence. Mrs F 
says she was confused by the use of a different  account number  and thought Arrow Global 
had made  a mistake  with her account. She said that as this letter  directed  her to write to the 
solicitors she did so, querying the reference number used and the credit  card that it said she 
had taken out as she thought that was also incorrect.
The solicitors say they never received  this letter from Mrs F. However, a few days  after 
Arrow Globals March 2019  letter  the solicitors did write to Mrs F informing her that they had 
been instructed  by Arrow Global as they believe  that your current financial circumstances 
allow you to repay your account  over a reduced  period.  It reminded  Mrs F that although  she 
was making payments there was no formal arrangement in place. The solicitors requested  
Mrs F complete a financial statement and said if they didnt hear from her they would begin 
formal legal action  to recover the full outstanding  balance. This letter  quoted the same 
account number  as the one used in the letter by Arrow Global earlier that month.
The solicitors wrote again to Mrs F around  two weeks later requesting  that she made  contact 
and warning her if she didnt then legal proceedings would be commenced in the County 
Court.
Arrow Global  says that as no contact was made by Mrs F legal proceedings were started on 
its behalf by the solicitors  at the end of April 2019.  It wrote to Mrs F to inform her that this 
action had been taken and the County Court contacted  Mrs F about the case in May 2019.
In May 2019  Mrs F wrote a letter of complaint to the solicitors. She said she had written to 
them earlier to query the account number used by Arrow  Global in its letter  of March 2019 
informing her that her account was being referred to solicitors. Mrs F said she had found the 
comments that there was no formal  arrangement  in place, and the assertion that she could 
pay more, were inappropriate and had caused her distress. Mrs F said she had been  unable 
to comply with the time-limit set in the letter for response as she had needed to seek advice.  
Mrs F also queried why there  were two payments made by a credit  card recorded on her 
statement as she didnt  have this type of card and couldnt have made  those payments. 
The solicitors didnt  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. They  said they didnt  consider  that the letter 
sent to her had been inappropriate or inaccurate.
The solicitors said they had only used two reference numbers in their letter.  One was the 
reference number  for the account  that had been provided by Arrow Global and the other  
reference number  was the one theyd assigned to Mrs Fs account  so that they could trace it 
and keep an accurate  record of all activities. They also said they hadnt  provided  a statement 
of Mrs Fs account showing any credit card payments.
The solicitors apologised  if their reference  to Mrs F being able to clear the account in a 
shorter time had upset her, but this had been  included as there was no up to date 
information on her current  financial situation and it was possible that she was in a position to 
increase her payments. However, if the financial statement completed by Mrs F showed she 
was already paying the maximum then no increase would be applied  to her payments.  The 
solicitors said their conduct had been  appropriate.
Ref: DRN69461533Mrs F complained to this service as she thought Arrow Global was acting unfairly in 
commencing legal proceedings when she had been  making regular payments in line with the 
2014 agreement. Mrs F also said she was concerned there was an error  in the account 
Arrow Global  was seeking to enforce as there were different account numbers being used. 
Mrs F said she thought there  were  mistakes in her account and that Arrow Global wasnt 
being open and honest.
Arrow Global  sent Mrs F its final response letter in July 2019.  
Arrow Global  said there had been  several repayment plans put in place and history of 
repayments made towards  the balance.  It also said that the arrangement to pay £20 per 
month had been  put in place in August  2014  but had failed in December 2017  when only 
£5.00 had been paid though payments had been resumed afterwards.
Arrow Global  said that the third party company servicing the account  on its behalf  had 
written to Mrs F in December 2018  and January 2019 but no response had been  received. 
This had led to Arrow Globals decision to transfer the account to the solicitors.  It said that as 
no contact had been made with the solicitors,  court proceedings had been commenced.  
Arrow Global  said it wasnt upholding Mrs Fs complaint as it hadnt made an error  in the way 
it had handled  her account.  I 
Mrs F disagreed with the responses she received from both Arrow Global and the solicitors 
acting on its behalf.  After looking at the evidence our investigator recommended that Mrs Fs 
complaint should  be upheld.
Our investigator said that as both the third Party company  servicing the account and the 
solicitors had been acting as agents of Arrow Global any action taken or mistakes made by 
them would ultimately be the responsibility  of Arrow Global.
He agreed with Mrs F that the reference numbers quoted in the correspondence shed 
received had been confusing. Our investigator  said that the correspondence  Mrs F received 
about the debt from 2017  had used one reference number for the credit card account and 
another number  as Arrow Globals reference. But in March 2019  Arrow Global wrote to Mrs 
F and quoted a longer  reference number which was actually the credit  card long number 
though it had used the same reference  number. The solicitors  who also wrote to Mrs F in 
March 2019 had also quoted this long credit card number. Mrs F thought she was being  
erroneously chased  for two debts. Our investigator  said he accepted  the longer number was 
actually the long credit card number rather than the account number, so it was one and the 
same debt, but this wouldnt  have  been  obvious to Mrs F.
He said that in general he thought  the letters sent to Mrs F had been appropriate in tone but 
he didnt think the letters sent to Mrs F in January and March 2019  had been fair. These had 
said that Mrs Fs financial circumstances  had improved so she should  be able to pay off the 
debt faster  but there  wasnt  any evidence that had suggested such  an improvement. He also 
thought the letter from the solicitors had been inaccurate as it had said there was no 
repayment agreement  in place but earlier letters  sent to Mrs F referred to repayment plans 
and repayment arrangements being  in place. 
Our investigator said he thought it was fair for Arrow Global to want  to review Mrs Fs 
financial circumstances and whether the payments should be adjusted.  Mrs F had 
consistently paid and so it was reasonable to think she wanted to fulfil her obligations. He 
Ref: DRN69461534didnt think it was fair for Arrow Global  to say Mrs F hadnt engaged because there had been 
no contact
Our investigator said that he thought  if Mrs F hadnt  received the confusing  and misleading 
correspondence she would have got in touch with the solicitors sooner and court action  
would have been avoided. Our investigator said that he thought  it would be fair for Arrow 
Global to do the following:
Remove the additional fees of £556.11 and £100  that had been added  to Mrs Fs 
account
Either pay Mrs F £250 compensation for the unnecessary distress  shed  suffered or 
reduce her outstanding debt by that amount, though the choice of action was for Mrs 
F to decide
Consider if the account could now be passed back  to the third party company that 
had been servicing  the account rather than remain with the solicitors
Undertake a financial  review of Mrs Fs account and her payment rate
Mrs F agreed with our investigators view but Arrow Global  disagreed.  It said that although 
the letters sent to Mrs F in March 2019 had used a different number they had also quoted 
the correct banks name and the amount outstanding so it should have been clear  it was this 
debt that was raised. Arrow Global also said that if Mrs F had been confused then she 
should have queried the letters  directly with Arrow Global as that would  have been  a 
reasonable thing to do.
Arrow Global  said that it didnt accept the lack of response to the settlement offers as an 
indicator that Mrs Fs financial  position  was the same. And that it considered  Mrs F had not 
engaged as there had been  no contact from her since  2014 despite letters that had been  
sent including a letter in January 2018 about the missing payment in December 2017.  It said 
the investigators view was unfair.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the debt was only assigned to Arrow Global in February 2017 I have been able to 
see the earlier notes  of the third party company that has managed the account  on behalf of 
both the bank. 
Mrs F said it was unfair for action to be taken on her account as she had been making 
regular and consistent payments. I dont think thats disputed  though  Arrow Global says 
there was no formal repayment plan in place. Looking through the correspondence thats 
been provided Ive seen  a letter sent to Mrs F by the third party  company in June 2014 
thanking her for agreeing to a repayment  plan via a paying in book of £20 per month so I 
think Mrs F would have  reasonably assumed there was a formal agreement  in place. 
I also think that in the subsequent correspondence  sent to Mrs F in March  2017 informing 
her that, although the debt had been  assigned to Arrow Global  from the bank, this wouldnt 
Ref: DRN69461535affect any payment  arrangements in place  meant  she should  continue to pay as already 
agreed.
Ive also seen that between 2015 and 2017,  when  the debt was due to the bank, either Mrs F 
or her husband, received a letter  from third party company every  six months  requesting that 
they make  contact so that Mrs Fs financial circumstances could be reviewed. Arrow Global 
says there  was no contact  from Mrs F though  her husband said he did respond on her behalf 
and that there is correspondence missing. Looking at the contact notes provided by the third 
party company I cant  see there  was any correspondence  from Mrs Fs husband about her 
financial circumstances so I dont  think I can reasonably say her payments  had been  subject 
to a review.
However, I think even if there  had been contact in the past and payments were being made 
regularly that Arrow  Global was still entitled  from time to time to review  the account and 
check whether the amount of the payments were appropriate. This is because Mrs Fs 
financial circumstances could have  got worse as well as better  and its responsible of Arrow 
Global to check that payments were manageable for Mrs F. I think Arrow Global was acting  
fairly when  it sent a letter to Mrs F in December 2018 asking for her to complete an income 
and outgoings  form.
Mrs F says she didnt  get this letter but also says that its in contradiction  to the letter sent 
the month before in November 2018 when an offer to settle was made with a discount on the 
outstanding amount if a lump sum payment could be made.  Mrs F says the offer letter sets 
out that if the discounted repayment cant  be taken  up then the current repayment 
arrangement will remain active.  But, as set out above, I think Arrow  Global was acting fairly 
in seeking to review  Mrs Fs account.
Arrow Global  says Mrs F didnt engage  with it and this ultimately led to the issuing  of the 
court proceedings. Ive seen Mrs F firstly didnt respond to the letter sent to her in January 
2018 about the reduced December 2017  payment. But that lack of response doesnt surprise 
me as Ive seen that a larger payment had actually been made  in November 2017 and then 
the same  £20pm paid in January 2018 meaning that in reality the correct  amount had been  
paid over those three months. I also dont think this shows there was a break  in the £20 per 
month payments.
I also dont think Mrs F was required  to respond  to the offer letter sent in November 2018 
since she wasnt taking advantage of it.
Ive seen that letters were then sent out in December  2018 and January 2019 and that the 
consequence of not replying was set out clearly in them. Mrs F says she didnt receive any 
of these three letters but I think  its more likely  than not that they were  posted so I cant 
reasonably say it was Arrow Globals fault that they didnt  arrive.
Mrs F says she did get the March  2019 letter from Arrow Global setting  out that due to the 
lack of response the account had been passed  to solicitors for action to be taken on its 
account. This letter does say Mrs F should contact the solicitors rather  than itself.  This letter  
also uses a reference  number Mrs F didnt recognise. Mrs F said she wrote to the solicitors 
asking for further  information about  the account  they were going  to enforce and pointing out 
that the account number was incorrect. The solicitors say they never  received this letter  and 
I think its more likely than not thats  correct as they could have easily  addressed Mrs Fs 
concerns and discussed the account with her.
Ref: DRN69461536Mrs F agrees she received the letters from the solicitors but didnt attempt to make  further  
contact as she didnt  think she would be listened  to about her concerns.
I agree  with our investigator that Arrow  Global using  the different  account number in its 
March 2019 letter would  have confused Mrs F. Ive seen that this same  longer account 
number was used  on the periodic statement of account sent to Mrs F by Arrow Global in 
April 2018, but that other correspondence uses a shorter  and different account number. So I 
dont think she would  have recognised  it or been familiar with it. 
However, Im satisfied on the evidence that Ive seen that Arrow Global was only seeking 
repayment on the one account  and that this was the debt incurred by Mrs F through  the 
credit card. So I dont  think Arrow Global was trying  to get Mrs F to repay a debt she didnt 
owe.
Mrs F has queried  why there are two payments in a statement she was sent by Arrow Global 
that say they were  made by a credit card in March and April 2017. She says as she doesnt  
have a credit  card and that this shows there are errors in her account  and on her balance.  
Arrow Global  has investigated  this and says that its an admin error that these payments 
have been recorded as being made  by a credit card. While  I appreciate  these two payments 
have caused Mrs F concern Im satisfied that her account balance is correct. Ive seen that 
its recorded shes made regular monthly payments and her balance  is reducing accordingly 
and although the method of payment may be incorrectly recorded the crediting to her 
account is accurate.
Arrow Global  says that Mrs F should have done more to make contact with either it or the 
solicitors if she was confused and that it hasnt acted incorrectly  in commencing legal 
proceedings.
Although Mrs F wrote to the solicitors in March 2019 Ive seen that this letter didnt arrive. I 
dont think Mrs F disagrees that her next contact  wasnt until May 2019 which was after the 
proceedings at the County Court had been  issued. And although I understand Mrs F was 
upset and confused by the letters she had received, I agree she could have been more  
proactive. Its reasonable to have expected Mrs F to have  contacted  the solicitors when the 
contents of her letter sent to them in March 2019 werent addressed  in the solicitors 
subsequent correspondence. 
So, although  I can understand why Mrs F didnt take action thinking shed be ignored, I think 
the consequences of ignoring  the letters were set out in the ones she received. And even if 
Mrs F felt she had insufficient time to address the matters that were raised she could have 
sought more time.  By doing  nothing  Im not surprised that Arrow Global took the action that it 
did. However, I also think Arrow Global actions  werent entirely fair to Mrs F.
As Ive already  said I think the use of a different account number caused confusion  for Mrs F 
which I accepted  she had queried with the solicitors  in March 2019. Ive also seen that Mrs F 
referred to her earlier letter when she wrote  her letter of complaint  to the solicitors in May 
2019. I dont know  why the solicitors  failed to pick up on this and ask about  it when 
responding to her. I think this was a missed opportunity  to ascertain there had been  broken 
lines of communication  on both sides.
Mrs F was also distressed that it had been  taken  she could increase her payments on the 
account. I cant see Arrow Global had any evidence on which  to make that assertion and so 
its instruction to the solicitors should have  been more carefully worded. I also disagree that 
Ref: DRN69461537Mrs F could  reasonably be considered by Arrow Global  as someone who wasnt engaging 
with it over her debt. She had made regular payments for several years and there was no 
suggestion she was not taking her liability seriously.
So, although  I accept  Arrow Global was entitled to review the account  and that when no 
response was received  to look at escalating the matter, I think it should have been clearer  in 
its March 2019  letter to Mrs F about why it was passing the matter on and been clearer in its 
instructions to the solicitor the basis for its action.
So, for the reasons given above,  I intend to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint. I am asking Arrow 
Global to remove the additional  fees of £556.11 and £100 that have been added  to Mrs Fs 
account. And for it to pay Mrs F £250  compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the issuing  of the legal proceedings. I think  that, without the breakdown in 
communication with Mrs F, she would have engaged with the solicitors and completed the 
required income and expenses form allowing for a financial review to have been  undertaken 
meaning the legal proceedings would have  been unnecessary.  
I would also ask if Arrow Global would consider if Mrs Fs account  could  now be passed  
back to the third party company that has been servicing her account rather  than it remain  
with the solicitors and for a financial review of Mrs Fs account to be undertaken.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Fs complaint and Im asking Arrow Global 
Limited to do the following:
Remove the additional fees of £556.11 and £100  that had been added  to Mrs Fs 
account
Either pay Mrs F £250 compensation for the unnecessary distress  shed  suffered or 
reduce her outstanding debt by that amount, though the choice of action is for Mrs F 
to decide
Consider if the account could now be passed back  to the third party company that 
had been servicing  the account rather than remain with the solicitors
Undertake a financial  review of Mrs Fs account and her payment rate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946153