K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that the loan she had from Everyday Lending Limited  (trading as Everyday 
Loans) was unaffordable  to her.
background
Mrs F took out a loan with Everyday Loans  on 1 February 2012.  She borrowed £2,000 and 
was due to repay £206.99 monthly for 24 months, finishing on 1 February 2014. Alongside 
the loan, Mrs F also took out Repayment  Protection  Insurance. She borrowed £180 for this 
and repaid £18.63 per month.  The loan was repaid on 13 August 2015.
Mrs F says that Everyday Loans  didnt carry out enough checks  as her credit  file would have 
shown it was unaffordable. She says she felt pressured into taking the loan and she only 
managed a couple of payments before  going into a debt management plan (DMP) in April 
2012. Mrs F says that Everyday Loans spoke to her mum  about the debt without her 
permission and didnt  freeze her interest  when she was on the DMP which,  she says,  meant 
the loan was being paid off extremely slowly. As a result, Mrs F explains she had to borrow 
money from her mother to repay the loan.
Mrs F adds  that Everyday Loans did not address her concerns about affordability and the 
interest it charged as it said shed  complained  more  than six years after shed taken out the 
loan. Mrs F explained the series of stressful events that affected her mental health, meaning 
she wasnt mentally strong enough to address the issues with the loan until recently.
Everyday Loans  initially responded  to say that the complaint was out of jurisdiction as Mrs F 
complained more than six years  after shed taken out the loan. However, it has now agreed 
for this service to consider  the complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He wasnt  satisfied Everyday 
Loanss checks went far enough  based  on what it could see on her credit report. He said the 
amount of credit Mrs F already had should  have prompted Everyday  Loans  to carry out a full 
financial review. He said, had it done  so, its likely to have found the loan was unaffordable  
to her. Our adjudicator recommended  Everyday  Loans should  refund all interest and charges 
paid on the loan (plus 8% interest) and remove adverse information from Mrs Fs credit  file.
Everyday Loans  responded to say, in summary,  that it obtained bank statements and pay 
slips and carried out a job and credit check before it approved the loan. It says there  was no 
evidence of short-term  loans and the loan was used for debt consolidation. Everyday Loans 
adds that Mrs F was living with her parents and taking  into account her rent and an estimate  
for other expenses, it says it found the loan was sustainable over 24 months.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mrs F and to Everyday Loans  on 16 March 2021. The 
relevant guidelines were  outlined in the provisional decision so I wont  repeat them here.
Ref: DRN69124492I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks  which showed:
oMrs F lived with her parents and was using the loan for debt consolidation;
oHer average monthly income was £1,435 and she paid rent of £150;
oMrs Fs existing credit included:
A seven-year  loan from March 2011  it had a balance of £6,636,  with 
monthly repayments of £166;
A mail order  account  with a credit  limit of £3,575  the balance  on the 
credit report was £450,  but I could see Everyday Loans had obtained  
a current statement  showing a balance of £1,660.90  in January 2012;
A credit card with a credit limit of £4,300 and a balance  of £4,295;
Four other credit cards with a combined balance of around £1,300;
oMrs F had six active telecoms  accounts, to which she made payments of over 
£240 in December  2011;
oTravel  expenses of around £330 per month;
oOther expenditure on insurances, internet costs, food and account fees of 
over £100;
Based  on the above, I considered Everyday Loans should  have  reasonably 
suspected Mrs F wouldnt be able to sustainably repay a further £225.62 per month 
because:
oThe loan was over a term of 24 months  and Everyday Loans needed to 
ensure the repayments were sustainable over that period;
oAlthough I can see that the loan was used to repay  the balances  on the four 
smaller credit  cards, and part of the mail order account balance,  Mrs F still 
had monthly credit  commitments of £300 on the existing loan and the 
remaining credit  card;
oEveryday  Loans needed to have regard to what its checks showed including 
Mrs Fs living  arrangements  and her actual  expenditure as shown in her bank 
statements;
So, I estimated Mrs Fs disposable income  each month was around £315 per month, 
before the additional payments to the mail order  company  were  taken into account;
With the new loan,  Mrs F would have been  spending around  40% of her net income  
on consumer credit, which should have  been a clear  indication to Everyday Loans  
that Mrs F may have  been struggling  to manage  her money:
oThe Finance  and Leasing Associations (FLA) Lending Code 2006 says 
factors  which may show a high risk of experiencing financial 
difficultyinclude:
spending more  than 25% of your gross income  (before deductions) on 
consumer credit.
Ref: DRN69124493The Irresponsible Lending Guide  (ILG) 4.26 says that an example of unfair  lending  practice  
is Granting  an application for credit  when, on the basis of an affordability assessment,  it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable .
In this case, I considered Everyday Loans should  reasonably have suspected that the 
repayments over 24 months were  likely  to be unsustainable for Mrs F. Indeed, I noted that 
she went into a debt management plan shortly after taking out the loan.
In summary,  I found it was irresponsible to lend to Mrs F and Everyday  Loans  did not make 
a fair lending decision. As such, it followed that it also should  not have sold Mrs F the 
associated repayment  protection insurance  and Mrs F should also be compensated for that.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs Fs complaint.
Mrs F responded to say she accepted  my provisional decision.
Everyday Loans  responded to say that it wasnt sure why the Finance and Leasing 
Associations Lending Code from 2006 was referenced when the loan was issued in 2012, 
after a new code was available. It accepted all other points in the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the reference  to the FLAs  Lending  Code from 2006,  I accept that Mrs F took 
out her loan the same day the FLA issued its new Lending Code in 2012. The obligations of 
a responsible  lender  remained fundamentally  unchanged and the 2012 guidance says:
responsible lendersmust  make sure that all loan applications go through 
acredit assessment  which assesses  [ a consumers] ability to repay [the] loan 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment may look at:
o[a consumers] credit commitments and financial situation;
Although the level of credit commitment is not quantified in the 2012 guidance, I considered  
it useful to quote the 25% of your gross income  guidance from 2006 as an indication  that 
Mrs F may be experiencing financial difficulty, given her spend on consumer credit was 
significantly higher  than this figure.
In summary,  as neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) should:
Ref: DRN69124494A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest, fees and 
charges on the loan;
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs F which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C.Pay Mrs F the total of A plus B;
D.Refund to Mrs F all payments she made with respect to the repayment protection  
insurance plus 8% simple interest* calculated  from the date Mrs F originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
E.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday  Loans to deduct  tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans  should give Mrs F a certificate  showing  how much tax its deducted,  if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6912449