K820x#14Complaint
Miss O complains  that Future Finance Loan  Corporation Limited didnt tell her that an agreed  
reduced repayment plan for her loan was only valid for three months. This meant that 
adverse information  was recorded on her credit  file when she didnt make full payments in 
the months after it ended.
Background
Miss O took out a loan with Future  Finance which  started in January 2018.  The loan was to 
pay for her studies and had lower loan repayments while Miss O was a student.  But by 
October 2018, Miss O was experiencing health  concerns  and made a decision to withdraw 
from her course. This also meant  she was having  difficulty meeting the loan repayments and 
contacted Future  Finance about  this. It agreed  to accept  a reduced payment but Miss O 
didnt realise that this was only for a three  month period. And Future Finance didnt contact 
Miss O to say that the arrangement was ending. So Miss O carried  on paying the reduced 
amount. 
But the required payments for the loan had increased, partly  because she was no longer  
studying and partly because of the capitalisation of the arrears that had built up by her 
paying the reduced amount.
In May 2019, Miss O complained about  the impact of the reduced payment arrangement had 
had on her credit file. She said this hadnt  been  made clear  to her.
Future Finance  acknowledged that it hadnt contacted Miss O when  the arrangement ended,  
and it apologised  for this. It agreed  to backdate a reduced payment arrangement to March  
for three months, and said it would amend its reporting on her credit file to reflect this. It also 
said it would  remove the late payment  marker  from January and would capitalise the arrears 
that had built up onto the loan amount. However, Miss O hadnt made a payment in February  
2019, so it said its reporting about  this wouldnt be changed.
Miss O said that she hadnt made a payment in February as shed been  told that she owed 
an amount of £471.90 and shed been questioning why this was. She said shed phoned in 
March 2019 and was told not to worry about the payment.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
thought that Future Finance couldve made  the terms  of the reduced payment arrangement 
clearer to Miss O. But she said she thought it had made Miss O aware  of the potential risk of 
accepting the arrangement,  and that it had made  Miss O aware  that there was an 
outstanding amount that she owed. Overall,  the investigator thought  Future Finance had 
kept Miss O up-to-date  with the details  of her account; attempted to call her and sent 
payment reminders.  She didnt think it should have to amend the missed  payment 
notification for February from Miss Os credit record.
Miss O didnt  accept the investigators findings and asked  for the complaint to be reviewed.  
She said Future Finance had failed to tell her that the reduced  repayment plan was only for a 
three month period and this has impacted  upon  her credit record.  She said she was never 
made aware  about  the February payment and feels that the missed payment record for that 
month should be amended.
Ref: DRN61359362My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry  to hear about Miss Os situation and circumstances in relation to her health. I 
can understand how this has impacted on her and specifically  what  this meant in terms of 
the repayment of this loan.
I can see that Miss O initially contacted Future  Finance to let it know  about her health  
situation and asked if she could put the loan repayments on hold.  However, it said the loan 
repayments would still be expected in accordance  with the agreement  but it said it would 
work with Miss O if she was experiencing financial  difficulties and asked her to provide some 
more information.  In response to her query, Future  Finance  explained that it could agree a 
reduced payment  arrangement. It said:
This is known as a forbearance arrangement. During the time of your forbearance 
arrangement, interest is suppressed on your account, however as you are not meeting the 
full payment due, an arrears balance will be accumulating  on the account. However, should 
you meet  the terms of your repayment arrangement;  these arrears  will be capitalized onto 
your loan at the end of the arrangement period, spread out over the remaining term of your 
loan. Your credit file will be updated to reflect this arrangement and this may negatively 
impact your credit file.
Future Finance  then said it would agree to Miss Os proposal to pay £25 a month  and asked 
her some questions. But, as it didnt receive a response, the reduced  payment arrangement  
wasnt put in place until she contacted it again  later that month.  
In January 2019, Miss O contacted Future Finance to say that she didnt think shed be able 
to make any more payments for the following few months. And it responded to say that 
Miss Os arrangement expired in December 2018. It said it could  extend  the reduced  
repayment arrangement  but couldnt leave the account unpaid as it would  be at risk of 
defaulting.
I do appreciate the point  that Miss O has made that she was unaware of the impact  of 
accepting a reduced payment arrangement would have on her credit  file. However, I think  
this was made clear  to her in the explanation  of the forbearance agreement.  I have also 
seen that some of Future Finances emails to Miss O ended by saying: "Please note that 
any late payments will have a negative impact on your credit file". 
If theres been an arrangement that a consumer may pay reduced amounts towards a debt 
then thatll be reflected in their credit report. But a repayment arrangement doesnt mean that 
the contractual repayments due under the original agreement have changed.
Future Finance  has acknowledged that it didnt give Miss O notice  when her original reduced 
payment arrangement expired. But I think the actions it has taken recognise this. It has 
apologised; capitalised the arrears  back onto the loan and backdated  a repayment 
arrangement for March  to May. It has also agreed to amend her credit file relating to the 
payment of £25 she made in January. 
Ref: DRN61359363I can see from her account statement that Miss O didnt make a payment towards her loan in 
February before her payment due date, but that a payment was made in early  March. Miss O 
has said this was because she was disputing the amount Future Finance had said was 
outstanding, but she didnt receive a response  to this. 
However, Future Finance told Miss O she was two contractual repayments behind at this 
time. It also responded  to her question about her remaining  balance  and sent her a reminder 
that her payment  was due. The monthly  repayment amount had increased because  of the 
arrears but also because she was no longer studying. I can see from her loan agreement 
that a feature of the loan was that the repayments  to it would be lower while she was still a 
student. 
Overall, although I can understand that Miss O has looked to maintain contact with Future  
Finance while  she was experiencing a difficult time, I think  that it has responded fairly to her 
complaint. It looked to keep her up-to-date when payments were due and agreed a reduced 
payment arrangement to help her with her finances. I think  it made  her sufficiently aware  that 
accepting this may impact  on her credit record. I dont think  Future Finance should be 
required to make any further amendments to her credit file when this reflects  how shes 
managed her loan account. Future Finance has a responsibility to report  accurate and up-to-
date information  to credit reference agencies, and I think thats what  it has done here.
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6135936