K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 2004. Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
background
In 2003 Mr B took out a loan with Nationwide. In 2004 he took out another  loan, using some 
of this money to repay the existing loan from 2003.  It was with this loan in 2004 that he took 
out the PPI cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed and so the complaint had been  
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B has said the PPI was taken  out during a meeting  in branch but Nationwide has said that 
the sale took place in a phone call and then the paperwork  was posted to him. Based on 
what Ive seen on file I think its more likely that this was a sale that took place over the 
phone. Nationwide no longer has a copy of the call recording which is understandable given  
that this sale took place  quite some time ago but it has provided  a copy of the sales script 
from around that time which  it says it expected its staff to follow.  Whilst I dont know for 
certain what was said during the telephone call I think  this document gives  a good  idea of the 
structure of the call. And, having looked  at this script  I can see that it directs the 
representative to give quotes for the loan with and without the PPI so I think Mr B would 
have known he didnt  have to take it out.
Nationwide has been able to provide a copy of the loan agreement which it says would have 
been sent to Mr B after the telephone  call. I can see that the PPI is described on this loan 
agreement as Optional  Credit Insurance  and the full details of the cost are given.  So I think  
its likely  that Nationwide obtained  Mr Bs consent to add the PPI to the loan during the call 
and this is why it appears on the loan agreement. Mr B has signed the agreement which 
suggests he agreed with everything that had been  entered on it.
Mr B has said that the perception was that he had to take out PPI with any loan or mortgage 
and so he felt pressured into taking it. But Ive noted that Mr B chose not to take out PPI with 
his initial  loan in 2003, which would suggest he was aware that he could take out a loan 
without the cover. And, as mentioned  before, I think its likely  Mr B would have been given 
quotes for the loan with and without  the insurance cost so I think he would have been aware 
that the cover wasnt compulsory.
So, on balance,  I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr B didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant recall  this now.
Ref: DRN62003522Mr B says he received  advice about the cover. Nationwide disagrees. Based on what we 
know about the way Nationwide sold these  types  of policies, along with the documentation I 
have seen, I think its more likely  that Nationwide didnt recommend the cover to Mr B. This 
means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the 
information he needed to decide for himself  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something  went wrong. And whilst Ive noted Mr B has told us that he 
suffered financial difficulty, I havent seen anything specific to show  that the PPI wasnt  
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Some single  premium PPI policies didnt give proportional refunds if the loan (and need  for 
PPI) ended  early, and that wasnt always  made clear. But this loan from Nationwide did give 
a proportionate refund, so had Mr B repaid the loan early he would only have paid for the 
period of cover he actually used.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide  should  also pay back  to Mr B any extra  interest 
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr B the extra he paid each month  on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium - including  any extra 
Mr B paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also pay Mr B 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN62003523my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200352