K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Mr S 
says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the policy.
background
Mr S bought the policy hes complained  about online in 2011 when he applied  for a credit 
card. 
Having had the complaint rejected by Capital One,  Mr S referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
And having done that, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
As Ive said above,  the policy was sold over the internet. Capital One has provided us with 
screen shots of what it says was its online application process at the time. Having looked at 
these and thought about what I know about its online sales  process,  applicants  were given a 
choice when deciding  to take PPI. And as Mr S was likely to have had the time and space 
normally associated with an online application  to make that choice, I think  the fact that he 
ended up taking the policy (which his credit  agreement  indicates he did) is the likely  result of 
his decision to take it as theres  nothing persuasive to suggest otherwise.
So I think its more likely  Mr S agreed  to take PPI knowing he didnt have  to.
As the policy was sold online, there  was little to no involvement by Capital  One other than 
the provision of the online application  form. So Im satisfied that it didnt recommend the PPI 
to Mr S  which means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have  to make 
sure he got the information he needed to decide  that for himself.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what  hes told us about his circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the cover.  And given 
his limited sick pay, it looks like he had a need for it. So Im persuaded the policy could have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr S has told us that he would have  had help from family. So Ive thought about this 
carefully. However, the monthly repayments were ultimately his responsibility. And the 
circumstances of others can change. So Im not persuaded that this is a reason to uphold 
the complaint.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back the entire cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN66508932But Capital One has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because it got  
a high level of commission  and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI premiums) - so it 
should have told him about that. Because Capital  One didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. And in light of what Ive said above, I think  
that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold  which  means 
Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back the entire cost of the PPI to Mr S.
However, Capital One (Europe)  plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.  And I understand  it has 
already sent Mr S a cheque with that being the case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6650893