K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1996 alongside a Visa and MasterCard  credit card. Ms B says Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) mis-sold  her the PPI policies. 
background
Ms B applied for the credit  cards and PPI through a branch application in May 1996.  The PPI 
provided cover in the event Ms B was unable to work because of an accident or sickness, or 
if she lost her job. The PPI also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
As Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Ms B feels very strongly about  her complaint. Ms B says she was told she had to have  PPI in 
order to get the credit  cards.
Barclays has provided a copy of Ms Bs credit card application from 1996. Ms B had to 
complete one application form for both credit  cards. On the application form Ms B had to 
actively tick to select  PPI. She had a choice to select  yes or no. So while  I know that Ms B 
feels very strongly that she was told she had to have  the PPI, the application form does 
show she had a choice  about taking PPI. 
Based on the evidence,  I think Barclays  made  it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that she chose to take it out.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Ms B. So it had to check the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think it was. For example, 
she was eligible for the cover, wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
At the time,  Ms B had been with her employer for around seven months. Ms B has told us 
she would  have received around  three  months pay if she was unable  to work because  of an 
accident or sickness. 
Ref: DRN63154572In the event of a successful claim because of an accident or sickness, the PPI would have 
paid 10% of the outstanding balance on her credit card for up to 12 months. And it would 
have paid out over and above any sick pay Ms B received. So those employee benefits 
could have been used for other  essential outgoings. The PPI could have been a useful 
benefit at whats  likely  to have been a difficult time if Ms B was unable  to work and 
particularly if she was unable to work  for a lengthy  period. 
As Ms B had been with her employer for around  seven months, she wouldnt have received 
much redundancy pay if she lost her job. The PPI would have paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance on her credit card for up to 12 months if Ms B lost her job.
Ms B also told us she had some  savings (about three months  worth  of her salary)  and had 
very little outgoings at the time so could have met her repayments.  But insurance is there to 
protect against the unforeseen.  Having the insurance provided the security  that Ms B 
wouldnt have had to use her savings and could  have  her card repayments  met, if she was 
unable to work or lost her job.
All things  considered, I think Ms B would have found the PPI useful and I cant  fairly say the 
advisers recommendation  was unsuitable or unreasonable.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Overall, based on the available  information  I have regarding the sale, the PPI policy,  Ms Bs 
circumstances and testimony about  the sale, I dont think  this PPI policy was mis-sold.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Ms B.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ms B had a concern  that Barclays commission offer was low. One of our adjudicators  looked  
into this and agreed and thought Barclays hadnt  got it quite right.  Our adjudicator  went back 
to Barclays explaining why he thought it had got it wrong. Barclays  agreed and revisited its 
offer. Our adjudicator  thought Barclays revised offer was fair and explained this to Ms B who 
also agreed and now accepts Barclays offer.
Having looked  at Barclays revised commission offer Im also satisfied that Barclays  has now 
offered fair compensation that is in accordance with the FCAs rules and guidance, and 
remedies the unfair  relationship caused by the non-disclosure of the high level of 
commission and profit share it received  from the PPI.
Ref: DRN63154573putting things right
As the updated  commission compensation hasnt been paid, Barclays  should arrange 
payment ensuring  the offer is brought up to date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, the PPI wasnt mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms B any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Im satisfied Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has 
now worked out the offer fairly. 
As the updated  commission compensation hasnt been paid, Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should 
pay Ms B ensuring the compensation is brought up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6315457