K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs J. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs J was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs J disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs J has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  This is 
because:
 The form that Mrs J used to apply for the credit account  does  set out the PPI as a 
choice, which you make  by ticking a box in the payment protection section.  So I think 
shed have known  she had a choice  though  it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt now 
remember every detail  of what happened, given that this was over 23 years  ago. 
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Js individual needs. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs J to decide whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs J clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mrs J. So Ive thought about whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs Js circumstances at the time,  even if shed  
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have  
paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been  in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many  
alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account  for long, if she lost her 
income; and even if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. So the PPI 
is likely  still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Ref: DRN63571452Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  7 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6357145