K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that MYJAR  Limited  gave  her loans that she couldnt afford.
background
Miss G took out three short term loans with MYJAR. Loans 1 and 2 were repayable by three 
monthly instalments.  Loan 3 was repayable by 12 monthly instalments. Loan 3 hasnt been 
repaid. Miss Gs loan history is as follows:-
Loan number 
Date of 
LoanLoan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount   Repayment date
1. 12/6/2015 £300 £146.59 20/10/2015
2. 27/2/2018 £425 £222.07 15/3/2018
3. 7/4/2018 £3,600 £530.42 Unpaid
Miss G said that she had other payday  loans and was gambling at the time of Loan  1. She 
said that she was in a debt management  plan at the time of Loan 2. And she had just repaid 
the loans in her debt management plan before Loan 3.
MYJAR said that it had asked Miss G for her income and regular expenditure and conducted 
a credit check. It also took into account  a minimum amount for household expenditure and 
Miss Gs borrowing  from other lenders. MYJAR said that it concluded from its affordability 
checks that repaying the loans wouldnt have become difficult  for Miss G.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He couldnt  see that 
MYJARs credit checks showed  a debt management  plan.
Miss G disagreed. She said that her credit report showed that she was on a debt 
management plan.  She couldnt afford  the repayments on Loan 2 and this led her to borrow  
Loan 3. As Loan 3 was for a high amount,  further checks should have been carried out 
including asking for her bank statements.  Miss G said that MYJAR should have taken into 
account the number of other loans she had and the amounts of those loans which were 
shown on her credit file.
The adjudicator responded to say that the checks carried  out by MYJAR  were proportionate 
to the amount Miss G had borrowed taking into account her income and expenditure.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss G 
and to MYJAR on 7 October 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that I noted that when MYJAR  lent to Miss G the regulator was the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and relevant regulations  and guidance included its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC).  The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible 
lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure 
Ref: DRN62922452Miss G could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that MYJAR  was required to establish  whether Miss G could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Gs complaint.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss G. I noted from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Miss Gs income as well as details about her housing  costs, 
other monthly expenses  and other  credit  commitments. MYJAR had used statistical  
expenditure data and revised Miss Gs stated  outgoings upwards to take account of these. I 
also noted that MYJAR had carried out a credit check and had seen a summary of the credit  
checks for all the loans.
Id also seen Miss Gs credit report.  This showed that Miss G had other  short term loans and 
a recent  defaulted  account with another lender before Loan 3. I was aware that when  a 
lender carried out a credit search, the information it saw didnt usually provide the same level 
of detail that a consumers  credit  search  would  and it wasnt necessarily  up to date. A lender 
might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing  or 
Ref: DRN62922453anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and short term lenders reported to the 
same credit reference agencies. So, Miss Gs defaulted account  and other  short term loans 
might not have been identified by MYJARs credit check. So, this might  have explained any 
differences between  the information provided by MYJARs credit check and Miss Gs actual 
situation.
Id also noted  that Miss G had said that she was in a debt management plan before Loan 2. 
But although  the summary  of MYJARs checks Id seen  had a column headed  debt 
management plan probability, the column  contained no entries.  So I couldnt safely conclude 
that MYJAR  was aware that Miss G was in a debt management plan.
Id thought about whether  MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loan 1, Miss G needed  to make three  monthly  repayments of varying amounts up to 
£146.59 to repay it. I could see that the repayments were relatively modest compared to the 
income of £2,500 Miss G had declared  to MYJAR. I also noted that Miss Gs adjusted  
expenditure was £1,190.  
Id noted that MYJARs credit check showed  shed opened seven new accounts in the 
previous three months and that her unsecured loan balances were  estimated to be £3,200.  I 
could see that Miss Gs other borrowing might have suggested to MYJAR that her finances  
were under pressure. But I didnt  think the repayment amounts were  so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused  Miss G financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing  Loan  1 were 
proportionate. And given  Miss Gs repayment amounts for Loan 1, what was apparent  about 
her circumstances at the time, and that this was her first loan with the lender, I didnt think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to have asked her for the amount of information that 
would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss G had provided  or the 
information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong  to give Loan  1 to 
Miss G.
Loan 1 was repaid around seven  weeks late. Nevertheless as Loan 2 was taken out around 
28 months later, I thought it was reasonable for MYJAR to treat Miss G as a new customer  
before Loan 2. 
The loan amount for Loan 2 was £425 but was still repayable by three monthly  instalments  
with a highest monthly repayment amount of £222.07. Miss Gs declared income had 
increased to £3,000. But her declared  expenditure had decreased as she hadnt declared 
any housing costs. Id also noted  that MYJARs  credit check showed that Miss G had taken 
out one new credit account  in the previous three months. It also appeared that her 
unsecured debt had increased to an estimated amount of £9,060. Nevertheless, I thought  
that the repayments that Miss G needed to make  on Loan  2 were still relatively modest 
compared to the income that shed  declared to MYJAR.  And I didnt think the repayment  
amounts were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Miss G financial difficulty.
So given Miss Gs repayment amounts for Loan 2 and what was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to have 
asked her for the amount  of information that would have been  needed  to show the lending 
was unsustainable.   
Ref: DRN62922454And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss G provided  or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong  to give Loan 2 to Miss G.
Id appreciated  that Miss G had said that she was gambling heavily before her loans. But 
that wasnt something shed told MYJAR about  when shed asked for her loans.  So unless 
Miss G had disclosed her gambling  problem,  I couldnt say that MYJAR would have found 
out about it with the proportionate  checks it had made before Loans  1 and 2 which I thought  
were fair. 
Loan 2 was repaid early.  I thought this might  have caused MYJAR some concerns about  
Miss Gs finances. And Loan 3 was taken  out around three  weeks  later.  The loan amount 
and monthly repayment  amounts had increased significantly to £3,600 and around £530.42 
respectively. Id noted that Loan  3 was repayable over 12 months. So the amount that 
Miss G needed to repay each time was smaller  than if shed taken a normal payday loan. 
But Id noted that she was committing to making  those repayments  over a far longer period  
than her previous  loans.  And I thought there was a greater possibility of Miss G finding the 
loan repayments  unsustainable. Id also noted  that MYJARs credit checks  before Loan  3 
showed that shed taken  five new credit accounts  in the previous three months and the 
balances on five accounts had increased  in the previous three months.  Moreover her 
estimated unsecured debt had again  increased to £10,920. I thought all this should have 
suggested to MYJAR  that Miss G was having  problems managing her money. 
Id appreciated  that MYJAR  had asked Miss G for her income and expenditure. But I thought 
for the reasons set out above  that it wasnt reasonable for MYJAR to have relied on that 
information. So I thought this should have prompted MYJAR to have made  some  additional  
checks such as asking  Miss G for more  information about her short term borrowing 
commitments.
Had it done so, MYJAR  would have discovered  that Miss G was borrowing from at least 
three other short term lenders and was committed to repaying them at the same time as 
shed be repaying  Loan 3. I had seen these loans on Miss Gs credit report and bank 
statements. 
So I thought  it would  have been clear to MYJAR if it had made proportionate checks  that 
Miss G was facing problems managing her money  and unlikely to be able repay Loan 3 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I didnt think MYJAR should have provided Loan 3 to Miss G.
Subject to any further representations by Miss G or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  MYJAR to put things right as 
follows. 
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
Refund all interest  and charges Miss G paid on Loan 3 and pay interest of 8% simple 
a year on such refunded  interest and charges from the date they were  paid to the 
date of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
Ref: DRN62922455Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 and 
pay any balance to Miss G; 
Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 3 from Miss Gs credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with my findings and 
had no further  information to add.
MYJAR responded  to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with it. It also said that it 
was more than willing to set up an affordable repayment plan towards  the outstanding 
balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Miss G and MYJAR have accepted my provisional  decision and given  me 
nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require MYJAR to pay 
Miss G some  compensation as set out below.
I understand that there is a large  balance outstanding on Loan 3 and note that MYJAR has 
said that it is willing to set up an affordable repayment plan. I would remind  MYJAR of its 
responsibility to treat Miss G in a positive and sympathetic manner  about  the amounts  she 
should repay. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order MYJAR Limited to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss G paid on Loan 3 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
3.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 
and pay any balance  to Miss G; and
4.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 3 from Miss Gs credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If MYJAR 
Ref: DRN62922456intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6292245