K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance to her alongside a store card in 2002. 
I know that PPI was sold to Miss B in a shop. But FICL is responsible for complaints like this. 
So Ill refer to FICL for the rest of this decision.  
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Miss B didnt agree with that 
view. In summary she said she wasnt given an informed choice when PPI was sold to her. 
And she said she was told she had to have the cover  she said that she wasnt  given an 
opt-out option.  
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain the reasons 
why below. 
Its agreed between the parties that Miss B took this policy  out in a store.  I cant know  what 
was said to Miss B at the point of sale. So to help me decide whats  likely to have happened,  
Ive looked at what Miss B remembers about  the sale and what FICL told us about it. Ive 
also had the benefit of seeing the application  form that Miss B completed  at the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Miss B would have known this PPI policy  was 
optional and she didnt  have to buy it if she didnt want it. I can see that Miss B was clear  
with our adjudicator  that she remembered the application form had been pre-populated  and 
that she was told PPI was mandatory. 
I dont doubt that what  Miss B told us is what  she honestly remembers about the sale. But I 
also have to bear in mind  that its difficult to remember precisely what happened such a long 
time ago. Ive been given a copy of Miss Bs application form. Looking at that document, it 
wasnt pre-populated as Miss B recalls. I can see that she had to sign a particular section of 
the form to indicate  she wanted PPI. If she didnt want the cover, I think  it would have been 
reasonably clear that she could have left the box blank. 
It doesnt appear likely that FICL recommended this policy after taking  account  of Miss Bs 
personal circumstances. But it still had to give her enough information about the cover so 
she could decide  for herself whether it was a good  fit for her needs. That information had to 
be fair, clear  and not misleading. 
Looking at the application form,  I dont  think its clear that Miss B would have had to pay 
interest on her premiums or that she would  have to keep paying  for PPI if she made  a claim. 
Ref: DRN69148472So the question  for me now is whether Miss B would have  acted differently if shed been  
given more or better information about  the cover. To help me decide what  shes  likely to 
have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the cover. And Ive also thought about 
what Miss B told us about her personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if she d had to make  a claim on the PPI, 15% of Miss Bs card balance would 
have been repaid for every month  she was out of work because of an accident, sickness or 
redundancy for a maximum of 12 months. Miss B told us she would have full sick pay for 
eight months and three months half pay. It follows then that I think the cover  would have 
lasted for longer than her sick pay would have  lasted.  
I know that Miss B said that she had some  savings she could have  relied on if she ran into 
financial difficulty. But she told us thats  he did run into trouble paying  her card. So it looks as 
though if she did have the savings  she remembered that she wanted to keep  them intact. 
Miss B also told us that she could have relied on family members to help if she lost her job. I 
dont doubt that it would have been the intention of her family members to help in that 
situation. But circumstances  can change and theres no guarantee that assistance  would 
have been available to Miss B as and when she needed it. 
Miss B appears to have been  in good  health  when PPI was sold to her. So I dont think she 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to.
With all of this in mind, I dont think more or better information would have put Miss B off 
buying cover. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but after considering all of the evidence before 
me, I havent  upheld  her complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914847