K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mr G. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  Barclays Bank (trading as 
Egg) sold Mr G the policy at the same time that he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr G and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays Bank made Mr G aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it  although I can understand  if he can no longer remember this.
I think Barclays Bank probably made Mr G aware the PPI was optional  and that he 
chose to take it  although I can understand why he can no longer remember this. 
The ombudsman service  has information about  the application the Egg online 
application process at this time.  This suggests that PPI was presented as a choice, 
and Mr G would have  had to show whether or not he was accepting the offered PPI. 
Barclays Bank didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Gs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
I think the information Barclays Bank gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in his circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Barclays Bank doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But 
Barclays Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Barclays Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Barclays  Bank didnt 
tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  Bank  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN67917082my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6791708