K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him when he took out a credit card in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr C disagreed. So the matter has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr C told us that PPI was added to his credit card account during a meeting  with Halifax.  I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide  whats  likely to have 
happened, Ive thought about what Mr C remembers and what  Halifax  told us about  it. Ive 
also looked at the documentation thats available from that time. I think  whats written  on the 
paperwork probably reflected what was discussed  during the meeting. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr C would have known that the PPI was optional 
and he didnt have  to buy it if he didnt want it. Mr C said the policy  wasnt  discussed with 
him at the meeting and it was added to his account without his consent.  I accept  that what 
Mr C told us is what he honestly recalls  about  the sale of the policy. But I also know its 
difficult to remember precisely what happened 15 years ago, which  is when this policy was 
sold. 
I can see from the application form that there was a section  headed  product details. The 
box to select PPI has been crossed, whereas  the box to request another card protection 
service has been left blank. Ive also seen a copy of a welcome  letter that was sent out to 
Mr C shortly after the policy started.  And I think its likely that the PPI premiums would have 
appeared on his credit  card statements. So if he hadnt agreed to take the PPI out, I think  
hed have probably queried  this at the time.  
Although I appreciate Mr C now doesnt  remember, I think  that he probably chose to take 
this policy  out at the time. 
Mr C said Halifax  didnt advise him to buy PPI. But Ive proceeded on the basis that it did. 
Thats fair to Mr C because Halifax had to show that it was suitable for his needs.  To help 
me decide whether the policy was suitable,  Ive looked at what  Mr C told us about  his 
personal circumstances at the time.  And Ive also looked at the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. 
I can see that when  the PPI was added to Mr Cs account, he told us he would have  
received six months  full pay and six months  half pay from work if he became unwell. Given  
the length of time that hed worked with his employer,  I dont  think that he would have 
received a generous redundancy payment if hed lost his job. 
Ref: DRN63281252I can see that if he couldnt work, the PPI policy would have covered Mr C for up to 
12 months for each  claim if he lost his job or became unwell. So I think  the PPI would have 
covered him for longer and in addition  to his full pay from work. I know  that Mr C told us he 
would have been able to rely on friends  and family  to help him if he had run into financial  
trouble. I dont doubt it would have been  the intention of those close to Mr C to help. But I 
also know that circumstances  can change and theres no guarantee that help would have 
been available as and when he needed it. 
Mr C told us he was in good health  at the time he bought PPI and so I dont think  hed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  seen 
anything unusual about Mr Cs employment circumstances that would have  stopped him 
from making a successful claim if he needed to. 
After taking all of this into account, I think that the PPI was suitable for Mr Cs circumstances. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mr C enough clear  information about  the cover  so he could  
decide for himself  whether it was a good fit for his needs. Its possible that Halifax didnt tell 
Mr C everything  it should have done  about  the PPI. But I dont think more or better 
information about the cover would have put Mr C off buying it. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think he might have found  the policy useful if he lost his job. And although I know  he 
doesnt now remember, I think he probably  chose to buy this policy  at the time. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6328125