K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr C says HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr C that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he had to 
agree to take it. Mr C has said he thinks the policy was sold to him in a branch and he 
wouldnt have knowingly opted  to take out the PPI. HSBC  no longer has any record  of how 
the policy was sold due to the time that has passed. Where  there  isnt much evidence 
available I need to consider what I think is more  likely to have happened.
Neither party has been able to provide much paperwork from the time, which is 
understandable as this sale was over 23 years  ago. This means  I dont have any notes to 
show what discussions may have  taken place or copies of documentation  that Mr C may 
have seen or signed. I also need  to take into account that recollections  of a sale from that 
time ago may have  been affected.
In order  for me to agree with Mr C, Id have to think it was more likely HSBC purposefully 
misled him into thinking he had to have the PPI. Whilst  I agree this is possible,  I dont think  
its the most  likely scenario. Instead,  in the absence of any information persuading me 
otherwise, I think its more  likely HSBC made Mr C aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
Mr C doesnt know if he received any advice about the policy. HSBC  no longer has the 
records to show whether it recommended the policy or not. Our adjudicator assessed this 
case as a non-advised sale and neither party  responded to disagree with this, so I have also 
considered this to have  been a non-advised sale. This means  HSBC  didnt have  to check 
that the policy  was right for him but it did have to make sure that Mr C got the information he 
needed to decide for himself  if the policy was right for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
So, when taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr C has lost out as a result of 
anything that HSBC may have done  wrong.
Ref: DRN69803342my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6980334