K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
1996. Miss F says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in July 2019 I explained that I dont think  this complaint  
should be upheld.  I said:
FICL had to make Miss F aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Miss F applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has provided us with a copy of the available  paperwork. The application 
form Miss F completed  when she applied for her card had a separate section for PPI where  
the option to take the policy has been selected.  The application form has also been signed 
by Miss F in agreement with the selections that were  made on it. So with this in mind I think  
FICL made it clear  that Miss F didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss F got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss F has told us she suffered from a medical condition but has also told us that she 
never took any time off work for it. So I dont think this would have impacted her decision to 
take the PPI. Miss F has also said she was entitled to six months full sick pay followed by six 
months half sick pay, and had savings she could have relied on to make her repayments, 
she also had alternative insurance. But FICL has provided evidence of information it 
collected about Miss Fs circumstances when it asked her similar questions. It appears she 
told FICL she was entitled to three  months  full sick pay followed  by three months  half sick 
pay, and her savings  were set aside to be used  towards a deposit  on a property.
We asked Miss F for further evidence of her sick pay and savings, and while  she 
reconfirmed her entitlements she didnt provide any further evidence. So I am unable to say 
what she would have  been entitled  to at the time or what  level of savings  she had. 
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss F would have been entitled to 
and would have  protected her savings. And while Miss F may have had other insurance, the
PPI would have  paid out in circumstances her other policies wouldnt have. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Fs circumstances  at the time Im unable  to say she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
I gave Miss F and FICL  time to respond  to my provisional decision, but neither side responded. 
Ref: DRN67364772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. But as neither side responded with anything  further  for me to 
consider I see no reason  to come to a different decision to that explained above.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6736477