K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Pinnacle Insurance Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy, which covered only Mr F in case he was made  redundant from his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  because:
Having MPPI was a condition of the mortgage  Mr and Mrs F were applying for. They 
completed and signed  an application  form specifically  for the MPPI. So I think they had 
to have it to get their mortgage, which is what they were told at the time, and that they 
agreed to take it out. 
Pinnacle recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs F, and it seems to have  been  right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr F had only been in 
his job for about two years, so was unlikely to have much entitlement to redundancy pay. 
So it provided a useful benefit.  
The cost of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve understood how 
much they would need to pay for it. 
Its possible that Pinnacle didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mr 
and Mrs F dont  appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Fs comments,  including that they think they were paying 
for two policies which covered the same  things. But these points dont change  my 
conclusion. This MPPI policy covered only redundancy. The other policy they refer to did 
provide some MPPI  benefits, but only in relation to sickness  and accident.  So the two 
policies provided  cover in different circumstances, and werent  duplicating any cover.  It 
appears the redundancy cover was taken separately because that lowered the overall cost 
to Mr and Mrs F. 
Ref: DRN65108642my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6510864