K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Arval UK Limited  overcharged  him for damage to a hire purchase car on 
its return and that its customer service was poor.
background 
Mr H had acquired car in 2014 which was funded by a hire purchase agreement. This came  
to an end and the car was collected by an agent  acting on behalf of Arval.  Mr H says the 
agent was late and commented  that he didnt have the right phone  number. Mr H also says 
that the agent told him the car was in good  condition. He carried out an inspection and Mr H 
signed the report.
Arval then sent him notification of the damage and subsequently and invoice for £291 for 
damage to the car which it says went beyond fair wear and tear. This was for three 
scratches which went through to the primer and one which exceeded  50 mms.  
Mr H, who has provided this service with a very useful timeline of events, challenged this. He 
has explained that it was difficult to have  any meaningful engagement  with Arval and it was 
responsible for delays  and failing to return calls.  Arval has said that it held the wrong number 
for Mr H and this contributed the breakdown in communications. He also said that he had 
done fewer  miles than agreed  and some credit  should be given for this.
Mr Hs complaint was rejected by Arval and he brought the matter to this service. It was 
investigated by one of our adjudicators  who recommend it be upheld  in part. He reviewed 
the photographs of the damaged areas and concluded that these fell outside fair wear and 
tear as set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing (BVRLA) guidelines. 
He also considered the handling of the charges and the subsequent complaint. He set out 
the timeline and noted there  had been  delays and miscommunication. He noted that Arval 
had held the wrong phone number and it had tried to call Mr H several  times.  It had written to 
him and had addressed his complaint within a few weeks. He spoke with Arval  and 
suggested it forgo 50% of the cost of the damage to the nearside rear door which amounted  
to £67.50 and that it pay Mr H compensation of £50.
Arval agreed,  but Mr H didnt consider this to be a fair settlement. He said that Arval was 
responsible for holding  the wrong  phone number and it failed to use email to ask him for the 
correct one which in any event he had given to it earlier.  He said that the agent who 
collected the car had misrepresented the position  by not making it clear to him the 
significance of the damage. He also said that, as the car had a lower mileage than agreed, 
its value was greater  and he should be given  some credit for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H entered into an agreement which included the following: ARVAL reserves  the right to 
make such  charges pursuant to this Agreement as it shall reasonably think  fit. ARVAL  shall 
invoice the Hirer  for the cost of repairs (whether  or not earned out) to a Vehicle returned to 
ARVAL that is subject  to damage which, in accordance  with the BVRLA  Fair Wear and Tear 
Guide for the Contract Hire Industry would constitute  unfair wear and tear
Ref: DRN68156342The car was subject to an inspection and the damaged parts  photographed. The adjudicator 
has concluded that this damage  goes beyond fair wear and tear as set out in the BVRLA 
guide and I agree. Therefore, on that point I cannot  say Arval was wrong  to invoice Mr H.
I cannot say what  the agent, who is not employed  by Arval, but by a third party, said to Mr H, 
but I have noted  he believes he was given  to understand  the damage  was minimal. That 
does not prevent Arval making a legitimate claim for payment  for the damaged areas. Arval 
has provided a copy  of its guide  to returning a vehicle which sets out the process  for 
collection and a summary of allowable damage. That would have allowed Mr H to see if the 
scratches on his car fell into the fair wear and tear category.
As for the issue of him not driving  the car for the maximum  number of miles in the agreement 
there is nothing in that agreement to say that this will result  in a reduction  of any charges or 
that it would  entitle him to a refund. While I take his point  about the impact on the value of 
the car I cannot  require Arval to take this into account in the charge it has made.
As far as the handling of the return and his subsequent complaint I can see that there were 
delays. The car was collected  on 15 June  and Mr H made a complaint early July, but I 
believe Arval had taken  his earlier contact to have  been a complaint and issued final 
response letter on 2 July. There was further  correspondence before Mr H brought his 
complaint to this service.  
I believe Arval could  have  dealt with matters better,  particularly  in realising it had the wrong  
phone number and emailing Mr H to ask him for the right number. That would have sped up 
matters. I agree that he is entitled to some  compensation, but no more than has been 
already offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Arval  UK Limited  to lay Mr H 
compensation of £50 and reduce its charge  for damage by £67.50. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6815634