K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed  his account and placed a CIFAS 
marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud  alert service. 
background
Mr B has had a current account  and a savings account with NatWest for several  years. He 
rarely used his savings  account. 
In March 2019 two credits  of over £1,000 were paid into Mr Bs savings  account.  On the 
same day £1,180 was transferred online from his savings account to his current account. 
There were then three cash machine withdrawals and two retail purchases  made  on the 
current account; the value of those  transactions was just over £1,180, the amount that had 
been transferred  into the account on the same day. 
NatWest was later told by another bank that the payments into Mr Bs savings account had 
been fraudulent.  That is, the second  bank was satisfied  that its customer either  hadnt  made  
them or had been tricked  into making  them. It traced those payments to Mr Bs current  
account and closed it and his other accounts. NatWest  also placed a CIFAS marker against 
Mr Bs name  making  it difficult for him to obtain banking  facilities  elsewhere.   
Mr B said that he wasnt involved in and knew nothing about  the activity  on his accounts  
the payments  to his savings account;  the transfer to his current account;  or the withdrawals  
and retail payments.  Whilst  he was later able to open a new account with a different bank, 
he thought he should have more  options;  the CIFAS  marker  meant  that some banks wouldnt 
provide him with an account. 
NatWest wouldnt remove the marker, and so Mr B referred the matter  to this service,  where  
one of our investigators  considered it. The investigator concluded however that Mr B had 
authorised the account activity and that the CIFAS marker had therefore been recorded 
fairly. Mr B didnt accept  those findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Ill consider first of all the payments  to the savings  account. They would not have required 
any direct  involvement on the part of Mr B. That is, anyone who had his account details  
sort code  and account number  could have made them. I would comment  however that Mr 
Bs savings  account  wasnt used very much, so even those details would  not have been 
widely available. Nevertheless, I dont believe that the payments into Mr Bs savings account 
show that he knew about them. 
However, money was then transferred  online  from his savings account to his current 
account. That would have required rather more than the account numbers; it would have 
needed his online log-in details. Mr B says he didnt provide  these to anyone.  
Im satisfied that the funds were fraudulent  in the sense that theyd been transferred 
without consent  into Mr Bs savings account.  I think it unlikely that a fraudster would have 
made those  payments, or the transfer  to his current account, unless they were  confident  of 
Ref: DRN61962732being able to withdraw, transfer or spend  that money. The payments to the savings  account,  
the transfer to the current account  and the withdrawals and spending were almost certainly 
carried out by the same  person or by people working together, and were all linked. 
The withdrawals from the current  account and the retail spending were all made using Mr Bs 
bank card and PIN. Mr B hasnt reported his card missing or explained how someone else 
might have had both his card and PIN and been able to use them  together. 
For these reasons I think it more likely than not that Mr B made or authorised the 
transactions Ive described here.  At the very least,  I think he allowed someone else to use 
his account(s) but hasnt explained  that to the bank or to this service.  It may even be that he 
did that without  understanding  what the consequences might  be for him, and that he hasnt  
benefited from it. But whatever the full explanation, I dont believe it was unreasonable of 
NatWest to close Mr Bs accounts  or to place a CIFAS marker against  his name. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further 
steps to resolve  Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6196273