K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that American  Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) [American 
Express] hasnt  provided him with a satisfactory  explanation for how an additional credit card 
was taken out in his name. He says he knew nothing  about the card and American Express 
provided poor service  when he made  enquiries  about it.
 
background
Mr L took out an American  Express gold card in October  2016  which  he uses  regularly. In 
June 2018 he received  a statement for another American Express credit card he didnt 
recognise. He contacted  American Express and asked for an explanation as he believed the 
card had been taken  out fraudulently. He was told by American Express that it would get 
back to him the next day but it didnt.
When American Express did respond  it explained  that  as the application for the second 
card was made online in November 2017, using the same IP address as Mr L had used for 
his other  card  it didnt  think there  had been any fraudulent activity. It said the account had 
been set up as paperless but had now been changed to a paper based account which is 
why Mr L received a statement. It apologised for any inconvenience  caused in not 
responding to his complaint as quickly as promised and offered a total of 8,000  gold card 
membership points as compensation. Mr L didnt think American Express  had investigated  
his complaint sufficiently.  So he referred it to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. On 
balance he thought Mr L had opened the account. And he added  that Mr L hadnt suffered 
any financial  loss as he hadnt used the card.  He also thought the compensation  offered  by 
American Express for the delay in answering  the complaint  was fair and reasonable.
Mr L didnt agree. He said he still didnt think the matter had been properly investigated and 
he didnt accept the amount of compensation was fair. He thought that American  Express  
had made  an error which had exposed him to significant risk. Mr L also said that he hadnt 
ever received the actual credit card for the account.
As Mr L didnt accept what the adjudicator  said, his complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr L feels strongly that hes been  exposed to financial  risk here and I have some 
sympathy with him over the concern this must have caused him. But I dont think                  
American Express has done anything wrong over the account opening and I think  its offer of 
compensation for not responding as promised to Mr L is fair and reasonable. I know  this 
outcome will disappoint  Mr L so Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr L wants categoric proof  of how the account  was opened. And I can see 
why  as I accept he has no recollection of opening such  an account himself.  Unfortunately 
this isnt always possible  particularly if events happened several  months ago. So my role is 
to consider the evidence that is available and decide on balance  what I think  is most likely to 
Ref: DRN67433612have happened. I should also explain that our awards are made based on financial loss 
and/or material distress and inconvenience.   
Here Mr L says he didnt apply for a second card so it must  have been done fraudulently in 
his name.  But Ive seen evidence  to show that the IP address used to apply for the card was 
the same  one that Mr L used for previous  online spending on his main card.  And Mr L has 
confirmed he is the sole occupier of his property. 
American Express has shown Mr L always had an option to apply for a companion  card  to 
use alongside his main card. It said the application  process would have been shorter as it 
already held Mr Ls details from his first application. So, I think  on balance, its more  likely 
than not that Mr L mistakenly applied for a second  card. This would also explain why the 
card was never used  as Mr L wouldnt have realised there was an additional card,  and he 
also wouldnt  have been aware that he hadnt received the card and pin number  as he 
says he didnt.  
Mr L said the application was fraudulent and that would  have  exposed  him to some  risk. But 
I note the application was made under his name and address, which  meant that any 
associated paperwork would be sent to him at his address. And when he received a 
statement for the card there, over six months later, he could see there hadnt been  any 
transactions undertaken. I think its unlikely that anyone taking out a card fraudulently in 
someone elses name would have applied in this way. And as there havent been any 
transactions on the account  and I note the card has now been cancelled   Mr L hasnt 
suffered any financial  loss. So even if I thought American Express  had mistakenly opened 
the account  which  for the reasons given above, I dont, Mr L hasnt suffered a financial loss 
that I would expect American Express to put right. So I dont think  American Express has to 
do anything in respect of the account  opening.
Theres no dispute that American  Express  didnt contact Mr L when it said it would. And he 
then had to wait a bit longer while the correct department looked into what had happened. I 
think this would have  had some impact  on Mr L as I think  he would have spent longer 
worrying about possible fraudulent activity on his account. But I think American Express has 
recognised the delay- and that Mr L had a right to expect a better service than he received. I 
note American Express offered to add 8,000  membership  points  on his credit  card account. 
Overall, while  its difficult  to quantify exactly the value of 8,000  points  they can be used for 
a variety of purposes, I think the offer is fair. It appears to be around the value of a cash 
award I might have expected the business  to make  had it chosen to do that instead. 
my final decision
American Express has already made an offer to apply 8,000 membership points to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that  if it hasnt already applied them   American Express  Services  
Europe Limited (AESEL) should apply the membership points to Mr Ls account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67433613
Ref: DRN6743361