K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited,  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following his claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
background
In August  2014,  Smart  Save Solutions, a company that supplied  and installed  solar panel 
systems cold called  Mr M. Following a meeting at his home with a salesperson,  Mr M agreed 
to enter  into a contract with Smart Save  Solutions for it to supply and install a solar  panel 
system costing about £7,500. To fund this he also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum 
loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). The solar  panels were installed soon 
after.
In September  2017, Mr M made a claim under section  75 (s75) of the CCA to BPF via his 
representative. The representative said that Smart Save Solutions had told Mr M that the 
solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more  
than offset by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income.  But that hadnt happened.  Instead, Mr Ms 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher that the FIT income.
BPF wrote back to Mr Ms representative  in December 2017. It explained that it was still 
looking into his complaint.
In March 2018 Mr Ms representative contacted  our service  as it hadnt received a Final 
Response Letter from BPF.  Following  our involvement BPF made an offer of compensation 
of around £3,380. It had worked out what it considered to be an estimate of the potential 
savings and income to Mr M from the panels  over the 10 year term of the loan. It then 
reworked the loan so that he would pay no more than that over the 10 year term.
Mr M had already paid off the loan with BPF.  This meant that the £3,380 would be paid 
directly to him with 8% simple interest.
Mr M didnt  accept the offer. His representative  raised several points as to why the offer 
wasnt acceptable. In summary, it said:
BPF should pay for the removal of the solar panels and the cost of making good any 
damage to the roof caused by the installation and removal  of the panels.
The proposed  offer from BPF didnt use the actual figures from Mr Ms electricity bills 
or take into account any ongoing maintenance costs of the panel  system including  
the cost of replacing the inverter.
That a different finance provider was offering full rescission and that Mr M was being 
prejudiced as a result  of Smart Save  Solutions arranging  finance with one finance 
company rather than another.
BPF should return all monies paid by Mr M minus the value  of any benefits  he has 
received.
It should also pay Mr M £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN66799892I issued a provisional decision setting out why I thought that the offer put forward by BPF 
represented fair compensation in this particular case. I attach a redacted  version of my 
provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I thought that Mr Ms complaint wasnt so much  about the solar panels  themselves but that 
they were misrepresented  to be self-funding. So by removing the effect  of that 
misrepresentation, BPF would put right the financial impact to Mr M over the term of the 
loan. In full and final settlement of the complaint  I was minded to require BPF to:
(a)allow Mr M to keep  the panels;
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr M from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework the loan up to the point he settled it. Essentially this 
meant updating the calculation BPF had provided us;
(c)add 8% simple interest  to any overpayments made from the date the overpayment 
was made to settlement.
BPF accepted my provisional decision. Mr M, via his representative didnt. In summary,  it 
said:
BPF hadnt used  Mr Ms actual  electricity bills and FIT meter readings in its 
calculations.
The figures used  by BPF are assumptions and the 50% self-consumption  rate that 
BPF was using in its calculation wasnt  fair.
The calculation didnt take into account  any ongoing maintenance costs for the solar 
panel system.
BPF should pay Mr M £500  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Following my provisional decision BPF notified  our service that it had made  some  changes 
to its methodology  when  calculating offers on these types of cases.  This was following a 
review of a number of expert opinions that had been  provided  after I had issued my 
provisional decision. Rather than use a self-consumption rate of 50% it was proposing  to 
reduce this to 37%. This change would be beneficial to Mr M as it would decrease the 
assumed level of benefit from the solar panels,  impacting on the proposed  level of 
compensation.
It was also willing to offer Mr M £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
I wrote  to both parties. I explained that, having reviewed the expert  opinions,  I wasnt  
satisfied that a self-consumption rate of 50% would result in fair redress.  I felt that a 37% 
self-consumption rate, based on the Energy  Savings  Trusts data would be more reasonable. 
I thought this as it would take into account changing  consumer occupancy  habits over the 
lifetime of the solar  panel system and once the loan had been repaid, as it has in this case, 
Mr M would continue to likely  benefit  from the system via lower electricity bills or FIT 
payments.
The Renewable  Energy  Consumer Code, which administers the renewable energy 
consumer Code and ensures its members  comply with the code,  had determined  that Smart  
Ref: DRN66799893Save Solutions had breached a number  of sections of the Code in April and May 2015. And 
because of that I was satisfied  that BPF should have taken this information, available  in the 
public domain, into account when  reviewing Mr Ms complaint. And that I was of the opinion 
that this supported Mr Ms claim against  BPF and it should have upheld his complaint when 
he originally complained. Because of this I was minded to agree that the £100 proposed  for 
trouble and upset  was fair.
BPF accepted what I had said and had no further  comments.
Mr Ms representative provided a joint statement from two solar panel experts. Within this 
statement they said they felt that a typical solar panel system would require the inverter  to be 
replaced twice over the lifetime of the solar panel  system. Because of this they concluded 
that a maintenance cost of £2,100 should  be included  in any offer from a business.  The 
experts also suggested they create  an up to date tool that could be used to calculate redress 
in these types of cases.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the offer proposed by BPF represents  fair 
compensation for the reasons given in my provisional decision and in my letter summarised 
above. 
Mr Ms representative doesnt believe that BPF has used his actual bills when calculating  the 
solar panel  performance. As I explained in my provisional decision,  the electricity  bills 
supplied do not run from the exact  date the solar panels were installed. And because of this 
BPF has followed  the approach set out by the UK Microgeneration Certification  Scheme  
(MCS). 
The MCS states that if the FIT statements available cover more  than a full calendar  year 
then it is acceptable  to pro-rata  the last FIT statement to calculate a full calendar year.
The FIT statements that have been  provided  cover two periods, 24 October 2014 to 19 June 
2015 and 19 June 2015 to 1 March 2016. By following  the above approach, as set out by the 
MCS, this gives an annual  system generation of 2,052.50 kWh. And BPFs calculation has 
the first years annual  system generation to be 2,053  kWh, so Im satisfied that its first year 
calculation is based on Mr Ms actual solar panel system performance.
However, I do accept that Mr M has had his solar panels for nearly five years now.  So I think  
it would  be reasonable for BPF to use his actual bills when working out the performance of 
the solar panel  system. 
Having said that, I see from the last available meter reading thats been provided, taken in 
April 2017 that Mr Ms solar panels had generated 5,174 kWh over approximately  two and a 
half years.  This works out to an average  of 2,069 kWh a year. As explained above, BPFs 
calculation has assumed a starting electricity generation of 2,053 kWh reduced by 0.5%  
each year.
So in essence BPFs calculation  has assumed a lower electricity generation than the actual. 
This slightly favours Mr M because  an assumption of lower  generation figure  means that the 
Ref: DRN66799894FIT and the assumed savings would be lower,  which in turn means  the compensation figure 
would be higher. But I dont think that it is necessary for BPF to revise the figures in this 
instance given  that the difference is not significant and it benefits Mr M.
Mr Ms representative has also referred to BPF not using his actual electricity  bills to work 
out his savings from the solar panels.  But I wouldnt have expected  it to. This is because the 
savings would be calculated on the performance of the solar  panel system. The savings that 
Mr M would receive would be based  on his household self-consuming  some  of the 
electricity produced through his solar  panels  as opposed  to buying the electricity from his 
provider. And because of this it isnt easy to evidence any savings Mr M has made  directly  
from his energy bills.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  determining fair compensation, in cases  like this 
one, isnt an exact science. My aim is to arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable 
overall. There are various factors that determine the actual level of savings a consumer  
could make so determining a precise figure  over a 10 year period is very difficult.  
As Ive noted above BPF now uses a self-consumption of 37% in its calculations. For the 
reasons Ive already given I think this is fair taking into account changing consumer 
occupancy habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel  system.  
And BPF has based its calculations on a number of assumptions, predominantly  the 
degradation rate of the solar panel  system, electricity price inflation and the estimated retail  
price index (RPI). I remain of the opinion that the assumptions BPF has used dont seem  
unreasonable, especially when compared  to the actual known figures.  The actual average 
RPI of the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure.
The two solar panel experts have said it would be reasonable to expect to replace  2 No. 
inverters over the typical time period that most  systems  will be in receipt of the feed in tariff 
of 20 to 25 years. And because of this they have suggested that there should be an 
additional payment of £2,100 to cover the potential  costs of this work.
Ive also noted  that one of the solar  panel  experts quoted above provided a report on the 
methodology being used  in these types of cases in September 2018. In this report  they said 
at the end of the loan term the customer should  have an asset  which is generating an index 
linked income and savings which should offset any maintenance obligation such as the cost 
of replacing key components such as the inverter.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that Mr M may have some maintenance costs  
over the lifetime of the solar panel system.  I noted  that the Energy Savings Trust sets out 
solar panels  dont require a lot of maintenance. However, the inverter  is likely  to need 
replacing sometime during the lifetime of the panels. And an inverter currently costs around 
£800. But he would likely have some  benefit from savings and the FIT income moving 
forward.
Its impossible  for anyone to know what the extent of those costs and benefits would actually 
be. But, based on the available information,  including the reports  provided by the two solar 
panel experts, I remain of the opinion that the potential benefit should be adequate to offset 
any reasonable ongoing maintenance  costs.
Ive considered the comments and offer by the two independent experts to create a new tool 
to calculate redress  in cases similar to Mr M. My role as an ombudsman is to decide  what I 
Ref: DRN66799895consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint. I remain of the 
view that Mr Ms complaint isnt so much about  the solar panels, but that he was led to 
believe that they would be self-funding and come at no additional  financial cost to him.  
My aim is to put Mr M as close to the position he wouldve  been  in but for the 
misrepresentation. Both parties agree that it would cost BPF to remove  the solar  panels. I 
dont think it should  be required to do that if it puts Mr M in a position where the panels  are 
self-funding. 
I consider that a fair and reasonable approach  is for BPF to recalculate the original loan 
based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the panels  over the 10 
year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps  the solar  panel system.
By recalculating the loan this way Mr Ms monthly  repayment will reduce, meaning  that he 
would have been paid more each  month  than he shouldve done resulting in an overpayment 
balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment I would 
expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement. So normally,  in a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let a 
consumer have the following selection of options  as to how they would like their 
overpayments to be used:
(a)the over payments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly  payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly  payment until the end of the loan term,
(c)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and they continue  to make their 
current monthly payment  resulting  in their loan finishing early, or
(d)the overpayments are returned  to the consumer  and they pay a new monthly  
payment until the end of the loan term.
However, in Mr Ms case he has already repaid the loan. This means the overpayments 
should be paid back to him as BPF has proposed. 
Mr Ms representative has explained  that this whole matter has caused  Mr M trouble and 
upset, mainly due to the financial  shortfall faced each month.  I havent  seen anything to 
show that Mr M experienced  a monthly  financial  shortfall  and as I understand it he was able 
to make his contractual monthly loan repayments  on time. And because of this, it doesnt 
appear that the loan has caused  him financial hardship. 
As Ive set out above, I do think BPF shouldve paid regard to information available  in the 
public domain, mainly  the action taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code.  And I 
remain of the view that if it had, Mr Ms complaint may have been potentially  resolved 
sooner. I think that £100 for trouble  and upset accurately reflects this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Service Limited  should:
(a)allow Mr M to keep  the solar panels;
Ref: DRN66799896(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr M from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework the loan up to the point he settled it. Essentially this 
means updating the calculation it has provided  us;
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement;
(d)pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Michael Fisher
Ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Service Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take of income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim  the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN66799897Copy of the provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance), following  his claim  against it under  section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act (CCA)  
1974.
background
In August 2014, Smart Save Solutions,  a company that supplied and installed  solar panel systems 
cold called Mr M. Following  a meeting  at his home with a salesperson, Mr M agreed to enter into a 
contract with Smart Save Solutions for it to supply and install a solar  panel  system costing about 
£7,500. To fund this he also agreed  to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF).  The solar  panels were installed soon after.
In September 2017, Mr M made a claim  under  section  75 (s75)  of the CCA to BPF via his 
representative. The representative said that Smart Save Solutions had told Mr M that the solar panels  
would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments  would be more than offset by the feed-
in-tariff (FIT)  income.  But that hadnt happened. Instead, Mr Ms monthly loan repayments  had been  
much higher than the FIT income. 
BPF wrote back to Mr Ms representative in December  2017. It explained that it was still looking into 
his complaint.
In March 2018  Mr Ms representative contacted our service as it hadnt received a Final Response  
Letter from BPF. Following our involvement BPF made an offer of compensation  of around £3,380.  It 
had worked  out what it considered to be an estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr M from 
the panels  over the 10 year term of the loan. It then reworked  the loan so that he would pay no more  
than that over the 10 year term.
Mr M had already paid off the loan with BPF.  This meant the £3,380 would  be paid directly  to him with 
8% simple interest.
Mr M didnt accept the offer. His representative raised several points as to why the offer wasnt 
acceptable. In summary, it said:
BPF should pay for the removal  of the solar  panels and the cost of making  good any damage 
to the roof caused by the installation and removal  of the panels.
The proposed offer from BPF didnt use the actual figures  from Mr Ms electricity  bills or take 
into account any ongoing  maintenance costs  of the panel  system  including the cost of 
replacing the inverter.
That a different finance provider  is offering full rescission and that Mr M is being  prejudiced as 
a result of Smart  Save Solutions  arranging finance with one finance company rather than 
another.  
BPF should return all monies paid by Mr M minus  the value  of any benefits he has received.
It should also pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN66799898When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account:  relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would  consider to have  been  good industry  practice at the relevant  time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 (s56)  and s75 of the CCA, which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.  S75 states:
If the debtor  under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in the respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor..
As Mr M paid for the solar  panels with a fixed sum loan, BPF agrees that s75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr M could claim  against BPF  the creditor  for any misrepresentation  
or breach  of contract by Smart Save Solutions in the same  way he could have claimed  against Smart 
Save Solutions, the supplier.  So Ive taken s75 into account when deciding  what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case. 
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and Smart  Save 
Solutions as the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by Smart Save Solutions as an agent  
of BPF.
what happened?
Mr M says he was cold called and during a sales meeting told that the installation would  be entirely 
self-financing. I havent  seen anything to suggest that hed shown a previous interest in solar  panels  
before he was approached by Smart Save Solutions. It is difficult to see why Mr M would agree to the 
installation of the solar  panels financed through a loan that would  increase his monthly  outgoings. I 
therefore think  its unlikely that Mr M wouldve agreed to install the solar  panel  system and take a loan 
with BPF unless he was led to believe  that it would be self-funding and come at no additional financial  
cost to him.
Ive also considered the action taken by Renewable  Energy  Consumer Code  (RECC) against Smart 
Save Solutions. My understanding is that RECC administers the renewable energy consumer Code 
and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated Smart Save Solutions conduct.  In April and May 2015 it determined that 
Smart Save  Solutions was in breach  of a number of sections  of the code including Sections 5.2 and 
5.4. These two sections relate to essentially  requiring members not to provide false or misleading 
information to consumers and providing  clear and accurate  information about the cost and benefits of 
the product sold.
I understand that what happened in respect of the cases RECC looked into may not necessarily have 
happened in Mr Ms case. Whilst the RECC  Panels  findings  are general and do not refer to Mr Ms 
case, the findings  do suggest  that there were conduct concerns in the areas that related to Mr Ms 
complaint and at around the time he was sold the solar  panel system  and loan.
Taking all of the above into account, I believe that it is more likely than not that the salesperson  for 
Smart Save  Solutions led Mr M to believe that the solar panels would  be self-funding and the savings 
would be sufficient  to cover the repayments required under the loan agreement.
was the solar panel system self-funding at no extra cost to Mr M?
Ive noted that neither  Mr M and his representative nor BPF seem to think  that the solar panel  system 
would be self-funding over the term of the loan.
Ref: DRN66799899Im of the opinion that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Mr M, 
the savings and income he would receive should have been sufficient  to cover the repayments due 
under the loan agreement.
To clarify, Mr Ms expected savings and incomes from the solar panels are from:
(1)generation income tariff,
(2)export tariff income, and;
(3)savings to Mr M by using  the electricity generated by the panels  instead of buying  it from his 
energy provider.
Based on the calculation provided by BPF the total expected return  from the above three items, in the 
first year, would have come  to £465  whereas the loan repayments were about £1,170 a year.
Taking this into account, Mr M was likely to be out of pocket by about  £705 in the first year.  And that 
would have broadly been the same during the term of the loan. This means that even  based on this 
estimate, the solar panels  werent self-funding. So Im satisfied that Smart  Save Solutions 
misrepresented the benefits  to Mr M.
did Mr M suffer a loss?
Mr M didnt have any prior experience of the solar panel systems and he was cold called  by Smart 
Save Solutions. Im satisfied that Mr M decided  to go ahead with the purchase of the solar  panel  
system based on the representation made by Smart Save Solutions that the system  would be self-
funding.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I find that Mr M has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by Smart Save Solutions. The system wasnt self-funding and Mr M ended 
up paying a significant amount over the savings.  And as BPF has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by Smart Save Solutions, I find that it is responsible  for Mr Ms loss.
fair compensation
Mr Ms representative has said that it wants all the payments made by Mr M returned to him. It has 
cited some  court judgements in regards  to this.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses  providing 
financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases  like this one, determining  fair 
compensation isnt an exact science. I appreciate  that a court might decide  that Mr M was entitled to 
rescind the purchase and credit agreement or it may decide that there is no case to answer or that 
another remedy may be appropriate. My role here is to arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome taking 
account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Ms complaint is that it isnt so much  about the solar  panels themselves but that he was 
led to believe that they would be self-funding.  And based on this I dont think it would  be fair or 
reasonable to require the removal  of the solar panels  from his home. And it is also accepted that it 
would cost BPF a significant sum to remove them.  So I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable to 
ask it to do that. Rather, I think the fair outcome here is to put Mr M in a position where the panels are 
self-funding over the original  term of the loan. By allowing Mr M to keep the panels, he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills or FIT payments going forward.
BPF says that its offer is to effectively make  the solar panels self-funding  in the sense that the loan 
repayments over the term of the loan would broadly match Mr Ms potential savings and the FIT 
income from the solar  panels.
Ref: DRN667998910Mr Ms representative says that Mr M was told that the loan repayments would be covered  by the FIT. 
So Ive considered  whether  any savings  should be taken into account when arriving at fair 
compensation.
Although Im satisfied  that Mr M was misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-funding,  
its difficult for me to exactly how this was explained to Mr M. The RECCs findings  I referred to earlier 
do suggest that on occasions Smart Save Solutions may have misled consumers about the costs and 
benefits of the systems sold.
If I accept what Mr Ms representative says, I think that when a consumer decides  to go ahead  and 
install a solar  panel system,  its reasonable  to assume that their key objective  is to firstly generate 
electricity for their own use. So I dont  consider  it reasonable to ignore this important  benefit when 
arriving at fair compensation.
Ive noted that Mr Ms representative has said that his position has been prejudiced as Smart Save 
Solutions arranged finance  through BPF rather  than another finance provider. And the other finance 
provider is offering  full rescission.  
As Ive explained above my role is to help settle individual disputes taking into account  the individuals 
circumstances. I acknowledge that another finance provider has made a different  settlement to the 
one put forward by BPF. However,  my role is to decide if the offer in this case represents fair 
compensation. The fact that another  business has suggested an alternative way to settle their 
complaints does not alter my view about what amounts to fair compensation in this case.
other assumptions
BPFs calculation is based on the actual  performance and estimated future  performance of Mr Ms 
solar panel  system. This shows that the first years annual system  generation  to be 2,053  kWh and 
then it has allowed  for an annual degradation of 0.5%.
Mr Ms representative disagrees that BPF has used  actual electricity  usage and FIT figures  when 
calculating the actual and future performance. 
Understandably, the electricity bills provided  by Mr Ms representatives do not run from the exact date 
the solar panel system was installed. However,  they do cover from just over one month after the date 
of installation/drawdown date of the loan which  was 3 September 2014.  
And I can see that BPF has followed the approach  taken  by the UK Microgeneration Certification  
Scheme (MCS) when working  out its calculations.
The MCS  requires  all certified suppliers to provide an estimate of the solar panel  system performance 
based on the standard  MCS procedure in Microgeneration Installation Standard MIS3002, Issue 3.31.
The MCS  requirement is to provide a generation estimate for a proposed panel  system (rather than a 
financial estimate  based  on FIT rates)  which covers the first years  generation  only. 
The MCS  generation  estimates are an estimate of the first years generation figures. So, to make a 
meaningful comparison between the estimated performance and the actual performance, ideally  
figures for the corresponding time period  should be used.
The MCS  goes on to say that if the FIT statements available cover  a period of more than 365 days 
then it is acceptable to pro-rata the last FIT statement to calculate  a full calendar year.
The FIT statements provided by Mr Ms representatives cover from 24 October 2014 to 19 June 2015,  
238 days. This shows the generation from this period was 1,354  kWh.  The next FIT statement 
provided covers the period from the 19 June 2015 to the 1 March 2016,  256 days, with a generation  
Ref: DRN667998911of 1,408 kWh.  By dividing  1,408 kWh by 256 days this gives a daily rate of 5.5 kWh. 5.5 x 127 days  
(being the shortfall  to make the first FIT period up to 365 days) = 698.50.
This then gives an annual generation  of 2,052.50 kWh (1,354 + 698.50). BPFs calculation had the 
first years  annual  system generation at 2,053  kWh so Im satisfied that its starting point is based on 
Mr Ms actual  solar panel system performance.
Ive noted from BPFs calculation  it has worked  out the electricity tariff based  on Mr Ms electricity 
statement for the period March 2014 to March 2015  which showed  the unit rate of 11.80p and I think  
this is reasonable.
Mr Ms representative doesnt think that the assumption that 50% of the energy generated would be 
used by Mr M is reasonable. It has said that the Energy Savings Trust recommends a self-
consumption figure  of 25%.
Ive looked at the Energy Savings Trust website  and it currently gives a table of potential savings 
under various scenarios depending on the location  and the consumers  lifestyle rather than a specific 
percentage. 
Its clear that there  are various factors that determine  the actual level of savings a consumer  could 
make. Even  with respect to the same consumer, that figure could  change  from time to time.  So in my 
view determining an exact figure over a period of 10 years is difficult. And, as previously said,  in 
determining fair compensation  in cases of this nature  isnt an exact science and my aim is to arrive at 
an outcome thats fair and reasonable overall.
BPFs savings  assumption  is based on how the export FIT income  is calculated and paid, as set out 
by the government.  The export FIT income  is calculated  on the assumption that 50% of the energy 
produced will be exported to the national  grid. So there is an implied assumption that the remaining 
50% is used  by the consumer. Given  what  Ive explained above, I find that in order to arrive  at a fair 
compensation figure, estimating potential savings by assuming 50% usage isnt unreasonable.
Ive also considered the other assumptions BPF has used such as the electricity price  inflation, the 
degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that they dont seem 
unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example  the actual average RPI for 
the last 4 years doesnt seem to be far from the assumed figure.
maintenance costs
Ive looked at the information available  from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar panels dont 
need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need replacing sometime  during the lifetime 
of the panels at a current cost of about £800. So I acknowledge that Mr M could  have some 
maintenance costs over the lifetime of the solar panels. But on the other hand, I also acknowledge  
that Mr M would likely have some benefit by way of savings and the FIT income  going forward. 
Its impossible to know what the extent of those costs and the benefits  would actually be. However, 
based on available  information I think that that potential benefit should be adequate to offset any 
reasonable maintenance  costs. And because of this Im not currently persuaded  to make  an award in 
this regard.
other issues
Mr Ms representative has told us that this whole matter has caused Mr M trouble and upset caused 
by the financial shortfall he experienced each month. I havent been seen anything to show that Mr M 
experienced a monthly financial shortfall and as I understand it he was able to make the required 
monthly loan repayments. And based  on this, it doesnt appear that the loan has caused him financial  
hardship.
Ref: DRN667998912Whilst I understand that this matter wouldve caused Mr M some trouble  and upset  Im satisfied,  
taking into account the specific circumstances of this case, that the overall offer currently made by 
BPF is fair.
summary
In summary, for the reasons explained and subject to any further submissions, I consider that, overall, 
the offer proposed by BPF represents fair compensation in this case.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 22 February  2019, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, I am minded  to require  Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  to:
(a)allow  Mr M to keep the solar panels;
(b)estimate the potential savings and income to Mr M from the panels over the 10 year term of 
the loan and rework the loan up to the point he settled it. Essentially this means  updating the 
calculation BPF has provided us;
(c)add 8% simple interest*  to any overpayments made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement.
*If Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr 
M a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6679989