K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Uniform Mortgages  Ltd mis-sold him an income protection policy. Mr I 
says the policy wasnt suitable for him and he wants his premiums refunded.
background
Mr I took out income protection insurance  in 2017. The policy  was sold by Uniform  and was 
designed to provide a monthly  benefit  in the event of Mr I being unable to work due to injury 
or illness. But, just over a year later, Mr I sought financial advice and was told that the policy 
Uniform had sold him would never  have paid out because he was actually entitled to income  
protection through his employer. So Mr I complained about how itd been sold.
Mr I said that Uniform knew he was in full time employment at the time of the sale. And that it 
ought to have done more  to establish if he was already covered through  an employee sick 
pay scheme. But Uniform didnt agree and said Mr I had told its advisor that he wasnt  
entitled to any sick pay from his employer. Uniform provided Mr I with a copy  of a fact find 
document which it said reflected that. But Mr I remained  unhappy with Uniforms response 
and approached this service.  
Mr I said that hed never seen the fact find prior to his complaint being made to Uniform and 
he had concerns about the documents  authenticity.  Mr I also said that Uniform had never  
asked him about  employee sick pay. So one of our investigators looked into what  had 
happened.
Our investigator thought it likely that Uniform had asked Mr I about  employee sick pay. And 
she was satisfied that the information contained  within the fact find appeared to reflect  his 
circumstances (in that Mr I hadnt  actually known his employer provided sick pay until a year 
after the sale). Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr I would have acted differently if 
hed seen a copy  of the fact find either,  because  again he hadnt known his employer 
provided sick pay at the time. And consequently she didnt recommend that his complaint  be 
upheld. 
Mr I accepted that he hadnt known his employer provided sick pay at the time of the sale.  
But he said Uniform had never  asked  about  employee sick pay and he would have  sought  to 
clarify that information  had it done.  So as no agreement was reached the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mr I has very firm opinions  
about the sale of his policy. But while hes provided  detailed submissions in relation to that, 
my findings  will only focus on the matters  I consider  central to this complaint. That means I 
wont address every  single point  or argument that Mr I has raised, and I trust that he wont  
take that as a matter of discourtesy.
Uniform sold Mr Is policy through  a combination of emails and phone calls.  The sale was 
advised, and that meant  Uniform needed  to make  sure the policy it recommended was 
suitable for Mr Is circumstances and needs at the time. I have been  provided with the email 
conversations between Uniform and Mr I, the policy illustrations that Uniform provided him 
Ref: DRN65682242with, and the fact find document  that it says was completed at the time. But, because 
Uniform doesnt record calls, I cant listen to what was said during the sale.  
In relation to employee sick pay, the fact find asks three questions. The first is, In the event 
of you being unable to work due to accident  or illness,  would you and your dependants be 
able to maintain  your standard of living?  To which Mr Is response is recorded as No.
The second  is, In the event of you being unable to work due to unemployment, would you 
and your dependants be able to maintain your standard of living?  To which  Mr Is response 
is again recorded as No.
And the third is, What would be the impact on you?  To which  Mr Is response is recorded 
as, the client would  receive no sick pay from employer. However, feels that savings could 
be used to maintain  essential expenditure for 13 weeks. Client would like to keep costs lower  
so stated a preference for low cost IPB option  which would provide a monthly benefit for max 
2 years.  Client would  like to protect  his income  in the event of unemployment. £3000 
monthly benefit required for both to cover.
Mr I disputes being  asked about  any employee sick pay entitlement though. So when 
evidence is inconclusive, like it is here, I have to make a finding on the balance  of 
probabilities. That is what I find is likely  to have happened based on everything made 
available to me and in view of the wider circumstances.
Uniform has said it always questions what cover a client already has in place as part of its 
sales process and that, amongst other things, in doing so it asks questions about  employee 
sick pay. I accept that Mr I has shown this service that he was entitled to employee  sick pay 
at the time (a discretionary benefit of six months pay, followed by 70% of his salary  until 
either retirement or death). But Mr I told this service that he wasnt aware of that at the time 
of the sale. So I must  keep in mind that hes only able to state that now with the benefit of 
hindsight. 
The fact find appears  to have been produced  electronically and it isnt signed  or dated. But, 
aside from that and the employee sick pay element, Im not aware  of Mr I having  challenged 
any of the other information  about  him and/or his circumstances contained within  that 
document. I know that Mr I has concerns that Uniform could have produced  the fact find 
retrospectively in light of his complaint. But I accepted all the information provided  to this 
service in good faith and, after careful consideration, I consider fabrication of that document  
unlikely. Uniform has accepted it should  have sent a copy  to Mr I but, as our investigator  set 
out, on balance  the fact find does  appear  to be a reasonable reflection of Mr Is 
circumstances at the time  in that he hadnt  actually known his employer provided  sick pay. 
I think its important to note that after approaching Uniform himself,  having had 
conversations with Uniform about  his protection  requirements and, having  being sent 
illustrations about  the potential  policies  available, Mr I didnt, as far as Im aware, take steps 
to check his understanding of his employers sick pay offerings. So even  if hed been  
furnished with a copy of the fact find document at the time, Im not persuaded that he would 
have done anything differently. I say this because of the above, and because Mr I has 
confirmed he had no knowledge of his employers sick pay when the policy was sold to him. 
I appreciate that Mr I thinks Uniform should have done more to confirm whether he was 
entitled to any other  sick pay. But sick pay benefits vary across employers, and some  
employers might not provide such a benefit for their employees. Uniform was working on the 
Ref: DRN65682243information that on balance Im persuaded Mr I provided to it. So I dont see why it would 
have had reason  to doubt that. Of course, Mr I and Uniform are now aware that Mr Is 
employer did provide sick pay. But neither party seemed to be aware of that at the time of 
the sale so I dont think itd be fair of me to hold Uniform liable for that. 
I accept that Mr Is very unhappy about  whats happened.  But for the reasons given above 
Im not persuaded Uniform mis-sold  this policy. I wont be directing it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6568224