K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Ms P and Halifax  a provisional  decision  saying I didnt intend to uphold  the complaint. I 
said Id consider anything else Ms P or Halifax wanted to give me by 5 May 2019. Halifax  did 
not send anything new. Ms P replied with further  points, which Ive considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Ms P didnt  have to take the PPI and she chose to take it  
and there  isnt enough to make me think Halifax misled or pressured her into this. But I 
acknowledge that Ms P strongly disagrees  with these conclusions.
Ms P agreed to the PPI by ticking a box for it on the postal application form she completed to 
take out her credit  card. The form says the PPI was an extra  Ms P could take if she liked  it 
didnt say it was compulsory. Ms P says Halifax had told her she had to take the PPI to get 
the card. Its possible she was misled in this way. But bearing in mind that her application 
was well over twenty five years ago, Ms Ps recollections arent enough on their own to make 
me think Halifax did mislead her like this. And I havent seen anything  else that makes me 
think Halifax misled Miss P by telling her she had to tick for the PPI.
I agree  with Ms P that the policy terms werent made  clear on the form  it says very little 
about the PPI. But this doesnt mean Halifax  most  likely told Ms P she had to tick for the PPI 
or misled her into ticking  for it. As mentioned  above, the form itself suggests PPI is optional, 
and I agree with Ms P that its unlikely she wouldve opted for it without any understanding  of 
its costs or apparent  benefits. So I think Ms P likely received some information about  the PPI 
with the form  although I cant say what this said exactly.
Halifax didnt give Ms P advice on whether the PPI was suitable for her circumstances. So 
Halifax didnt have  to check the PPI was right for Ms P  but it did have to make sure she got 
the information she needed  to decide whether the PPI was right for her. Im not sure it did 
that like it shouldve. But Ms P didnt  have any health problems at the time,  so I dont think  
better information about the exclusions for existing health conditions  wouldve put her off the 
cover. Also,  from what Ive seen, its likely Ms P would lose income if she suffered disability 
or unemployment for a prolonged period. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of, and likely for 
longer than, Ms Ps work pay for sickness or redundancy.  Bearing all this in mind, overall Im 
not persuaded that better information wouldve changed Ms Ps decision about  the PPI.
Ms P believes the PPI was and mustve  been mis-sold - and I acknowledge that she has 
argued this case strongly. Ive thought  carefully  about all her points - for example about what  
Ref: DRN68567392shes said about not needing PPI as her parents were financially comfortable  and wouldve  
helped her at any time, and about their circumstances  not changing. But other peoples 
circumstances and ability to help can change  and taking  the PPI made  it less likely Ms P 
would need her parents help with her card payments in the future. Likewise, I dont doubt  
what Ms P says when  she says there  was every chance she wouldve got another job if 
shed lost her job. But the PPI was cover in case it took her longer to do so. It was also cover 
for sickness while she was employed.  Overall  while I appreciate Ms Ps view differs to mine, 
Im not persuaded to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6856739