K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car he has on finance with Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) 
was faulty or developing a fault when  it was supplied to him. 
background
Mr A took receipt of a used car in June 2017  the car had completed  23,000  miles when he 
took receipt of it and was five years old. Mr A financed the deal through  a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. 
In March 2018 Mr A was unable to start the car. He replaced the starter  motor but that didnt  
resolve the issue and a garage subsequently  identified a faulty Electronic Control Unit (ECU) 
as the cause. This was replaced and the car worked  satisfactorily but in late July the car 
failed again and Mr A decided  hed had enough; so he voluntarily terminated his agreement  
with Moneybarn. The car was sold at auction on 3 September  2018.
Mr A complained to Moneybarn but they explained  that they were only responsible  for faults  
that were there at the start of the finance  agreement or were developing at that point. They 
didnt think there was any evidence that the fault with the ECU was developing at the point of 
supply and noted that Mr A had managed to cover almost 10,000 miles in the car and that 
the MOT that had been completed didnt raise  any related issues. So they thought it was 
most likely the fault had developed at some point after the inception of the deal.
But Mr A disagreed. He said the ECU  should last the cars lifetime  and the fault was clearly  
developing at the point of supply and he referred  his complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator took a look at the evidence but didnt think  there  was enough  to uphold Mr As 
complaint. He explained that, as the car had been  sold, it was not possible to arrange  an 
independent inspection to get an experts  view on the origin of the problem. So he didnt  
think he had enough  information to suggest  the fault was there from the beginning and that 
Moneybarn should  therefore take some further action.
But Mr A disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest there was a problem at the point of supply.  I 
know that will disappoint Mr A so please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, as the 
Ref: DRN67032942provider of credit, are responsible. And if I thought the car was faulty when supplied, Id think  
it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But their responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Theyre not responsible for problems that 
occur after the inception of the finance  deal.
Mr A didnt report any problems until hed had the car for nine months and I think  its 
reasonable to suggest that, as so much time had elapsed, he would need  to demonstrate the 
fault had been there  or developing  from the start. It may well be, as Mr A says, that ECUs 
are designed  to last for the cars lifetime but thats not what we have to decide here. Theres 
no doubt that the ECU failed but the question  is whether it was failing at the point of supply 
or whether this failure  happened later. 
I think its most likely  the ECU  started  to go wrong at some  point after Mr A received it. I say 
that because he completed a reasonable, apparently trouble free, mileage before the failure 
and I think if problems were present he would be more likely to have  noticed  a deterioration 
in performance.
I also note that the MOT didnt highlight any related abnormalities and whilst I accept that an 
ECU may be designed for life, I think its reasonable to suggest that, if one did fail, it could 
happen at any time in the vehicles life i.e. through moisture ingress  or corrosion.
So in these  circumstances  I dont think Moneybarn need to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6703294