K820x#14complaint
In 2000, Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide). 
At the same time, Nationwide sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr and 
Mrs D believe  that Nationwide mis-sold this policy to them and want it to refund them  all the 
premiums they paid for it, plus interest.  
background 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
Nationwide had mis-sold the policy  to Mr and Mrs D and didnt recommend that it should 
uphold their complaint.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
their case,  so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do about  Mr and Mrs Ds case.  Ive considered everything  that Mr and Mrs D and 
Nationwide have sent us or told us about the complaint and Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr and Mrs D and Nationwide have agreed  that Mr and Mrs D bought the PPI policy during a 
meeting they attended to arrange their mortgage. They  have also agreed that Nationwide  
didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs D or give them any advice  about  it. 
Mr and Mrs D seem to have accepted  that Nationwide  told them that PPI was optional and 
that they could  apply  for their mortgage with or without buying  the policy.  And Nationwide  
has sent us some of the paperwork from the meeting which  also seems to show that it gave 
Mr and Mrs D a choice, so Im satisfied that it did. 
Even though  Nationwide didnt recommend  PPI to Mr and Mrs D, it still had to tell them 
about the policy fairly and clearly so they could decide if the wanted it. But, Mr and Mrs D 
have told us that Nationwide didnt tell them  about the policys exclusions,  and didnt put 
them into a position to make an informed decision as to whether (the) policy  was suitable  for 
(their) specific needs.
Obviously, I dont know what Nationwide  did or didnt say to Mr and Mrs D during the 
meeting, and I cant be certain  what policy leaflets or other  information,  if any, it gave them 
about PPI. And I accept  that Nationwide may not have explained things properly. So Ive 
looked into the policy to see if it had any features which would have stopped  Mr and Mrs D 
buying it if Nationwide had explained  things as it should have done. 
Although Mr and Mrs D took the mortgage  jointly, the policy  only covered Mr D who was the 
main wage earner  at the time, so Ive mainly considered his circumstances. 
From what  Mr and Mrs D have told us about  their circumstances, Mr D was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions  or limitations, such as those  which 
may have  affected  some  people who were self employed or who were  in poor health when 
they took the policy. Mr and Mrs D also seem  to have been able to afford the premiums 
alongside their mortgage. So I dont think better information about  PPI would have put Mr 
and Mrs D off taking  the policy. 
Ref: DRN62252372Mr and Mrs D have also told us that if Mr D had lost his job, he would have received a 
significant redundancy payment from his employer, and that if he was off work  ill he would 
have received sick pay for quite a long time; so they dont think they needed the type of 
cover the policy  provided. But as Nationwide sold the policy to Mr and Mrs D on an 
information  only basis, without making  a personal recommendation, it wasnt obliged to 
check their need for cover. This was something  for them  to decide for themselves. Despite 
this, I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs D that if Mr D had been off work ill and had needed  
to claim, the policy could  have paid out over and above his sick pay. I also understand that 
the particular policy they bought didnt provide redundancy cover  and so didnt duplicate any 
protection for redundancy which  Mr  D may have received from his employer. 
Mr and Mrs D have also mentioned other  types  of insurance they held when they took their 
mortgage, but again as Nationwide didnt recommend PPI, these were  issues  for Mr and Mrs 
D to consider for themselves.
So while I accept the Nationwide may not have got everything right,  I dont think  it mis-sold 
PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about 
Nationwide Building  Society. Im not going to tell it to give them  any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6225237