K820x#14complaint
Mr B says MBNA Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  
The policy was added  to Mr Bs credit card account when he applied  for the card by post. It 
protected his credit  card monthly repayments  in the event of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagrees, so the complaint has been 
referred to me. 
Mr B mainly  complains that PPI wasnt properly explained  in particular, he says it wasnt 
apparent to him that PPI was optional and the true cost of PPI wasnt clear.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
the application Mr B filled in gave a brief overall  description indicating what  the cover  
was for. And it set out the cost  right next to where Mr B ticked  a box saying Yes to 
the policy. There was a No option he couldve ticked instead if he hadnt wanted 
PPI. So I find that MBNA made  Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose  
to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him. But it did still have to give Mr B enough information to be able to make  a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him  and if it didn't do this, Ive 
thought about whether that makes any overall  difference  to what  happened.
Its possible some of the information  MBNA  gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr B doesnt  appear to have had other means  to make his 
credit card repayments if he couldnt  work.  The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months if Mr B lost his job unexpectedly  and he was out of work. And in the event 
of accident or sickness the minimum monthly repayments on his credit card wouldve 
been covered  for as long as Mr B was off work.  So I cant reasonably say that Mr B 
couldnt have  benefitted from the PPI. 
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve  limited  the policys  
benefit to him. So, even if these werent mentioned,  I dont think  that knowing more 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve made any difference  to Mr Bs decision 
to take out the cover.  
Ref: DRN65509252I dont think MBNA  properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might 
pay out if Mr B made a claim.  But MBNA made Mr B aware  that hed be charged  68p 
per £100  of his statement balance. And, even if he hadnt fully appreciated  how much 
this would actually  be on a month  to month  basis, Mr B chose to take out the policy 
when he didnt have  to  so he seems  to have wanted it. And it appears  the policy 
was affordable for him. He couldve  cancelled  it at any time if he decided he didnt 
want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken carefully  into account everything that Mr B has said in 
response to our adjudicators assessment. Ive thought about whether this makes  any 
difference to the outcome of his complaint  and it doesnt. So what he says doesnt affect 
my overall decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6550925