K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont return an unpaid  cheque so she can represent 
it. Shes  now unable  to recover the money.
background
Mrs F visited a branch of Lloyds to deposit  a cheque for £600. A member of staff suggested  
she use the automated  paying-in machine as it would be quicker. The following day Mrs F 
noticed the cheque had been debited from her account. It was unpaid. Mrs F was contacted 
by the writer of the cheque two days later. The person now had enough money in their 
account. So they asked Mrs F to present  the cheque to her bank again.
Mrs F waited  for Lloyds to send  the cheque back.  But it never arrived. And when she spoke 
to someone at Lloyds  she was told unpaid cheques were now retained in the branch. So 
theyd ask the branch to represent  the cheque and let Mrs F know.  Mrs F tried to make 
contact with her branch  on numerous  occasions.  But her calls went  unanswered. She was 
finally told her cheque  couldnt be represented  because itd been destroyed. Mrs F says she 
hasnt been able to recover the money  and she wants Lloyds to sort things out.
Lloyds explained  that cheques deposited  through its machines are now processed using 
cheque imaging. It meant the cheque cleared much  sooner. But it also meant unpaid 
cheques couldnt  be returned any more. Lloyds  said Mrs F shouldve  received a letter saying 
she needed to ask the drawer  to provide a new cheque. But the letter  hadnt been  sent.  And 
Mrs F had been given the wrong information when shed spoken to the bank. Lloyds initially  
offered Mrs F £30 for any distress or inconvenience caused and a further £9 to cover the 
costs of her calls. But after reviewing the complaint it agreed it couldve dealt with things 
better. So it offered an additional £50 to Mrs F.
 
Mrs F wasnt satisfied  with Bs response. So she contacted our service and our investigator  
looked into the matter. He could see a new cheque clearing system had been introduced. 
And most banks, including Lloyds, had started  to use it. The system took an image of the 
cheque and then destroyed  it. He said Lloyds shouldve written to Mrs F when the cheque 
bounced. But her friend,  whod  written the cheque, had already let Mrs F know that would 
happen. So he didnt  think the banks delay had caused any significant  impact. And he felt 
the compensation offered  was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs F didnt  agree. Unpaid cheques had always  been returned to her in the past when shed 
used the machines in other  branches.  And she hadnt been able to contact her friend to ask 
for a new cheque as hed travelled abroad. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting  this mustve been for Mrs F. She paid a cheque into her account 
using an automated machine. But the person whod given her the cheque  didnt have  
enough money in their account. So she was asked to represent it a few days  later.
Ref: DRN63729102I realise Mrs F had cheques returned  in the past when theyve not cleared. And she feels  
different branches  have  different  procedures at the moment.  But Lloyds, like other banks, is 
changing to a new system  for clearing cheques. Its upgrading its branches one at a time. 
And Ive not seen  anything to suggest  the branch where Mrs F presented  her cheque didnt 
follow the correct  procedure.
Branches using  immediate deposit  machines take a digital image of the cheque  before its 
destroyed. So its no longer possible to return unpaid cheques to customers.  Lloyds 
accepted it shouldve sent a letter to Mrs F explaining the cheque was unpaid. But due a 
system error  the letter  hadnt been sent. 
It took Lloyds just over a week to explain it couldnt return the cheque. And Mrs F was given 
conflicting information about what was happening. But Mrs F had already noticed the cheque 
had been returned unpaid  the day after she deposited it. And the person whod given her the 
cheque also told her to represent the cheque 24 hours later.  So I think  Mrs F was aware 
there was a problem  with the cheque within a short period  of time  even if the bank failed to 
notify her immediately.
I know Mrs F says Lloyds  lied to her and gave  her conflicting information. She called the 
branch repeatedly without answer.  And she feels she received a very poor level of service. 
The person  who gave her the cheque is now abroad  and Mrs F isnt able to contact them. So 
shes lost the money that shouldve been in her account.
Ive looked very carefully at whats happened. Lloyds has accepted it shouldve written  to 
Mrs F when  the cheque didnt clear.  And it gave confusing information about what  was 
happening. So Lloyds  has agreed  to increase the offer of compensation from £30 to £80. 
And its offered  a further  £9 to cover the cost of Mrs Fs calls.
I do sympathise with the situation she finds herself  in. And I think  its right the bank 
compensate Mrs F for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service. 
But I cant hold the bank liable for the cheque not clearing. Its the responsibility  of the 
person issuing the cheque to make sure theres enough money  in their account. And I cant  
say Lloyds is to blame because  the person moved  abroad  and hasnt been  in touch to ask 
why Mrs F hasnt  represented the cheque.  
I know Mrs F will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen  I think  the 
offer of £89 compensation for the poor service  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Ref: DRN63729103Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6372910