K822xcomplaint
Mr U complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background 
Mr U complained to Barclays about  some  disputed transactions because he thought he had 
fallen victim to impersonation fraud.  The disputed transactions were refunded with but Mr U 
was not happy with the service he had received.   
He said his address  had been changed  on his account and Barclays  had got his name 
wrong and was refusing to change it.
Barclays upheld his complaint.  It said the address had been changed in error by a member 
of staff  but this had since been corrected.   It offered Mr U £100  for the poor service.
Mr U then came to this service and explained  to our investigator how being a victim  of fraud 
had impacted him.  In summary,  he said he had suffered financially and mentally and wanted 
to be compensated  accordingly.
Our investigator thought the £100 previously offered was not fair in the circumstances.  She 
thought Barclays  should pay Mr U another £150   so £250 in total.
Barclays agreed to do this but Mr U thought the offer was still too low for the impact  the 
complaint had had on him.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I think the 
offer suggested by the investigator  is a fair and reasonable one.
Mr U says that as a result of the fraud on his account, he suffered a substantial loss  
including having  to move  home, stop using  his phone  and the internet and paying for all 
transactions in cash.
Ive thought about the impact Mr U says this has had on him but I cant see that he told 
Barclays about that impact in as much detail.  I think its fair to assume he would have done 
if he had suffered as he says he did.
And I remind myself that this services role is not to punish Barclays  but to assess  whether 
it has done anything  wrong in how it dealt  with Mr Us complaint.
I agree  that the original offer of £100  was unfair  but I think the increased offer of £250 is 
one which  I would have  awarded in the circumstances  of this case. Therefore, I wont  be 
asking Barclays to pay anymore.
Ref: DRN67708952my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr U £250  in full and final settlement of this complaint (to 
include the £100 originally offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6770895