K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Lowell  Financial Ltd chased  him for a debt that isnt his.
background
Lowell wrote to Mr S about  money  owing on a catalogue account. But Mr S said the debt 
wasnt his. 
Following his complaint,  Lowell cleared  the account  balance and said there wouldnt be any 
record of the debt on Mr Ss credit  file.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  it was 
unfair for Lowell to chase Mr S for the debt,  and she was satisfied it acted reasonably in 
doing so. Lowell had confirmed the debt was no longer payable and there was no default 
recorded on Mr Ss credit  file. The investigator didnt think Lowell needed to do anything 
else.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lowell bought the debt in question from a third party in 2018. It contacted  Mr S about the 
amount owing, but it seems it wrote to him at an address that wasnt  his. 
When Lowell  didnt  hear from Mr S it carried out another  trace  which identified his correct  
address. It wrote  to him again and Mr S responded to say the debt wasnt  his.
Lowell sent Mr S the details it had about the debt and said it would freeze the account while  
he checked his records. In response, Mr S complained and maintained  that the debt wasnt 
his.
In response to Mr Ss complaint, Lowell cleared  the account balance and said there  wouldnt 
be any trace  of the debt on his credit record.
Im mindful that when  Lowell first contacted Mr S it wrote to him at a different address. This 
was the address on the credit agreement. From  what Ive seen, Im not persuaded  that Mr S 
has ever lived at that address.
Lowell traced Mr S to his correct address. But given the address discrepancy I think  it 
wouldve been reasonable for Lowell to carry out further checks when Mr S told it the debt 
wasnt his. I dont think it was reasonable for Mr S to have to complain to prompt Lowell to 
review the account.  
Lowell reduced  the account balance to zero and said there  would be no record of the debt 
on Mr Ss credit file. I think thats  reasonable, but I also think Lowell should pay £100 to Mr S 
for its poor handling  of the matter  when he first told it the debt wasnt his.
Ref: DRN64847932my final decision
My decision  is that Lowell should pay £100  to Mr S, in addition to the action  it has taken to 
clear the account  balance  and correct Mr Ss credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6484793