K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
December 1998.  Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt think the PPI 
was mis-sold. I also explained why Bank  of Scotland  had to pay back to Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I asked 
everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Neither Mrs B nor Bank of Scotland responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive not received any new evidence,  
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont think  the PPI policy was 
mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in
December 1998. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in December 1998  at the same time as taking out a credit card. The sale took 
place by way of a postal application.
Ref: DRN65714392Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs B says she wasnt given an option  of having the credit  card without the PPI. She says that had 
she been given a choice,  she would  have  declined  it. So, Ive thought  about  what  shes said alongside 
the additional information Ive seen from Bank  of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland  has provided us with a copy of Mrs Bs credit agreement. This shows Mrs B was 
given the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under  the section Credit Care Mrs B was asked to 
sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking  at Mrs Bs credit  agreement , I can see she signed below the 
statement YES I want you to arrange Credit  Care Insurance  to protect  my repayments. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not Mrs B would  have understood the PPI 
was optional. And I dont think she would have signed for the cover if she didnt  want to take it out.
Bank of Scotland  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs B got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave  Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been  particularly about the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs B chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted  this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, such  as pre-
existing medical conditions  so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mrs B has told us she didnt need PPI as she would  have  received generous sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some savings  which she could 
have used to cover  her credit card repayments.
Ive thought about what Mrs B has told us about her sick pay. She says she would have been entitled 
to at least 12 months  sick pay from her employer  if she was too unwell  to work. While I dont doubt  
Mrs Bs employer did offer generous  benefits,  in my experience full sick pay for 12 months is unusual,  
particularly for someone who had only been in their job for two years, like Mrs B. So, I dont think the 
sick pay Mrs B was likely to have had, would  have  meant that PPI wasnt useful for her. I say this 
because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs B would  have received from her 
employer and would have paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs 
B was ever made  redundant.
Theres been  some confusion about Mrs Bs savings,  specifically the amount  she says she had. 
Weve asked  for further information to support what shes told us, but there have been  some 
inconsistencies in the information provided which  have led me to place limited weight on Mrs Bs 
recollections of her circumstances at the time of sale.
So, based on the information provided, I cant be sure how much Mrs B held in savings in December  
1998. If I accept that Mrs B may have had some savings, but not as much as she says she had, I 
dont think this means she didnt need the PPI. A successful claim under her PPI policy would have 
Ref: DRN65714393meant she could have  used her savings to cover  any other  financial commitments she may have had 
during what  could be a difficult time.  
So overall, I think  Mrs B couldve found the policy  useful if she ever fell on hard times and I dont think  
that any better information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
As its not clear how much  Mrs B held in savings, Id like to give her one final opportunity to provide 
our service with some additional information to support what shes told us. If Mrs B can provide me 
with this information before  the response date mentioned  above, Id be happy to reconsider my 
findings.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Bank of 
Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Bank of Scotland  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Bank of Scotland  didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mrs B has commented on the non-disclosure of commission by businesses.  Mrs B says there have  
been other court  cases in relation to non-disclosure  of commission where consumers have received 
everything back. So she thinks  Bank of Scotland should refund all of the money  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need  to take into account when deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint  is the law. But I also need to take into account relevant regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Bank of Scotland  has made Mrs B an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line  with the methods  set out by the FCA. But Mrs B wants  Bank of 
Scotland to do something different. 
I have looked at the particular circumstances of Mrs B and her complaint to see if theres  anything  
about her circumstances  that would  mean Bank  of Scotland should  do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs  rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mrs B. But there isnt 
anything about Mrs Bs complaint or circumstances  that suggest the redress offered by Bank of 
Scotland isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Bank of Scotlands offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland  plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont  award any 
further compensation. 
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6571439