K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt offer him any help when he was in 
financial difficulty and his requests for help were ignored.
background
Mr F took out a mortgage with Barclays in January 2008. This mortgage  was taken out on a 
capital repayment  basis over a term of 25 years.
In February 2016,  Mr F contacted Barclays to inform them  that he had lost his job and that 
he had been out of work since November 2015.  Mr F says he told them he was able to keep 
up with his repayments with family support and some savings that he had. But he said he 
was concerned as his savings were running out and he wanted  to know  what options he had 
available to manage his mortgage  account going forward.
In April 2016, a power  of attorney was added to Mr Fs mortgage account and Mr F says that 
his mortgage account was up to date at this time.
Mr F contacted Barclays again in July 2017 asking them  to switch his mortgage  to interest 
only. He said he wanted to make lower  payments  to his mortgage until he found  a new job. 
Barclays said that this couldnt be done and after an income and expenditure was 
completed, they said it would be unaffordable for Mr F. Barclays  recommended  that Mr F 
seek independent financial advice and no further  action was taken  by Barclays.
Mr F says that Barclays didnt do anything to try and help his situation and in August 2017, 
Mr F fell into arrears  with his mortgage.  Barclays started its litigation process in October 
2018.
Barclays issued a final response letter in October 2018 saying they had spoken to Mr F and 
agreed an outcome  that he was happy  with. But Mr F says he wasnt happy  as he felt they 
didnt do enough  to help him and just sent him a letter saying his complaint had been 
resolved. So he brought  the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think that Barclays had done enough to help Mr F and she thought  
that he could have afforded interest only payments  from September  2018 - so a concession 
would have been fair. She asked Barclays to carry out the following:
remove any fees, charges and arrears applied since September 2018
re-work the mortgage balance to date, to reflect Mr F being on interest  only payments 
from October 2018 for six months as his working  situation was due to improve  within  
that time period
update Mr Fs credit  file to reflect these changes
compensate Mr F £350  for failing to provide  options and support as a lender
complete an income and expenditure to assess Mr Fs current  financial situation and 
arrange a reasonable  strategy  for both parties moving forward   where  that is 
available
Ref: DRN62528822Barclays disagreed  and made a number of comments. They said:
the only error they made was delaying  contacting Mr F when they should  have done 
it sooner
they have  to allow a further  £100 for contingencies when carrying out an income and 
expenditure so they said Mr F couldnt  afford the interest only payments
they cannot allow Mr F to pay less than the interest that would be accruing on his 
mortgage as this would increase his balance
Mr F didnt make  any payments  towards his mortgage from July 2017  October  
2018 and they didnt  see a reason  why he could not have  made any payments  
based on what he could  afford at the time
although Mr F said his job situation would change in six months   this wasnt 
guaranteed so they would  not offer a concession
they advised Mr F to seek  independent financial advice as he was also in arrears 
with the rent side of his shared ownership property. They said they gave him two 
weeks to seek advice  and get back to them
even if an arrangement had been put in place,  arrears would still continue  to accrue 
on the mortgage and this would  have been reported to credit  reference agencies
Barclays said they were willing to pay some compensation for the delay in responding to 
Mr Fs letters. They were  also willing to complete a new income and expenditure to see what  
options are available for Mr F. But they said they wouldnt agree to any of the other 
conditions which were  put forward.
As they disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the contact notes that have been  provided by Barclays and I think  its clear that 
Mr F was in financial  difficulty  and was looking for assistance.
Barclays doesnt agree that they made any error other than not responding to Mr Fs letters  
when he was asking  for help.  But Im inclined to disagree. Barclays  have said that when they 
completed the income and expenditure for Mr F, they needed to allow a further £100 for 
contingencies and that Mr F only had £24.41  available  which  wasnt  enough to cover the 
interest only payment   so they wouldnt offer him an interest only concession.  I dont think  
this is fair in the circumstances  of this case.
Its clear from the situation  that Mr F was in, that he was in financial difficulties. He first 
contacted Barclays  in February 2016,  by phone, to let them know that he had lost his job. 
Having thought about Mr Fs situation  and the contact he has had throughout with Barclays, 
Im not persuaded that Barclays did enough to help him and that not offering him an interest  
only concession was the fair thing to do in the circumstances of this case.
Where a borrower doesnt,  or cant meet their mortgage  payments theyll  fall into arrears. If 
that happens, the lenders remedy under the terms of the mortgage is to repossess the 
property.
Ref: DRN62528823However, the rules  of mortgage regulation say that repossession should be a last resort   it 
should not happen unless  all other reasonable attempts to resolve the situation  have  failed.
The rules  go on to say that, in complying with the requirement to explore all other  reasonable 
attempts at resolution first, the lender should  consider whether, given the individual 
circumstances of the customer,  it is appropriate  to do one or more  of the following. The rule 
then lists options  including  extending  the term, changing the type of mortgage, deferring 
payment of interest,  capitalising arrears and government forbearance.
In this case, Mr F wanted Barclays  to consider changing the type of the mortgage,  from repayment 
to interest only. But Barclays wouldnt consider  that  because they said Mr F didnt meet  the 
criteria for doing so. 
Where a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties they need to co-operate with their lender in 
trying to find a way forward  and the lender needs to treat the borrower fairly and explore all the 
options.
Barclays wouldnt consider switching Mr Fs mortgage to interest  only because they said he 
didnt have enough disposable  income at the end  they required at least £100 to be 
outstanding. So because of this, they said he couldnt afford the interest only payments. 
In Mr Fs particular  circumstances,  a switch to interest only for a limited  period may well have 
assisted him. He needed a period of reduced  payments  while he was trying to increase  his income. 
The contact  notes suggest that Mr F had a new job since April 2018 and he was hoping to get a 
promotion. Barclays said there was no guarantee that this would happen within  the time frame he 
mentioned  six months, but I think that Barclays should have done  more to help him. From what  I 
have seen, Mr F could have an interest only concession from September 2018 as the contact 
notes suggest  that he could afford the interest  only payments at this time. This would have given 
him some space and the lower monthly payments would have helped him.
Had a concession have  been agreed, this would  have led to a slight increase in Mr Fs contractual  
monthly payment  once  it ended but it would  have avoided arrears accruing any further. I think  this 
would have been in Mr Fs best interests  at the time. 
Barclays have said that there was a period where Mr F didnt make  any payments towards his 
mortgage. But from what I can see, he was still in touch with Barclays  during this time and I cant 
see that Barclays tried to reach a resolution that was fair and reasonable to both parties.
From the contact notes  I have seen, Mr F was engaging with Barclays at all times.  He was honest  
with them  from the beginning  about his situation  and its clear  he asked for help on a number of 
occasions, but Barclays used their criteria  as a reason for not helping him and instead referred him 
to an independent financial adviser.  I dont  think this was fair.
I think there are several occasions where Barclays could  have done more to help Mr F. I 
appreciate it was up to him to keep his monthly  payments  up to date but Mr F was in financial 
difficulty and he did ask Barclays  for help on a number of occasions. I think  as a lender, Barclays 
should have shown some  forbearance and should  have had a discussion  about various  options  
with Mr F. If Barclays believed that an interest  only concession  was not the right thing for Mr F, 
they should have explored other  options with him  and I cant see that they did this.
Ref: DRN62528824In the particular circumstances of this case,  and taking into account Mr Fs individual  situation, I 
think Barclays should have been  willing to explore with him whether a temporary interest only 
concession would have  assisted. In recognition of the fact that they didnt, which  contributed to 
Mr Fs upset  at his situation;  I agree compensation of £350 is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Barclays  
Bank UK PLC to:
remove any fees, charges and arrears applied since September 2018
re-work the mortgage balance to date, to reflect Mr F being on interest  only payments 
from October 2018 for six months as his working  situation was due to improve  within  
that time period
update Mr Fs credit  file to reflect these changes
compensate Mr F £350  for failing to provide  options and support as a lender
complete an income and expenditure to assess Mr Fs current  financial situation and 
arrange a reasonable  strategy  for both parties moving forward   where  that is 
available
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6252882