K820x#14complaint
D, a limited company,  complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not arrange the transfer  of money  
held in its existing  bank account  with another financial business when it switched its account.
background
D started an application online for a new account  with Lloyds and to switch its existing 
account with a different financial business.  Lloyds sent it a form to complete to confirm  the 
switch which  D sent back. The new account  was opened but the funds were  not transferred. 
D thought these have been  lost.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that Lloyds  
attempted to process the switch with the information on the form. But this was rejected by 
Ds existing bank. All the information needed had not been  completed. Lloyds asked D to 
complete further  forms on 9 June 2018 and 9 July 2018. But it did not receive  them back.
D did not agree. It said it was told by Lloyds that it did not need to complete all the 
information about its existing bank on the printed form as this had been  captured online. It 
does not know  why Lloyds told it that the account  was open and active  on 21 May 2018 
when it had not made the transfer.  For a period its contact with Lloyds was ignored until it 
raised a complaint. It had since taken less than 30 minutes of contact with the existing 
financial business to arrange for its money to be transferred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that D completed the details  of its existing bank account in its online  
application. For reasons  which are not clear these  were not replicated on the printed form 
Lloyds sent to D. A key reason for that form being produced  was so that D could confirm its 
authority to the transfer. The relevant part was not completed and signed  on behalf of D. And 
D clearly thought it had already given Lloyds  what was needed  and the switch would be 
guaranteed to happen under the terms of the current account switch  guarantee.
Lloyds accepts that it should have  picked this omission up. In its first final response of 9 July 
2018 it said it had paid D compensation of £50 for not doing so. Unfortunately D still had to 
complete that part of the form whatever it had been  previously  told. It did not do so and its 
existing bank rejected  the switch saying it did not have Ds authority. I dont think  Lloyds 
could do anything further without that authority.
There was clearly some confusion created here. And Lloyds never had an effective switch  
authorisation from D. It offered to put this right and paid compensation. I think that was 
reasonable and so I wont be asking  it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN61662672my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC does 
not need to take any further  action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6166267