K820x#14complaint
Mr S says the used  car he acquired  via a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  He also complains that the warranty was mis-sold to 
him and that the car had previously been in an accident which  he wasnt informed of at the 
point of sale. 
background 
In June 2017 Mr S acquired a used car via 5 year conditional sale agreement  with Close 
Brothers. The car was nine years old and had a mileage  of 83,000. 
Mr S says he was told he would receive  an extended warranty  with the car. The dealership 
sent Mr S the warranty paperwork a few days after hed acquired the car. The warranty  
paperwork Mr S received was for a standard 12 months with a £500  claim  limit. Mr S didnt 
complain to the dealership about the warranty at the time. 
Shortly after collection the cars oil warning light illuminated. The car was repaired by the 
dealership and returned. It passed its MOT in December 2017 and by that point Mr S had 
driven around 5000 miles in it. 
In May 2018  the car broke down. Mr S had driven  around 9,000 miles in the car since  hed 
acquired it. He had the car inspected by an approved engineer who advised  him that two of 
the three major components of the engine  had failed. The piston connecting rod had exited 
the cylinder block between cylinders 7 and 8 causing damage to the crankshaft and cylinder 
block. The engineer contacted the manufacturer to see if it would make  a goodwill gesture 
towards repairs. 
Mr S says that the manufacturer offered to cover 50% of the cost of a new engine  but the 
repair bill was still around £9,500. 
So Mr S contacted a specialist  engineer  to see if there were  other  options.  This specialist 
advised that the repair work would be in the region of £9-10,000. He said that the root cause 
was probably the failed  rod bearings and that he thought it likely the rod bearings had been 
worn at point of sale based  on the mileage Mr S had covered in the car.  
Mr S wanted  to reject the car as he considered the car hadnt been  of satisfactory quality at 
point of sale. Mr S complained to Close Brothers about the car and the warranty. Close 
Brothers didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that the worn rod bearings werent  the same  
as failed ones  and as the car was nine years old with over 80,000 miles some wear and tear 
should be expected. It said Mr S had been able to use the car for one year without a problem 
and this showed the car had been  of satisfactory  quality.
Ref: DRN68576072Mr S was unhappy at Close Brothers  response and complained to this service. He said that 
the warranty wasnt what hed expected  and he had discovered the car had been involved in 
an accident that couldve led to the engine being damaged  and the current problems arising. 
He said the dealership hadnt told him about  any accident. Mr S also said that this type of 
engine failure  wouldnt be expected on a car of this age and mileage. He said he had used, 
maintained and serviced the car properly. Mr S said when he bought  the car hed asked if 
any work had been done  to the actuators  and bearings. He said the dealership informed him 
that it thought  some  work  had been carried out on theses parts  at around 70,000  miles.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She said it was 
reasonable for a used car to have some  wear and tear though it should still be durable.  This 
means that the components of a car should function without any significant issue for a 
reasonable period of time.  
The investigator said that looking at the evidence from the specialist, she had noted that hed 
stated that rod bearings could wear over time and their durability depended on a number 
factors including how the car is driven, how it was maintained and used.  Taking into account 
the length of time Mr S had had the car and the number  of miles hed been able to drive  she 
thought it was unlikely the car hadnt been  of satisfactory quality when hed acquired it.
The investigator also said she didnt  think the car had been misrepresented  to Mr S. In 
regards to the warranty, the sales  invoice  had shown that a 12 month warranty  at no cost 
had been included and this had a claims limit of £500.  Mr S had not raised any issue  with the 
warranty when hed received the paperwork.  
In regards to the accident, a repair invoice had been  provided by the dealership to Mr S 
when hed acquired the car. So by providing the paperwork the investigator didnt think the 
dealership had tried to conceal anything. There was no evidence  that suggested  a previous 
accident had caused the fault the car now had.  
In regards to the early  work on the vehicle, the investigator said she thought it unlikely that 
the dealership  would say work  had been carried out if it didnt have the paperwork to prove 
it. And as Mr S said this repair work was very important to him regarding  the decision to go 
ahead with the car she wouldve expected him to check or ask for evidence of what  work had 
been conducted to verify  the position.  
Mr S was unhappy at our investigators view. He says the specialists evidence confirms the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He hadnt  misused the car and had only driven around 
10,000 miles in it which meant he couldnt have caused this amount  of damage. The rod 
bearings werent a serviceable item and so he queried whether they should be classed as 
fair wear and tear. He said the evidence showed  the bearings had to have been  in a poor 
state at the point of sale. 
Hed believed the extended warranty had been included  in the cost of the car and hed paid 
a premium price for the car because of this.
The dealership had told him the car had been background checked and it wouldnt deal in 
cars with an accident  history. It seemed that either  the dealership had wanted to hide this 
fact or hadnt properly  checked the cars  history. He says that the accident wouldve led to 
the cars  price being lower.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN68576073my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  the car supplied  to Mr S must be of satisfactory 
quality, fit for purpose and as described.  Mr S says that not only was the car faulty  at the 
point of sale but that the dealership had misled him about the warranty, that repairs to 
certain parts had already  been carried out and it also failed to disclose the car had been 
involved in an accident. 
When a car is purchased  under a credit agreement then the finance  company, in this case 
Close Brothers may be responsible if there problems with it. Its also responsible for the 
actions of the dealership if they misled  a consumer.
As more than six months have passed  since the inception of the agreement the onus is on 
Mr S to show  that the car was faulty  at the point of sale. He says that the specialist  he has 
been dealing  with establishes this. I think it isnt disputed that its likely the rod bearings were  
worn at the point of sale but because a part is worn  this doesnt automatically mean the car 
wasnt of satisfactory condition. Thats because satisfactory condition takes into account  the 
age and mileage  of the car. So a new car would be expected to be fault free but an older and 
used one would reasonably be expected to be showing  some  signs of wear and tear.
The specialist consulted  by Mr S says there isnt a definitive answer as to when they (rod 
bearings) can fail. He also said that bearings can wear over a period  of time but can fail 
instantly and that hed seen bearings  fail with  as little as 30k miles. He said that driving  
style has a huge affect on wear. 
Ive seen that the life span of the rod bearings  also depends on the servicing of the vehicle 
as they are under constant use and should  be properly lubricated. I havent seen a copy of 
the service book so I cant check the cars  history  but Mr S says that he thinks when the oil 
warning light illuminated after he first took the car that the dealership  may have damaged the 
engine by over filling  it and using the wrong oil. But I havent seen any evidence  that 
suggests the engine was damaged at that time. Ive seen that the car successfully  passed  its 
MOT in December 2017.
Mr S says this is a common fault with this car and newer models  have now been modified. 
But I dont have any evidence that this is a known fault accepted by the manufacturer as no 
recall notices have  been  issued. I cant reasonably accept the rod bearings  were inherently 
faulty due to the make and model  of the car.
Looking at the evidence I dont think Ive enough  evidence to say that the rod bearings  were 
faulty at the point of sale. They were worn but lasted for a further 11 months and over 9,000 
miles. And from whatve  seen I cant say that rod bearings wouldnt wear out at this cars 
mileage. But if theyd been badly  worn at the point of sale I wouldve expected them  to fail 
before they did. 
Ref: DRN68576074Mr S says he specifically asked the dealership  if the car had had work carried  out on its 
throttle actuators  and bottom end bearings  as hed been advised to raise this. Mr S says the 
dealership said they thought one of actuators had been done and the bottom  end bearings 
had been done at around the 70k mile mark. Mr S says he chose this car due to being  told 
this work  had been carried out. Where evidence  is missing or contradictory  I have to decide 
what I think is the most likely thing to have  happened.  Im surprised  that if this information 
was important to Mr S in his decision to buy he didnt  check  the paperwork he received with 
car for this repair invoice  to verify what hed been  told. This is particularly so given  that the 
reply from the dealership  was rather vague about what  had been  done and when.
As there is no supporting paperwork I dont think its likely that the dealership wouldve given 
such reassurances since it could easily be verified or disputed  from the paperwork that was 
supplied with the car. So I dont think its reasonable to say that the dealership  misled  Mr S 
about these repairs.
Mr S has also said that the dealership misled him about the cars warranty and by its failure 
to tell him about  the accident. Looking at the paperwork Ive seen that the warranty was sent 
through to Mr S after hed acquired  the car. The sales invoice clearly  states  its a free 12 
month warranty with a £500 limit placed  on a claim.  Mr S says he was only aware that it 
wasnt the extended warranty when the car broke down. Close  Brothers says that the 
extended warranty costs  an additional fee and Mr S didnt take this option.
As the paperwork is clear  about the type of warranty that came with the car I dont think its 
reasonable to say that the dealership  misled  Mr S. I think its fair to have expected  Mr S to 
check the sales invoice  and raised  any questions  at the time he received it.
Ive seen that Mr S became aware  that the car had been in an accident  via a cash sales  
invoice dated  March 2014 that was supplied with the car by the dealership.  This invoice  says 
check and advise on any damage to the underside after road accident. There isnt any 
information as to what happened but taking into account the length of time that has passed 
and the mileage of the car it would  appear unlikely that the engine  had sustained damage. 
Also as it was the dealership that provided  this to MrS I cant reasonably say they were 
trying to conceal anything from him.
Not every accident can be known by a dealership as minor scrapes  and dents wouldnt affect 
the cars  category and so wouldnt  be revealed by checks. I havent seen any evidence that 
this accident resulted  in any category alerts being  registered about this car. So I cant 
reasonably say that the dealership misled Mr S by not revealing  the car had been  involved in 
an accident. 
So looking  at the evidence and for the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint.
Ref: DRN68576075my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6857607