K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  that he 
electronically signed in November 2016. He noticed  a noise, which  he suspected to be linked 
to the rear gear differential,  in February  2017 and he was advised by a garage to monitor  it 
and to make  an appointment with a manufacturers dealer if the issue persisted. 
He returned the car to the dealer  in February 2018 because  of an issue  with its rear 
differential which was replaced. He had an issue with the cars brakes in March 2018  that 
was repaired,  the driveshaft was replaced in May 2018 and the rear differential and 
driveshaft were again replaced in September  2018. Mr S was provided with a courtesy car 
when his car was being repaired but he says that it wasnt of the same specification.  
He complained to Black  Horse in January 2019  about the issues with the car. It said that the 
first evidence of a fault with the car was identified in February 2018, fourteen months  after it 
was supplied to Mr S in which time hed covered 33,541 miles in it, so it didnt consider that 
the faults were  present or developing at the point of delivery. Mr S wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
evidence that hed seen identified faults with the car but didnt attribute those faults to the 
point of sale so he was unable to conclude  that Mr S was entitled to reject the car.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that the differential has broken five times  in fourteen months and hes paying for the car but 
been unable  to use it when it was being repaired.  He says that his car was off the road for 
almost four months when it was last repaired.  He also says that hes provided evidence  that 
there was a suspected fault at the time of purchase. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr S was about twenty months 
old, had been  driven for 11,953 miles and had a price of £30,975. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr S in November 2016 with a mileage of 11,953. He noticed a 
noise, which  he suspected to be linked to the rear gear differential, in February 2017 and he 
was advised by a garage  to monitor it and to make an appointment with a manufacturers  
dealer if the issue  persisted. The cars mileage was recorded on the garages invoice as 
Ref: DRN63160322being 14,275 at that time so Mr S had used the car to drive  2,322 miles. Ive seen  no 
evidence to show that Mr S took any action about the cars differential until February 2018  
a year later  and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality in February  2017 because of an issue with its differential.
He returned the car to the dealer  in February 2018 because  of an issue  with its rear 
differential and it was replaced  by the dealer under warranty. The cars mileage at that time 
was 45,591 so the car had been  driven for more  than 33,000  miles since  it was supplied  to 
Mr S.
He had further issues with the car: its brakes  were repaired in March  2018, the driveshaft 
was replaced in May 2018 and the rear differential  and driveshaft were again replaced in 
September 2018. At that time the cars mileage was 55,714 so in less than two years hed 
been able to drive  the car for nearly  44,000  miles. The repairs  were made under the cars  
warranty so Mr S wasnt charged for them and he was provided with a courtesy car when his 
car was being repaired  (but he says that it wasnt of the same specification).
The car also passed MOT  tests in April 2018  and 2019 when its mileage was recorded as 
being 48,159 and 65,471  so between September 2018 and April 2019  Mr S was able to 
use the car to drive  nearly  10,000 miles. 
Mr S had agreed to make 47 monthly payments of £404.34 for the car and then an optional  
final payment of £14,377 if he wanted  to keep it. If he wanted to return  the car at the end of 
the agreement  he wouldnt  need to make  the optional final payment but the permitted 
maximum mileage  (including mileage on delivery) was clearly  stated in the agreement as 
being 43,950. So the cars mileage  is significantly  in excess of the permitted maximum 
mileage and the agreement says that excess mileage charges of 28p plus VAT per mile will 
be charged.
I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that hes had with the car. But I consider that the first 
fault with the car wasnt identified until February 2018  more than fourteen  months  after the 
car was supplied to him and in that time the car had been driven for 33,000  miles.  If the fault 
with the differential  was present when  the car was supplied to Mr S, I consider it to be more  
likely than not that the car would have  needed to be repaired much sooner and that he 
wouldnt have been able to drive that mileage in it. Nor am I persuaded that the later faults 
with the car are enough  to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when it was 
supplied to Mr S.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Mr S. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Black Horse  to allow Mr S to reject  the car, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN63160323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6316032