K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited wont  agree to postpone the charging  it 
has secured over his property.
background
Link holds a charging order over Mr Ts property  which was granted  by a county court in 
2008 for a defaulted debt. He owes just over £7,000. Hes currently paying  £5 per month 
towards this.
In 2018 Mr T applied to change his mortgage product with his existing first charge mortgage  
lender to lower  his monthly payments. Due to a system migration, his existing lender 
required its charge  to be removed and a new charge  added to the property. So it wrote to 
Link to ask it to agree  to postpone its existing  charge. Link didnt agree so Mr T complained 
about this decision  and, unhappy  with its response, referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ts complaint. He said, in summary, that Link wasnt  
treating Mr T fairly by not agreeing to postpone  its charge. He recommended  Link agree to 
postpone the charge as this was in Mr Ts best interests and Link wouldnt be at any 
disadvantage.
Link didnt agree with our investigator.  It said the request didnt align with its standard  
practices or internal processes and it had no obligation to postpone the charge. Link asked  
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr T requested that Link postpone  its charge, I wouldve expected  it to fairly consider 
the request taking  into account the individual circumstances  of Mr Ts situation.  I dont  think  it 
has done that here. Its explained that this request goes against its standard  practices  and it 
has no requirement to postpone  the charge. So it doesnt look like its given any individual 
consideration to Mr Ts specific  case.
Mr T isnt looking to borrow  more with his current mortgage provider. He is looking to simply 
reduce his payments to improve his financial position. The only reason the first charge needs 
to be removed and a new one added is because of an internal restructure within  his existing 
mortgage lender.
I cant see that Links security will be affected if it agrees to the charge, but Mr Ts ability  to 
pay towards the money he owes Link may improve due to his mortgage payments reducing. 
And as Mr Ts debt to his existing lender isnt increasing, I cant see that this would affect  
Links ability  to recover its money  should possession of the property ever be sought.
 
Because of this, I dont think Link has made  a fair decision in declining  Mr Ts request to 
postpone its charge.  And Ive seen nothing  to suggest it isnt able to do this, it just wont. So I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable in these  individual circumstances for Link to postpone  
its charge.
Ref: DRN65190162my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and require Link Financial  Outsourcing  Limited to 
allow and facilitate Mr Ts existing lender removing its current charge and adding  a new 
charge subject to the amount Mr T owes remaining the same.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6519016