K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mrs and Mr J say Principality Building  Society  (PBS) mis-sold to them in 1992. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case and said it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr J 
disagreed with this so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint.
Mrs and Mr J said they were  never  asked about  MPPI or were told it was optional.  Whilst I 
can accept that this is their genuine  and honest recollection now,  I take into account that 
this sale was over 26 years ago. 
So Im afraid  I think its probable that Mrs and Mr J have simply forgotten what  took place.  
This is because I can see they both completed  and signed a mortgage application form. We 
were sent a copy of that form and I can see there was a section in it about MPPI. To get a 
policy like this, there was a box that needed  to be ticked - and on their form it was. 
All this was contained  under a heading which said PRINCIPALITY PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PLAN  and it also stated that if they wanted more  information about having 
MPPI they were to tick the box for it to be sent out. The fact that the box was ticked   and 
the form signed  shows  me MPPI was clearly something Mrs and Mr J were  interested  in.
But to get the MPPI  added, another step was required. This meant a specific  MPPI 
application form was needed and I was also sent a copy  of this. This application form 
allowed for both Mrs and Mr J to become insured  under the policy. But it seems they only 
asked for Mr J to be covered and he signed  the form, which meant  MPPI was added.  I also 
note the policy provider changed a few years after this and that policy-holders were written  
to explaining  the change. PBS sent us an example  of the letter  that went out to customers.
So I think all these things show, quite strongly, that Mrs and Mr J did ask for MPPI and they 
would have known  they had a choice. I therefore think  they consented to the policy.
PBS says this wasnt an advised  sale, so it was Mrs and Mr Js responsibility to make  sure 
the cover  was right for them. As Ive explained, there was a time gap between  them  
agreeing their mortgage and deciding about the MPPI, so I agree about the type of sale this 
was. But Id also add that I dont think this really matters.
Ref: DRN61482062This is because I think Mr J was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I think the cost of the cover was 
comparable with similar products I know were marketed at that time and I dont  think  the 
monthly premiums would have been unaffordable for them.  I also note that Mr J was the 
higher earner, so it seems  sensible that he was covered.
I think Mr J would have had some  protection from sickness with his job and its been  implied  
he didnt need  MPPI  because  of this. I disagree. 
Whilst I completely understand why this point  has been raised, Im afraid it doesnt 
necessarily mean the policy wasnt of use. I think the mortgage would have been a 
significant and long term commitment for Mrs and Mr J and the MPPI policy would have 
paid a monthly benefit of over £400 in the event  of something unexpected happening. This 
payment would have  been in addition to any other means they already had in place, so I 
think the cover was of use. And as a non-advised sale, it was for Mrs and Mr J to decide 
about what they wanted to do. 
PBS had to provide information that was clear  so Mrs and Mr J could make an informed 
choice about whether  they wanted to buy this policy. I obviously cant  say that PBS told 
them everything it should have. But the MPPI  form Ive mentioned  above  outlined the cost 
of the cover  and what the benefits were.  Mr J must have known about this because  he set 
up a direct debit to have  to monthly  premiums transferred.
In summary,  I think the evidence shows Mrs and Mr J chose this cover and so I dont think  it 
was mis-sold.
Finally, I also thought carefully about  any commission  Mrs and Mr J may have paid on their 
policy and whether PBS treated them unfairly.  PBS has told us that the commission was less 
than half of what Mrs and Mr J paid for each premium. Ive looked in detail at how PBS 
worked this out and based on what Ive seen it looks  like its right.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mrs and Mr J back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint. And I dont direct  
Principality Building  Society to do anything to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6148206