K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way St Andrews Insurance Plc (SA) has handled an 
accidental damage  claim  they made on their home insurance policy.
background
In 2014, Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home insurance policy  after they discovered 
damage caused by an external drain. SAs contractors completed  internal and external 
repairs, including taking  out and refitting the existing kitchen while  sub-floor repairs were 
completed.
Subsequently, in August  2018, Mr and Mrs B got in touch with SA again, because  theyd 
noticed further damage in the same  places as the last repair.  SA appointed the same 
contractors itd used  before,  who Ill refer to as U and H. SA also appointed one of its 
Personal Claims Consultants (PCC) to oversee the claim.
Mr and Mrs B complained about the way SA was handling their claim. U had referred to 
evidence from 2014 that was no longer available and there  were  issues with the PCC  
keeping Mr and Mrs B updated about what was going on. It also wasnt clear for some  time 
whether SA planned to treat the claim as a new claim or reopen the 2014 claim.  Mr and Mrs 
B added that the PCC had been  rude to them, which had caused  them  additional upset.  
SA acknowledged,  in February 2019, that it had made mistakes  in the way it handled the 
claim. It accepted thered been avoidable delays. It also confirmed that it would treat the new 
claim as a reopen of the 2014  claim. It paid Mr and Mrs B £600 compensation for the trouble 
and upset its handling of the claim had caused them up until that point.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with the settlement SA had offered them.  They said theyd had 
to replace their decking because there was water underneath it, which had rotted  it. H had 
carried out a patch repair over the areas  on their driveway where itd fixed  the drains,  but Mr 
and Mrs B felt the drive  needed to be replaced. They were also unhappy that SA intended to 
re-use their existing kitchen carcasses  again  after completing the floor repairs.  They asked  
us to look into their complaint.
While our investigator was looking into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint; Mr and Mrs B raised some 
further issues. There were delays in the repair works  beginning and they werent completed 
until the end of May 2019. When Mr and Mrs B returned home following the works being 
carried out, they found that H hadnt cleaned their home. There  was also damage to the 
render around  their drain after the repairs had been done. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy 
that their kitchen hadnt been replaced,  as they said there was clear  mould  damage  to it.
SA looked into Mr and Mrs Bs further concerns.  It agreed that thered been  unnecessary  
further delays  in H carrying out the work and that the state  Mr and Mrs Bs home  had been 
left in was unacceptable.  It also agreed  that U had damaged the rendering  when it carried 
out the drain repairs and its agreed to pay a cash settlement towards  the cost of putting it 
right. It paid Mr and Mrs B a further £400 compensation for the trouble and upset theyd 
suffered.
But SA didnt agree  that the kitchen  carcasses ought to be replaced. It said H had cleaned 
and sanitised  the carcasses  before they were replaced. It said it would consider any 
evidence Mr and Mrs B could provide that the carcasses had been damaged by the two 
Ref: DRN63593972leaks. But it said the PCC on the 2014 claim thought the mould damage noted  in photos of 
the units was down to the way the property had been built and that the water under the 
property was normal ground water filling the void space. SA thought this was the likely  
ongoing cause  of the damp damage  to the carcasses.
Ultimately, our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be partly upheld. He felt 
that the compensation SA had paid Mr and Mrs B up until February 2019 had been fair and 
reasonable to recognise its mistakes. But he thought  it should pay them  another £600 
compensation for the further  distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B had been  caused 
since that point.  He didnt think there was any evidence that Mr and Mrs Bs decking had 
been damaged  by the leaking drains.  He thought the patch repair to the drive had been 
enough to put things  right and that if the driveway was replaced, it would represent 
betterment of Mr and Mrs Bs position. And he didnt agree that the carcasses should be 
replaced. He thought  that based on the available evidence, that the main cause of the 
carcass damage was likely to have been  ongoing  damp.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. In summary,  they didnt think  it was fair for SA to rely on evidence 
from 2014. They thought SA shouldve  obtained new evidence in 2018.  They  told us that the 
2019 repair works had rectified the drain issue, but that they havent rectified the damage  
and smells to the cupboards. A blocked drain  hadnt been fixed  in 2014  it has now been 
repaired and much of the water running underneath the house had stopped since  the 2018 
repairs. They said the drains fall the opposite way to the house  leaks flow away  from the 
direction of the drain. They asked if they would always have issues with damp. The damage 
to carcasses had only happened because  of the failure of SA to carry out proper repairs in 
2014. Theyd acted  on the advice of the 2014  PCC and taken some  mitigation measures, 
which had helped to eradicate the problems with standing water and damp.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. SA has agreed that we can consider the 
issues that have  been raised in both complaints its dealt with in this single decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint  is for SA to pay 
Mr and Mrs B an additional £600 compensation, less the £400 its already paid. Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint, Ive carefully considered everything both parties have  said and sent us. In making 
my decision  though, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. Ill consider each 
of these issues in turn.
Its important though that I explain  what the policy says about  how SA will settle claims. That 
because it forms the basis of the contract  between Mr and Mrs B and SA. The policy  
explains:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damaged  
(using a suitable  equivalent material wherever possible) but not more than the cost of 
completely rebuilding it in its original form. (Bold is my emphasis).
Ref: DRN63593973This means  that SAs liability under the policy when it settles claims is to only rebuild or 
repair the damage thats been caused by the insured event thats  caused  the claim.  Thats  
because the purpose of insurance is to put a policyholder in the position they were  in 
immediately before the loss or damage  happened. Insurance  isnt designed to put a 
policyholder in a better position  than they were in before the loss or damage occurred.
Id also add that generally,  its for a policyholder to show that an insured event has 
happened, which has caused loss or damage  to something they own.  So its for a 
policyholder to show, on balance, that they have a valid claim on their policy. Often an 
insurer will investigate claims  on a policyholders behalf to consider whether a policyholder 
has suffered a claim thats covered by the policy.
The decking
Mr and Mrs B told us that they had to replace their decking as a result  of the water leak. 
They havent  provided any expert  evidence  though  to show that the decking was damaged 
by the drains leaking either in 2014 or 2018.  I appreciate that they might feel the damage  
theyve told us their decking  suffered was linked  to the leaking drains. But I havent seen 
enough evidence  to show me that the decking was damaged by the leaks  or that it needed  
to be replaced. So Im not directing  SA to pay for the costs  of replacing the decking.
The driveway
Theres no dispute that SA had to dig up part of Mr and Mrs Bs driveway to access and 
repair the leaking drains. Us report to SA showed  that it needed to dig a channel  to carry out 
the repairs, which would be filled with concrete afterwards. The notes  say that Mr and Mrs 
Bs drive was made  of concrete. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have said that two experts have told them that the drain 
needs to be taken up and replaced  and Ive thought about this. But Mr and Mrs B havent 
provided SA or me with copies of the expert opinions theyve obtained which support that the 
whole driveway  was damaged by the leaks, or that it all needed to be replaced. In the 
absence of this evidence, I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs B have shown  its most  likely that 
their whole driveway was damaged by the leaks, or that it needed to be replaced.
It seems  to me that by filling the channel U made  during  the drain repairs  with concrete, it 
was fair for SA to conclude that itd met its liability to repair the part of the driveway that had 
been damaged.
The damaged render
SA accepts that U damaged the render  around  Mr and Mrs Bs drain  when it carried  out the 
repairs. I understand Mr and Mrs B would  like a cash settlement representing the cost of 
getting this repaired. I think given the breakdown in communications  between  Mr and Mrs B 
and SA, it would be reasonable  for SA to pay them a cash settlement  for this amount, which 
SA has agreed to do. Mr and Mrs B will need  to get in touch with SA to arrange such  a 
payment.
Should SA replace the carcasses?
Ref: DRN63593974Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that SA should replace their kitchen carcasses. They  consider  
that repairs to a blocked drain hadnt been  carried out properly in 2014 and so water had 
carried on running under the house.  Theyve provided us with photos of mould  spores within 
the units and of mould damage to the walls behind the walls, prior to the repairs being 
carried out. Theyve also told us that their cupboards smell, despite being  regularly cleaned.
As Ive explained, in order for me to direct SA to replace Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen carcasses, 
Id need to be satisfied its more likely than not that the leaks caused them  to become 
damaged. 
SA feels the mould  spores found  in the carcasses are down to an ongoing damp problem. 
Ive looked carefully  at SAs notes from the previous claim. While I appreciate  Mr and Mrs B 
dont feel these notes  are relevant and shouldnt be considered, I disagree. Thats because 
they show the findings of the first PCC;  detail  the works which were carried out at that point 
and the PCCs opinion on the cause  of damage. Its also clear  that further  investigations 
were carried  out in 2018 to look into the damage. I say that because both U and H provided 
reports about the damage and the likely cause to SA in 2018.
The PCC noted in August 2014  that the drains were  fixed. But he added: water under the 
floor. This is normal natural ground  water due to house being  built on a slope and deep
sub floor to the rear where water will run and collect. Also built in marshy area so natural 
high-water table level. External render  touches  the ground over the floor joist and breaches 
DPC and will be adding  to any problems with damp and decay  to the floor timbers.
Mr and Mrs B installed air bricks  and a pump to try and remove  the ground water. But it 
doesnt seem as if the PCC thought the water under the house  was down to the leaking 
drains. This ties-up with Hs report following its visit to Mr and Mrs Bs home in October 
2018. This said that Mr and Mrs B: have tried to remove natural water  in the void using a 
pump and installing additional void bricks. It also says that: moisture  is constantly  present in 
sand/soil under this area so we have advised  monitoring the area once the drain is repaired.
SA feels its most likely that Mr and Mrs Bs damp proof course  has been breached by the 
natural ground  water. It says this would tally up with the smells Mr and Mrs B say theyve 
noticed when  theres  sometimes  heavy rain and with comments  theyve made about their 
sofas suffering  damp damage  too. SA considers that Mr and Mrs B may need to put in 
further damp proofing measures to protect  against these issues  in the future.
Its also said that it thinks if the leak hadnt been fixed in 2014, Mr and Mrs B wouldve  
experienced issues much sooner than they did. I find this plausible. If damp damage to the 
kitchen had begun and continued following the first leak; Id have expected Mr and Mrs B to 
notice this and get back in touch  with SA to query  this far sooner than they did.
SAs notes relating  to Us work in 2018  say that it felt the damage was highly unlikely to 
have been there at the time of the visit in 2014. And while  I understand how strongly  Mr and 
Mrs B feel about their kitchen, I havent seen enough persuasive evidence to show  me either 
that repairs werent properly done in 2014 or that the carcasses were damaged by the water  
leak.
Neither the PCCs nor Hs records suggest  that either party thought  the carcasses were 
damaged by the leaks, or that they needed  to be replaced. The PCC was satisfied that the 
carcasses could be removed while the floor works  were done and could then be refitted.  This 
doesnt suggest that he thought they were damaged. It mightve been helpful if H had 
Ref: DRN63593975explained that it intended to paint the walls with a protective coating  and had explained the 
carcasses would  be thoroughly sanitised before being put back. But in the absence  of expert 
evidence to show that the carcasses were damaged;  by something the policy  covers  and 
that they shouldnt have  been re-fitted, I think  SA acted  reasonably. 
This means  I think  that on the evidence I have  to hand, it was fair for SA to conclude that 
sanitising and refitting the carcasses was enough to put the kitchen back  to its pre-loss 
position.
Its open to Mr and Mrs B to obtain  expert evidence in support of this issue  and provide it to 
SA for it consider if they choose to do so. But based  on all Ive seen, I dont  think SA needs  
to pay for Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen  carcasses to be replaced.
Compensation for trouble  and upset
SA accepts that it has offered Mr and Mrs B poor service throughout the life of this claim. 
When it sent its first final response letter in February  2019,  it paid Mr and Mrs B 
compensation of £600 for the delays in handling  the claim  up until that point and for the fact 
it hadnt been able to provide them with information U had led them to believe would be 
available. In my view, this was a reasonable award to recognise its failings in the way itd 
handled the claim.
And SA acknowledges that it continued  to provide poor service after this point. There was a 
further unavoidable delay in the repair works  beginning  they ultimately werent  completed 
until May 2019, over three months  after SA had first apologised for the initial delays in 
progressing the claim.  SA accepts that when  Mr and Mrs B returned home from their 
alternative accommodation following the repairs; H had left their home untidy and hadnt  
cleaned it. This undoubtedly caused them additional  distress and inconvenience at an 
already stressful  time.  Its clear from Mr and Mrs Bs correspondence  with us how strongly 
they feel about the way their claim has been  handled and that it has had a real impact  on 
them.
So while SA has paid Mr and Mrs B a further  £400  compensation for these further  mistakes,  
I agree  with the investigator that a fairer award  to recognise the trouble Mr and Mrs B have 
suffered is an additional  £600,  on top of the £600 it paid in February  2019  a total award of 
£1200. As SA has already  paid them £600  of this amount in February  2019  and a further 
£400 in January 2021, Im telling  SA to now pay Mr and Mrs B a further £200 compensation 
to recognise the impact  its handling  of the claim had on them  between  February 2019 and 
the completion of the works.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part.
I direct  St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B total compensation of £600.  It should 
deduct the £400 it paid in January 2021 from this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Lisa Barham
Ref: DRN63593976ombudsman
Ref: DRN6359397