K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent two guarantor loans to her. She says 
the loans were unaffordable and caused  her to lose out financially by paying for additional 
interest and charges.
background 
Miss N took out two guarantor loans with UK Credit. These can be summarised  below:
Loan Number Date Amount Term Monthly 
Repayment
Loan  one 1 September 
2013£2,000 24 Months £162.03
Loan  two 23 August  2016 £5,000 48 Months £224.81
Miss N says both loans were irresponsibly lent and unaffordable to her. She says UK Credit  
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks  on either loan. Had it done so, she 
says, it wouldve realised  the financial difficulties she was in and wouldnt have lent to her.
I considered Miss Ns complaint and issued a provisional decision on 16 March 2020.  In my 
provisional decision I made the below findings, and asked both Miss N and UK Credit  to 
respond with any further points. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently 
minded to uphold  all of Miss Ns complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  
lending on our website.  And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ns 
complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Miss N. The relevant rules dont set out 
which specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. 
But relevant  checks  could include things such as a customers income  (over  the full 
term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses. These checks  should also be 
reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit being provided including  the 
total amount of credit, amount of repayments  and total length of the term. 
Having carefully considered all of the information provided, Im currently minded to 
say both loans  did not have reasonable and proportionate checks conducted on 
them. Ill deal with each  in turn.
Loan one
Miss N was approved  for loan one in September 2013. The total amount was £2,000  
spread over 24 repayments of £162.03.  The loan was settled in 2015.  
Ref: DRN62695852Miss N says she was in financial difficulties at the time, including  being in a debt 
management plan.
UK Credit completed a credit file search  and completed income  and expenditure 
checks. It also looked at a recent  bank statement of Miss Ns before it decided  to 
lend. It says these checks  were relevant and proportionate and therefore the decision 
to lend was fair.UK Credit  says these checked showed Miss Ns debt was 
manageable, and Miss N was in a position to make the necessary repayments with 
her remaining disposable income. It says the reference to the debt management plan 
wasnt obvious from the bank statements; and it asked Miss N to confirm  if she was 
in a debt management plan; to which she said no.
Having reviewed this information I disagree  that relevant  and proportionate checks 
were completed. I say this because the bank statements which  were supplied  to UK 
Credit show a direct debit to a debt management company. With this in mind, I would 
expect UK Credit to ask further questions to get a better understanding  of Miss Ns 
financial circumstances. Had it done  so it wouldve seen a more  accurate view of 
Miss Ns circumstances  including the higher level of debt she was in.
I think had it done  so, UK Credit wouldve realised by approving  the loan, it was 
increasing Miss Ns overall indebtedness and therefore made it unaffordable. 
UK Credit says it asked  Miss N whether she was in a debt management plan, and 
she said she wasnt. And because of this, it is not fair for it to have conducted further 
checks (above those which it already had).  I disagree. Whilst it may have asked 
Miss N a direct question,  it still had information  at its disposal which  showed  there  
could be further  issues. There was an obligation at the time for UK Credit  to make  
sure it completed reasonable and proportionate  checks; and in this instance that 
included, in my opinion, checking  the direct debits  on       Miss Ns statement as it 
asked for the statements  and had them available. And as Ive said above, had it done 
so, it wouldve better  understood Miss Ns financial situation before deciding  to lend. 
Loan two
Miss N was approved  for loan two in August 2016. The total amount was £5,000  
spread over 48 repayments of £22.81.
Similar to loan one, Miss N says at the time she applied  for the loan she was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
UK Credit again completed credit checks; and asked for income and expenditure 
details. However, unlike the first check, it did not ask for bank  statements  to verify the 
income. It says it didnt need to as the income  was verified  electronically.
Having looked  at the checks which were  carried out, Im not satisfied they were 
reasonable or proportionate either. In this instance, Miss N was significantly 
increasing her borrowing  (double of her previous loan) and for a much longer period 
of time. In those circumstances  I wouldve expected  UK Credit to do detailed checks  
before deciding to lend to Miss N. That wouldve included asking for her bank 
statements.
Ref: DRN62695853Had it done so, UK Credit  wouldve  had a better understanding of Miss Ns financial 
situation. It wouldve  seen  she wasnt managing  her finances well, including taking 
out short term loans  to supplement her income. It wouldve also seen that her total 
level of debt had increased; and that this loan was unaffordable to her.
Miss N responded  to the provisional decision and accepted my findings. UK Credit 
responded saying it had no further comments to make.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party have  provided any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my findings which I set out above.
That is to say based on the information which has been provided  Im satisfied UK Credit  
provided Miss N loans which were unaffordable  to her. I say this because UK Credit  did not 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks, and had it done so it reasonably ought to 
have realised Miss N was not in a position  to meet these repayments  in a sustainable way.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ns complaint.
I require UK Credit Limited to do the following:
Loan one:
Refund all interest  and charges Miss N paid on loan one;
pay Miss N 8% simple interest  on the refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Ns credit file in relation to loan one.
Loan two:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Ns account  from when it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Miss N has made as a reduction of the principle amount;
If this results in Miss N having paid more than what she was initially lent then any 
extra should  be treated as an overpayment  and refunded to Miss N plus 8% simple  
interest on this amount  from date of payment to date of settlement;
If an outstanding  balance remains on Miss Ns account after all adjustments  have 
been made then UK Credit Limited needs  to come to suitable  repayment plan with 
Miss N to pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Ns credit file in relation to loan two.
Ref: DRN62695854Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.  
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Miss N a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
.
Ref: DRN6269585