K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him Additions and 
Additions Active packaged bank accounts.  He says that they were upgraded without his 
knowledge and says that he didnt  need  the benefits  provided  by the accounts. 
background
Mr Rs account history  is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account 
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account  in November 2000
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Active account in February 2009
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the accounts had been  mis-
sold. But she did think that Mr R should receive a refund  of the Additions  Active  account  
fees, plus 8% simple interest,  from April 2009, because Mr R had asked for his account  to be 
downgraded and Barclays didnt downgrade it.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicator and asked  for the complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicator  that I dont think the accounts were  mis-sold, 
but I do think Barclays shouldve downgraded  the Additions Active  account  in April 2009 
when Mr R asked for his account to be downgraded. I will explain why.
Additions account
Mr R says that his account  was upgraded without his knowledge. Barclays has little 
information available from November 2000, when the account  was first upgraded to an 
Additions account. However as this took place over 18 years  ago, I dont  think this is 
particularly surprising or unreasonable. 
Mr R held a fee-free account with Barclays for many years, so I think  it wouldve been clear 
to Mr R that fee-free accounts were  available and that he didnt have to have a fee-paying 
packaged account if he didnt want one. 
At the time,  the account cost £6 per month and in return  provided a guaranteed  overdraft 
facility (although its not clear how much that wouldve been) with the first £100 of the 
overdraft being  interest  free. It also provided other  benefits such  as extended warranty,  
purchase protection, cardholder protection and accidental death cover. 
Looking at the statements, it looks as though Mr R started to use the overdraft on the 
account from around the time that the account was upgraded. At the time,  had Mr R kept the 
account as a fee-free account, he wouldve been charged £5 per month, plus interest, to use 
his overdraft facility.  And I can see that in September 2000 i.e. before the sale of the 
Ref: DRN68151792Additions account, Mr R was charged  an unauthorised overdraft charge, so it looks  as 
though having such an overdraft benefit mightve been important to Mr R at the time.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr R agreed to upgrade to the 
Additions account for the overdraft benefit  rather than, as he says, it was just added to his 
account without  his knowledge.  I say this particularly as it took place so long ago, I think its 
likely that Mr R agreed to it and simply cant recall doing so, which I think would be entirely 
understandable in the circumstances. 
As well as getting Mr Rs consent to agree  to the account, Barclays also had to give him the 
important information  about the account.  Due to the lack of information available, I cant say 
that Barclays gave  Mr R everything it shouldve. But Ive not seen anything about  his 
circumstances at the time that makes  me think he wouldve been  put off from agreeing  to the 
Additions account had he been given more information about it.
I appreciate that various account  benefits  have been  added,  changed or removed since Mr R 
took out the Additions account.  However,  not needing or wanting benefits  that were  later 
added to the account doesnt mean that Barclays was wrong to have sold it to him in the first 
place.
Mr R has said that he feels taken advantage of due to his level of English. But, it wouldve 
been up to Mr R to have sought  assistance  or clarification  if he didnt understand what he 
was agreeing to. And even if Mr R did not understand everything about the account, I think 
he would  have known  he did not have to take out the account  and roughly what the main 
benefits of the account were, as I cant see why he would have agreed to it otherwise.
As such,  I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mr R. Because  of this I 
dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclays to refund him the account fees as he has 
asked it to do.
Additions Active account
Mr R has again said that the upgrade took place on his account without his knowledge. But 
Barclays has provided an acknowledgement  form, which has been  signed by Mr R. This 
explained that Mr Rs account was changing  to an Additions Active  account, which would 
cost £14 per month.  
Therefore given this document, Im satisfied that Mr R did agree to upgrade  his account and 
that it wasnt just added to his account, as he says it was.
Based on what Mr R and Barclays have said and provided, I dont think  the account was sold 
on an advised basis. This means  that it didnt have  to check if it was right for Mr R. But it did 
have to give him all of the important information  about the account  and benefits, so that he 
could make an informed  choice. 
Barclays has provided a sales checklist that looks to have been completed  during the sale of 
the Additions Active account. The check list has been ticked  and also includes Mr Rs age at 
the time,  which has been written in next to the section explaining  the travel  insurance, which  
has an age limit of 70 on it.
So overall, I think that the document  reflects what was likely to have been said during the 
sale of the account.  And looking at it, I think that much  of the important  account  information 
Ref: DRN68151793was drawn to Mr Rs attention at the time. For example, I think that the age limit and the 
need to declare any pre-existing  medical condition under  the travel  insurance were, in all 
likelihood, made  clear to Mr R. It also looks as though  the need to register mobile phones, if 
he wanted to rely on that benefit, was also made  clear to Mr R.
As I dont know what exactly was discussed, I accept its possible that Barclays may not 
have given Mr R all of the information it shouldve. But again Ive not seen anything  about 
Mr Rs circumstances that makes  me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
Additions Active account had he been  given more information about  it. Because of this, I 
dont think that the Additions Active account was mis-sold.  Therefore, I dont think  a refund of 
account fees from February  2009 is warranted.
However, Mr R has provided a letter from Barclays dated 20 April 2009.  The letter discusses 
loan terms and conditions, but also acknowledges that Mr R has asked to cancel his 
Additions Active account and says that his request will be passed on to the Personal 
Banking team to deal with. Despite this, I cant see that his request was carried  out by 
Barclays. In light of this, I think that Barclays should put Mr R back  into the position  he 
wouldve been in, had his downgrade request been  carried out, as the letter  promised it 
would. 
what Barclays needs to do to put matters  right
To put matters right, Barclays  needs  to:
Refund the Additions Active account fees Mr R paid from April 2009;  and
Add simple interest on those fees at a rate of 8% per year, from the date they were 
paid, to the date of settlement
If Mr R saved money since  April 2009 because of a better rate on his overdraft, loan 
or savings account by having the Additions Active  packaged  account  and Barclays  
can show exactly how much Mr R saved, it may deduct these savings from the 
amount it pays him. Barclays  must explain clearly and simply to Mr R how it has 
worked out any deductions.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to do what I have said above  to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6815179