K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Canada  Square Operations Limited, (trading as Egg), mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr W says that Egg didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.  However  I think 
that it probably did, and that Mr W chose  to take it out. I say this because Ive seen  Eggs 
record showing that Mr W took out his credit  card over the Internet. And Ive also been 
sent a copy of the screen that Egg says he would  have  seen  when doing  so, which  
asked whether he wanted to take out PPI or not. This has two equally prominent options 
 one to take out the PPI and the other to decline it. Egg has told me that Mr W would 
not have been able to carry on to the next screen of his credit card application  without 
choosing one of these options. It has also shown  me its records  saying that Mr W chose 
to take out the policy. I think it is likely that Eggs records are correct.
Mr W has told us that Egg recommended the PPI to him. But Mr W made his credit card 
application over the Internet. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr W had any 
other contact with Egg, whether  over the phone  or otherwise. So I cant see that it gave 
him any advice whether  or not to take out the insurance. So Ive concluded that Egg 
didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W personally. This means that Egg didnt have to check  
if the policy was suitable for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information 
he needed so that he could decide if it was right for him; 
The screen to which  Ive referred earlier  explained that the PPI covered accident,  
sickness and unemployment. And that the cost was 59p a month for each £100 of the 
credit card outstanding  balance.  Its possible  the other information Egg gave Mr W about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at 
the time it seems  that Mr W was eligible for the policy. Its also unlikely that he would 
have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such as 
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition. 
Ref: DRN64653642Mr W has told us that he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer. He has also said 
that he had other insurances in place. But in the absence of any evidence  of the terms of 
these policies and taking into account  what I know about  his overall circumstances at the 
time, on balance, I think that the policy could have  been  of use to Mr W. I say this 
because, following  a successful claim, it would have paid out 10% of his balance for up 
to 12 months. And these payments would have been in addition to any employment 
benefits or other insurance payments he may have been entitled  to, leaving these latter  
sums available  to help Mr W meet his other expenses while he wasnt  working.  It also 
looks like the PPI, the cost of which was at the lower end of those for similar polices in 
the market at the time, was affordable for him when  he took it out. So overall I dont think 
getting better information about  the PPI would have  put off Mr W taking out the cover. 
My above  conclusions mean that the PPI wasnt mis-sold and so Egg doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
I note that Egg has already offered to repay some of Mr Ws PPI premiums,  (and in fact it 
has told us that it sent him a cheque for this several months ago.)  I think that this is a fair 
way, from Mr Ws point of view, to resolve  this complaint. So theres nothing else I require 
Egg to do. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6465364