K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Ms A complain  about the fees Bank  of Scotland plc applied to their mortgage. The 
bank have refunded some  fees they charged  when Mr R and Ms A fell into arrears, but they 
dont think Bank of Scotland have done enough to compensate them  for the additional costs, 
distress and inconvenience caused by the fees being added to the mortgage.
background
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr R and Ms A to tell them they were refunding the arrears  fees 
theyd applied to their mortgage  from January 2009  onwards. They  also refunded  the 
associated interest and 8% interest on top of this. The refund came to a total of £1,517.48. 
These letters said that Mr R and Ms A could also claim for additional  costs,  distress or 
inconvenience suffered as a result of the arrears fees.
Mr R contacted Bank of Scotland to discuss the additional compensation he felt he and Ms A 
were due. The bank  offered  to pay them £100  for the distress  and inconvenience caused by 
the application of the fees. Mr R and Ms A werent  happy about this so made a complaint.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold their complaint so Mr R and Ms A asked our service  to look 
into things. They said they felt the compensation should be higher because, in summary:
They had to sell their house, as they couldnt afford their mortgage payments. If it 
wasnt for the arrears  fees they could have made the payments.
The arrears fees resulted in charges from Mr Rs bank when direct debits failed.
Mr R had to make  a number of phone  calls to Bank of Scotland about  the arrears,  
and he had to take time off work to visit the branch.
The arrears fees caused them a lot of distress.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but explained that, in his view, the £100 offered by 
Bank of Scotland was enough  to compensate Mr R and Ms A for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the arrears fees.
Mr R and Ms A disagreed, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland refunded the arrears  fees charged on Mr R and Ms As mortgage account  
from January 2009 onwards, in line with the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  (FCA) redress 
scheme. These fees have already been  refunded, with interest, and so in this complaint Im 
only considering  whether  Bank of Scotland  has considered the impact of the fees on Mr R 
and Ms A fairly.
In the letters  Bank of Scotland sent to Mr R and Ms A, they said if you think  you have  
incurred any additional  costs, or suffered any distress or inconvenience as a result of having 
these fees charged, you could be entitled  to a further payment. For example, this may 
include a charge made by your current account  provider  for non-payment of a direct  debit,  or 
where you had to call us multiple  times  to discuss these fees being  applied to your account.
Ref: DRN63944792Mr R and Ms A are claiming for consequential loss, as well as distress  and inconvenience 
caused as a result of Bank of Scotland applying the fees to their mortgage. In terms of 
consequential loss, theyve said that, as a result of the fees, they couldnt  meet  their 
mortgage payments  and so had to sell their house.  Im not persuaded this is the case. 
Mr R and Ms A were  already in arrears  on the mortgage before any fees were  charged. 
Bank of Scotland have sent us their contact  notes for the mortgage  account, and these show  
that discussions took place between Mr R, Ms A and the bank about the fact that payments 
were becoming difficult due to the days wages were being paid, and a reduced income. So I 
consider there were  a variety of reasons  why Mr R and Ms A found themselves in arrears on 
the mortgage, not just because of the arrears fees themselves. 
I appreciate the fees may have contributed to their overall difficult situation, but Im not 
satisfied Mr R and Ms A have shown  that but for the fees they would have been able to 
come out of arrears and not have to sell their house.  Im also satisfied Mr R and Ms As 
financial situation is more  likely to have been  the reason that direct debit payments failed, 
although they havent provided anything to show that they did in fact fail, or that they 
incurred additional  charges because  of this.
Mr R said he had to make a number of phone calls to Bank  of Scotland about  the arrears  on 
the mortgage, and make several visits to branch. From looking at the contact notes for the 
mortgage account, I can see that several conversations did take place. But these notes 
show that the conversations were about arrangements  to make payments,  rather than the 
arrears fees themselves. I wouldnt expect Bank  of Scotland to refund the costs of these 
calls as Im satisfied they were necessary in order  to ensure payments were made to the 
mortgage, and to ensure Bank  of Scotland were kept up to date with Mr R and Ms As 
financial position. 
The notes also show that Mr R and Ms A visited the branch to make  their payments to the 
mortgage, and theyve not provided any information or evidence to suggest this wasnt  the 
case. So Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland need  to compensate them  for the time spent 
during these visits, and any time that had to be taken off work as Mr R has suggested.
I appreciate Mr R and Ms A would have found it stressful to be in arrears on their mortgage. 
They would have  been in financial difficulty at the time, which  is never easy. But this would 
have been a stressful time whether or not Bank of Scotland charged them fees on the 
mortgage. What I have to decide is whether £100  is enough compensation for the extra 
stress of the fees being added, on top of the stress they would have felt anyway. I think it is.
So whilst I dont doubt that Mr R and Ms A have been through a difficult  time trying to 
maintain their mortgage account, I dont consider this was because of the arrears fees Bank 
of Scotland charged. As a result, I consider Bank of Scotlands offer of £100 compensation is 
fair, and Ill leave it to Mr R and Ms A to contact Bank of Scotland  directly to accept this 
should they wish to.
my final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN63944793Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6394479