K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his car insurance with Tesco 
Underwriting Limited (Tesco).  
background 
Mr As car insurance policy was transferred to Tesco Underwriting Limited in 2010.  The first 
premium charged in 2011 was £1,153.66 for the year. For 2016 the renewal quote was 
£2,057.15. Mr A says he didnt realise  how much the premium had increased and only found 
out when his account went overdrawn. Mr A cancelled his policy  in December  2016  and 
received a refund of £417.44.  
Mr A thinks  Tesco has taken advantage of him by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy 
every year. He says he was charged  too much and he should be compensated for the extra  
he has paid over the years. 
Tesco offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance, in the form of a goodwill payment 
of £1,400.91. Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr A disagreed and didnt  think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Tesco has treated Mr A fairly throughout  the period he held his 
insurance policy. 
If I find that Tesco hasnt  treated  Mr A fairly, I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair and in this case whether I think Tescos  offer is fair.
In 2011, Mr As policy cost £1,153.66 for the year. I can see that Mr As premium  continued 
to increase each  year (other than 2013) and he didnt engage with Tesco  about his premium 
until 2016 when  he says his account became  overdrawn  and his bank  manager  suggested 
looking into it in more  detail. His policy was cancelled  later in 2016.
Mr A says he assumed  he was paying competitively priced premiums for his car insurance. 
He says he was a loyal customer and trusted  Tesco to treat him fairly. Hes also says that 
because of his disability, its difficult for him to shop  around for other  quotes.  
If Tesco should have  realised Mr A wasnt the type of person who shopped around for 
cheaper insurance regularly, and it increased  the price  just because he didnt engage at 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
Because of Mr As personal circumstances,  in particular his disability, Tesco has made an 
offer of goodwill to refund  some  of the costs  of the insurance premiums.
Ref: DRN63340172Mr A says he was taken advantage of and has been left struggling  with debt because of 
Tesco, so is owed more  than this in compensation. Ive thought about this, but having 
considered Tescos offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Mr A hasnt  lost out if Tesco  did 
increase the price just because he didnt engage at each renewal.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Tesco Underwriting Limiteds offer is fair, and I dont think  it 
needs to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6334017