K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Global Kapital Group Ltd (trading as myKredit) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr E was given seven loans by myKredit between May 2017 and June 2018. Most  of the 
loans were scheduled to be repaid in two or three monthly instalments. Mr E appears to 
have faced some problems repaying his final loan, but all his loans have now been fully 
repaid. A summary of Mr Es borrowing from myKredit is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 30/05/2017 15/09/2017 £ 200
2 04/11/2017 15/11/2017 £ 100
3 27/11/2017 03/01/2018 £ 200
4 06/01/2018 15/03/2018 £ 200
5 17/03/2018 15/05/2018 £ 200
6 23/05/2018 17/06/2018 £ 200
7 25/06/2018 23/02/2019 £ 200
Mr Es complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  it had been  
reasonable for myKredit to give any of the loans to Mr E. So she asked myKredit to pay Mr E 
some compensation.
MyKredit didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr E accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MyKredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that myKredit  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN66692842the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that myKredit was required to establish 
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
MyKredit has told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr E. It says that it asked him 
for details  of his income, and his normal monthly expenditure. MyKredit says that it 
performed some analysis  on the transactions that were shown on Mr Es bank statements. 
And myKredit says it checked  Mr Es credit file. I havent seen the results of the credit  
checks that were done, but Im not aware of any adverse information on Mr Es credit  file that 
I think should have  caused additional  concerns  to the lender.
Since myKredit had access to the full transaction history on Mr Es bank statements it was in 
an excellent position to decide  whether  it should lend to Mr E. I too have looked at the 
information myKredit would have seen on those  statements. And having  done so I dont think 
any of the loans should have been agreed.
It is clear from Mr Es bank statements in the period  leading up to his first loan that he was 
spending significant amounts each month on gambling transactions. His monthly gambling 
expenditure was often  several times his normal income. And Mr E was funding that gambling 
spending by borrowing from a number of other short term lenders. At the time of his first loan 
he had around  seven other loans outstanding.  So I think it should  have  been  clear to 
myKredit that Mr E was having significant problems  managing his money  and that it was 
unlikely he would be able to repay  any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN66692843And over the whole time that Mr E was borrowing from myKredit his situation didnt improve. 
His bank statements show that he continued  to gamble heavily. And they show  that he 
funded that expenditure  by continuing  to borrow from several short term lenders. So I dont 
think it was reasonable  for myKredit to give any of the loans to Mr E.
Looking at the overall pattern of myKredits lending history with Mr E I think  by loan 4 the 
lender should  also reasonably have seen from that history that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so myKredit should  have realised that it shouldnt  
provide further  loans  for that reason too.
I say this because:
By the time Mr E asked for loan 4 hed been  borrowing  from myKredit  for a lengthy  
period and he wasnt making  any inroads  to the amount  he owed the lender. By then 
Mr E had paid a considerable amount of interest to myKredit  to effectively service a 
debt over an extended period.
From  loan 4 onwards  Mr E was provided  with a new loan very shortly after settling a 
previous one. So myKredit ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr E 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving 
in his finances and that Mr Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr E lost out because myKredit continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Es 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Es complaint about  all the loans he was given by myKredit. MyKredit 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think myKredit should have agreed to give Mr E any of the loans. So for each of the 
loans myKredit should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr E on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation to loans 1 to 3.
The number of loans  taken from loan 4 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  4 to 7 should be removed from Mr Es credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires myKredit  to take off tax from this interest. MyKredit must  
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN66692844my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct  Global Kapital Group  Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6669284