K821x#15Since I issued my provisional  decision the firm has changed its name to Quilter  Financial 
Services Ltd.  As I referred to the firm as Intrinsic in the provisional decision I have continued 
to do so in this decision. 
complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about advice that he says he received to switch  two personal pension  
into a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  with another provider. The transfer  was 
recommended to enable investments in two unregulated investments offered by SGG group 
and Global Forestry (Belem Sky).  Mr D says this advice  was given by the ER Network an 
appointed representative (AR) of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd. Mr D considers the advice 
was unsuitable.
background
Mr D met with the adviser who was an employee  of The ER Network  Ltd, an AR of Intrinsic.   
The adviser also had an unregulated business,  Vita Investment Planning.
Whether advice was provided is in dispute but, after meeting the adviser a SIPP application  
was completed and Mr Ds two personal  pensions were switched into the SIPP.   A short time 
later the above  investments were  made.   
The SGG investments  went  into administration  in early 2012, following allegations of fraud. 
This prompted Mr D to complain about  the suitability  of the advice he has said he received.
Intrinsic said that it was not responsible  for the advice as it was not given  by its AR but by 
the unregulated  firm  Vita Investment Planning.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 June  2019.   In this I said the 
following:
I will first consider whether this is a complaint that we can look at.  In doing  so I have 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments.     
I will consider  our jurisdiction in three steps:
What is the complaint?
What if any regulated activities is Mr D complaining about?
Is Intrinsic  responsible?
In a letter of complaint to this service of 4 October 2013 Mr Ds solicitor set out his complaint 
in the following terms:  
The firm provided regulated advice  in relation to the transfer of a pension to a SIPP
The only reason for the creation of the SIPP was to facilitate investment into unregulated 
products offered by the Sustainable Growth  Group.
The client  was introduced  to the firm in full knowledge that the sole purpose of the transfer 
was to invest into SGG.
the advising firm should have dealt  with the SGG investment as part of the SIPP  transfer.
Ref: DRN60702912The response of the firm is to state  that the pension transfer advice was undertaken in 
isolation.  It is clear that this cannot be the case.
The complaint that has been made  is that Mr D was advised to switch  his personal pension  
to a SIPP.  The purpose of the switch was to enable the investment in the SGG product to 
be made.  The solicitors have not explicitly  said that the adviser also recommended  the SGG 
investment.
At the time the original  complaint was made  there were no issues with the Global Forestry 
investment but it has since failed.   However,  I dont it makes  a difference  whether  the 
complaint includes  this investment or not.  I will explain  why later.   
Both the original personal pensions and the SIPP are specified  investments as per article  82 
of the Regulated Activities  Order 2001 (RAO).   Having  considered  the SGG and Global 
Forestry investments in my view they would  be considered to be unregulated collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS).  A  collective  investment scheme  is a specified investment as 
per article  81 of the RAO.  So if Mr D had been advised to switch  his personal pension  to the 
SIPP this would be regulated investment advice (as per article  53 of the RAO).  If Mr D had 
also been advised to make the SGG and Global Forestry investment this would also be 
regulated investment advice.
However, it has been made clear by the FCA that when recommending  a SIPP consideration 
must be given, if known, to the investments to be held within the SIPP.   If the underlying 
investments are unsuitable then so will be the SIPP.  I consider that the purpose of the 
pension switch advice  was to enable the investment in the SGG and Global Forestry 
products  so the adviser knew what the investments to be held in the SIPP were.  
Therefore, even if advice  had not been  given about the SGG/Global Forestry products it is 
possible to find that the pension switch  advice was unsuitable based  on the intended 
investments to be held in the SIPP.  This argument also means that whether the SGG and 
Global Forestry investments were in fact CIS isnt relevant to jurisdiction.  
It also seems  likely that the regulated activity of arranging deals in investments  (in respect  of 
the pension switch)  took place.    
Whether advice was given and exactly what happened to bring about the pension  switch and 
the later investments and which parties  were  involved is disputed.   Before establishing what, 
if any, responsibility Intrinsic has for the actions of its AR I will first make various findings 
about what actually  happened.  
was advice  given?
It is not in dispute  that a number of meetings  were  held between Mr D and the adviser  
(putting aside the capacity in which he was acting).  Mr D was thinking about  releasing 
capital from his pensions  to possible fund a business venture.  It is therefore clear that Mr D 
had a meeting  with the adviser to discuss pensions  this would have been in my view 
regulated advice and would have  took place under the auspices of The ER Network.  The 
upshot of these meetings was that Mr D switched  two personal pensions to a SIPP  with 
Berkeley Burke.   Following the pension switch 25% of the SIPP  was withdrawn as tax free 
cash.  At  the same time the investments in the SGG products and Global Forestry were  
made.  Whether the SGG/Global Forestry  investments  were  advised by the AR or Vita 
Investment Planning,  it is clear that the adviser knew  that these investments were  going to 
be made when the pension  switch  was completed.  
Ref: DRN60702913The advisers version of events is as follows:
 
[Mr D] enquired about using his pension  fund to develop the land and build the unit and 
possible purchasing  other  commercial  properties.  I explained the differences between a 
personal pension  and a Self Invested  Personal Pension Plan and that his current pension  
plans could not be used as a vehicle to do this but a SIPP  may be an answer.   [Mr D] was 
very keen  to explore this avenue and instructed  me to obtain details of his pension plans.  
We arranged a further meeting to take place on 09/05/2011.
On the 9/5/2011 both [Mr D and his partner Ms W] were present I explained that an option  
was to increase  contributions and look at other  funds available from her current  provider.I 
then explained  there were  other  investment options available outwith a personal  pension but 
these were very high risk and non regulated[Mr D] indicated  that he was also interested in 
finding out more about this type of investment.  As  this meeting was regulated I declined to 
provide any information and stated  we would have to have a separate meeting if they 
wanted to discuss  other  investment options.  This  was arranged for.four days later.
The requested meeting took place on 12/5/2011  at which I presented my business card and 
terms of business  for Vita Investment Planning Ltd. I explained that I was about to discuss a 
range of products which were very high risk and non regulated which  meant that if anything 
went wrong that both [Mr D and Ms W] would  not have any protection  from the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme.  I also explained  that I could not provide any advice at all 
in relation to any of these products and could only provide information.  The decision to 
invest would  be theirs and theirs alone.  
Ms W also switched  personal pensions to a SIPP  and made  investment in SGG and Global 
Forestry. 
Mr D was provided with Vita Investment Planning  terms of business and individual  letters  in 
respect of each of the SGG and Global Forestry investments.  The terms of business make  it 
clear that Vita Investment  Planning dealt  with a range of what were considered unregulated 
investments.  It was the advisers understanding that as these were  not regulated that they 
could be arranged by a non regulated entity  Vita Investment Planning.
There is therefore evidence linking the non regulated firm (Vita Investment Planning)  to the 
SGG/Global Forestry  investments.  There is nothing  to link this firm to any advice  in respect 
of the pension switch. 
There is evidence of the ARs involvement  in the pension switch.  The AR dealt with the 
ceding schemes and is listed  on the SIPP application form as the introducer.  It seems  likely 
at the least that the AR carried out the regulated activity of arranging deals in investments.  I 
dont think the advisers  later attempts to change the arranging entity to Vita Investment 
Planning to be valid.  It is my view that the understanding of the parties at the time of the 
arrangement of the switches is the key.  Both the ceding pension schemes and Berkeley 
Burke both thought they were dealing with the ER network.
However, I also consider  it more  likely  than not that the AR advised Mr D to make  the 
pension switch. 
Mr D approached the AR who was his long standing  adviser for advice about his pension 
an in particular how to release capital  from his pensions. After  meeting the AR Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN60702914personal pensions  were switched to a SIPP and capital released from the SIPP.   It is in my 
view unlikely  that an investor who approached his adviser for advice about a specific  
transaction would  then undertake that transaction without having been given advice.  An 
investor who approaches his regulated financial adviser for advice about a specific issue 
would reasonably assume in the absence  of any evidence to the contrary  that this advice 
had been given his regulated adviser.   As there is no evidence  of any involvement  of Vita 
Investment Planning  in this process my conclusion is that this advice was given by the AR.
In terms of our jurisdiction and the outcome of this complaint  I dont think  it is necessary for 
me to decide  whether any advice was given about the SGG/Global Forestry or which entity  
may have  given any advice. 
Is Intrinsic responsible for the SIPP advice given by the AR?
As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G  says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for Positive 
Solutions (for some purposes) was held to be engaging in a recognisably  independent 
business of his own   a property investment scheme.    
Vita Investment  Planning  might be a recognisably independent business in respect of the 
SGG/Global Forestry  advice.  However, there is nothing to connect  this business to the 
pension switch advice.   As set out above, my conclusion is that this advice  was given by the 
AR.  
Ref: DRN60702915what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
As mentioned above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal (Intrinsic) is required to accept responsibly  for that business  
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 makes it clear  that the 
words part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the 
generic business of a prescribed description.  I will first deal with the meaning prescribed 
business and before dealing with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in mid 2011.
At that time the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  
Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
Ref: DRN60702916(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 RAO).  It does not 
mean advising Mr D on a particular investment. 
As I have said, Intrinsic was authorised to carry out the above regulated activities  in this 
case.
What was the prescribed business Intrinsic  accepted responsibility  for in this case?
The s. 39 Agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER Network expressly incorporated the 
compliance manual.  The agreement  itself said:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed  Representative of Intrinsic  for the purpose only of carrying 
on the Business.
Business was defined  as: 
the business  of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set out in this 
Agreement
The Compliance manual was more  helpful on this point.  It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval  are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals  in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated  investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-related  
general insurance
As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, Members can therefore carry  out those activities 
detailed above (dependent  on any restrictions inherent in your contract),  these are referred  to 
as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Intrinsic permitted The ER Network to carry on was arranging  
deals, advising on investments (and mortgages  but that is not relevant here)  and agreeing to 
arrange deals  and advise on investments.   Intrinsic accepted  responsibility  for that business 
as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from time to 
time expressly authorised  under the terms of this Agreement as required  by Section 39 of the 
Act.
Ref: DRN60702917So in this case Intrinsic  did authorise The ER Network to advise on investments, arrange 
deals in investments  and agree to do both.  This was the (relevant) prescribed business 
Intrinsic authorised The ER Network to carry on and agreed to accept responsibility for. 
But as I have said above, Intrinsic says it put limits on the business it accepts responsibly 
for.  In  effect it says it authorises investment advice  but only if certain conditions  are met, 
such as the adviser  passing a relevant exam, or the investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk,  HHJ Waksman said the following  (where  D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge 
said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.  
Then the judge  said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
Ref: DRN60702918failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) 
agreed with the above.  In that case the network  principal  had argued  that it was not 
responsible for advice  to invest in an investment in which  it did not authorise the appointed 
representative to deal.  The judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenets behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as having  such  
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it follows  that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties  only.  Does 
that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way?  The  answer to that question  is no 
because of the words  part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above  really considered this point.  But  it was dealt with 
in the most recent case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC 2834.  In 
that case the judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law,  that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
ARs actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
Ref: DRN60702919139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Grieg in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingrams evidence  was that he knew  that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority.  It also means that sometimes  a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.  And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority.   And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely connected to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.   
my view  about  the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement in this case:
advice restricted to approved  products
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  includes  the following:
2.1 Intrinsics Scope  of Permission
Intrinsic is authorised by the FSA to carry out certain activities.   This is referred  to as Part IV 
permission.  All regulated firms have to obtain a permission, but the scope of their particular  
permission may include one of several regulated activities depending  on the business of the 
firm.  
The regulated activities for which Intrinsic has approval is as follows:
a)Arranging (brining about) deals  in;
b)Making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)Advising on; and
d)Agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)-(c)
in relation to designated  investments
Ref: DRN607029110As appointed  representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry  on those  activities 
detailed above (dependent  upon any restrictions inherent in your contract); these  are referred 
to as the Scope of Permissions.
All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised  regime on 1 June 2005.   As an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels and product 
ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number  of companies  in respect of 
Designated Investment business, commonly  referred to as Multi-tie
2.4 Restricted activities
Intricnsics scope of permission does not allow appointed representatives or advisers to carry 
out certain areas of business.  Below  we detail areas where restrictions apply.
2.4.1 Non-Advised Business
Intrinsic believes that advice is always  necessary,  and our sales processes  have been 
developed bearing this in mind.  Although there is scope within the FSA rules  to operate 
certain non-advised  processes, Intrinsic have chosen not to take advantage of this.
2.4.2 Products requiring  additional authorisation.
As an appointed representative firm or adviser  with Intrinsic there are some restrictions on 
activities relating  to certain products.  Details  of these can be found  in the Licensing  section.
2.4.3 Acting  as Trustee, Power of attorney, or Executor of a Will
You are prohibited from acting for your client as Trustee; Power  of Attorney; or Executor of a 
Will
2.4.4 Dual Authorisation
You are not permitted to have dual authorisation and be directly by the FSA as well as 
through Intrinsic
2.4.5 Dealing with Overseas Clients

8.6 The Sales Process
The advice process is substantially the same for all areas of FCA regulation.  There  are slight 
differences between business areas.  Please refer to guidance  in the Designated Investment, 
Mortgage and Pure Protection and General Insurance Documents for details of the specific 
process requirement for these business areas:
Contacting the client or potential client;
Providing specified information at the outset;
Undertaking  a Know your client  exercise, usually  involving some form of fact find;
Research to recommend  a product which is suited to the clients  needs at that time;
A recommendation (which the client may reject and a subsequent recommendation 
may be made);
Completion of the application form as a sale is made.
8.6.1 Execution only
An execution  only case is one where the client requires no advice as they have already 
decided on the exact contract they require.
Ref: DRN607029111Intrinsic firmly believe that full advice should be given to clients  in all circumstances.  
However, if you do come across a client who matches the above circumstances you should 
seek approval  of Compliance before proceeding with business on that basis.
The above  helps to explain the context  of the s.39 agreement between Intrinsic  and The ER 
Network.  
Some points to note are that Intrinsic has permission to advise on all investments but has 
chosen to offer products  from a limited range.  And the AR is restricted to the product range 
chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsics ARs are however obliged to give advice and may not just sell on an execution  only 
basis.  Advice involves a process that includes getting to know  the clients financial situation  
in order to give suitable advice.  And in turn this means that sometimes  advice involves the 
recommendation to end one investment in order to start another.
This is in effect what has happened in this complaint  the recommendation to end the 
existing personal  pensions and to replace them with a Berkley  Burke  SIPP.  Mr  D switched 
two personal pensions to the Berkley Burke SIPP.  One was an Aegon  pension and one was 
Clerical Medical.  I understand that Aegon was an Intrinsic approved pension plan.   
However, the advice  to surrender the existing personal pensions and switch to the SIPP are 
inextricably linked.  Without the surrender  advice  there could have been no advice to take 
out the SIPP.  Where  multiple pieces of advice  are inextricably linked then they in effect form 
a single piece  of advice.  This was made clear in the case  of Tenet Connect v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin).  If any part of the advice is the 
responsibility of the principal then the whole  of the advice will also be.
So in this case the Intrinsic authorised The ER Network  to give advice on the Aegon 
pension.  This advice was inextricably  linked to the other elements  of the advice  (the Clerical 
Medical advice and the SIPP advice).   As one element of the advice (Aegon) is the 
responsibility of the principal then the whole  of the advice is. 
However, even if the Clerical Medical  and Aegon pensions were  not Intrinsic  authorised  
products I still think we could look at this complaint. 
special process  for replacement business
Intrinsics Compliance Manual includes a special process for replacement business.   Intrinsic 
classifies replacement business as when an adviser  recommends that a customer  replaces 
an existing contract with a new one. The Compliance Manual says it is essential  that for all 
replacement business  the following principles are followed  by the adviser:
Research the exiting policy  and fully understand the features and options available.
Carefully compare the features, options and charges of both policies.
Fully explain and record all negative aspects of the replacement to the client.
Ensure  all the disadvantages  as well as the advantages are fully explained  in the reason for 
recommendation letter  and explain  what factors made you decide that the replacement was in 
the clients  best interests.
The Compliance Manual goes on to say:
Ref: DRN607029112Some customers  may have a pre-conceived  idea about what they want  to do and it is easy  
for the adviser to allow  these  cases to become  customer driven.   However,  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS) takes a dim view of these cases.  Their view is often that unless 
the customer  has been  specifically advised not to do something,  then the advisers input  is 
viewed as being a recommendation.
This means  that you need to be clear  about what the most suitable course of action is.  The 
reason for recommendation needs to be absolutely clear about what  was advised, 
irrespective of whether  the customer intends to follow that advice.
In this case Intrinsic recommended moving Mr Ds existing personal  pensions to a SIPP  with 
Berkley Burke.  Put another way Intrinsic recommended  the replacement  of existing policies 
with another. The replacement  business process should therefore have been used and it is 
not clear that it was.  In my view it is arguable that the standard  required by the Compliance 
Manual was not reached because:
It is not clear the existing policies were researched fully.
The features of the existing policies were not fully and clearly analysed  and recorded 
in a recommendation report in particular the existing investment options were  not 
fully and clearly considered.  
Nor were  the existing  charges  analysed and compared to the charges of the SIPP. 
If the adviser  failed  to meet  the standard required in the Compliance Manual would this 
mean the adviser acted contrary to his authority and that Intrinsic was not responsible for the 
advice?
In my view the answer to this question ought to be self-evident.   Can a principal really  only 
be responsible  for advice  if it achieves  a certain  quality and is presented a certain format?  
This seems contrary to the purpose  of s.39 and wrong.
If the adviser  is authorised to give advice about SIPPs it follows  that he will need to be able 
to consider and advise  upon the advantages  and disadvantages of the clients existing 
pension provision if he has any. Requiring  the adviser to document  that advice in a certain 
way is so closely related  to the activities for which permission  is given  that a breach of such 
a requirement is only an inter se matter.  It applies only as between  the principal  and the 
appointed representative.  It does not mean the appointed representative acts outside  the 
scope of his authority.  
This type of restriction - as it applies in this case  is either  an example of certain duties 
needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered as referred  to Anderson v Sense 
Network.  Or  it is closely  analogous to such duties.  In either event as explained in the 
Anderson case a breach of that procedural requirement does not mean  that the transaction 
in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is 
taken.
So if the adviser breached the requirements  in the Compliance Manual relating to the 
process for replacement business in my view this factor does not mean Intrinsic is not 
responsible for the advice given.
Ref: DRN607029113special requirements  for pension transfers
The Intrinsic  Compliance  Manual  says that pension  switching should  be treated in the 
same way as pension transfers.   Advice  to move  from a personal pension to a SIPP is a 
pension switch according to the regulators rules.  If the advice is to transfer from an 
occupational pension to a SIPP, thats  a pension transfer according to regulators rules.  But 
according to Intrinsics Compliance Manual  both should be treated as pension  transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual the adviser is required to pass Intrinsics pensions  transfer  test 
before advising  on (what Intrinsic calls) pension  transfers.  I understand that the adviser had 
the necessary  qualifications and had been  approved  by Instrinsic to give pension transfer 
advice.
my view  on whether the complaint is against Intrinsics appointed representative:
For all the reasons discussed above  it is my view that this is a complaint against Intrinsics  
appointed representative acting in its capacity as Intrinsics appointed representative.  The  
complaint relates  to business Intrinsic accepted responsibility for and Intrinsic is subject to 
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service for complaints about that business.
my provisional decision  on jurisdiction
My provisional decision is that this is a complaint that this service can look at.
In the course  of my consideration of the jurisdiction aspects of the complaint I have been 
able to reach a provisional conclusion on the merits  of the complaint.  I will now therefore go 
on to explain my provisional conclusion
The merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, I am satisfied the AR advised Mr D to switch his two personal pension  to a 
SIPP.  The  purpose  of the advice was to enable the investment in the SGG  and Global 
Forestry products and to release capital in the form of tax free cash. 
When giving  SIPP advice,  consideration must be given, if known, to the investments to be 
held within  the SIPP.  This has been  made  clear  by a number of statements made  by the 
FCA.  For example on January 2013 the FCA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
Ref: DRN607029114generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Whilst this was issued  after the advice was given to Mr D, I consider it was not a new 
requirement of the FCA but rather a reminder  of what the rules  in force at the time of the 
advice were.  
Therefore, when giving  the advice to transfer  the personal pensions to the SIPP, the adviser 
should have considered the investments to be held within the SIPP.   However, to do so 
would require the AR to know what the intended  investments to be held within the SIPP  
were.  It is clear  from the ARs version  of events that he was aware that the purpose  of the 
transfer to the SIPP  was to enable investment in SGG and Global Forestry products.
There are three elements to determining suitability.  These are set out in COBS 9.2.  A 
recommended investment: 
 meets the investors investment objectives
 is such that the investor is able financially to bear any related investment  risks 
consistent with his investment  objectives;  
 is such that the investor has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Nothing was formally established at the time of the advice about the level of risk that Mr D 
was prepared to take.  However, I consider there  is enough background information 
available to make  a reasonable assessment of the level of risk that Mr D had previously  
taken.  I consider that up to the point  of the investment  Mr D would be broadly categorised 
as a medium risk investor.  Mr Ds original personal  pensions were invested  in a range of 
mainstream personal pension funds  that I consider would generally be considered  medium 
risk.
The SIPP ended up as Mr Ds only pension provision and as such I consider that he was not 
in a position to bear the risks associated with the SIPP.  An  investor who places the majority 
of their pension into a SIPP for the express purpose  of investing in unregulated,  high risk 
investments is taking a very substantial risk.  I dont think it is disputed  that the SGG and 
Global Forestry investments were high risk.  I consider that Mr D did not have the capacity to 
bear this level of risk with his pension.  Mr D was reliant on these investments for the 
majority of his pension  income.  Any significant loss on these investments would have  a 
serious impact on his retirement  income.   
I am also not persuaded that Mr D had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved with the SIPP (by virtue of the investment to be held within  it).  The SGG and 
Ref: DRN607029115Global Forestry investments were unusual high risk investments and the risks associated  
with them  were well outside  what a typical retail investor would encounter.   
This conclusion is consistent with the comments made by the judge  in the case  of Burns  v 
FCA (Burns v FCA Upper Tribunal [2018] UKUT 0246 (TCC))
It would be readily  apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an unsophisticated  
retail investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by interests in a defined 
benefit scheme or in a personal pension invested in a spread of traditional investments, to 
switch his benefits into a SIPP which was to be wholly invested in either a single or very 
small number of inherently risky overseas property  investments was a wholly unsuitable  
course of action for that investor to take.  
In my view all three of the factors in deciding suitability  were not met. Even  if Mr D was 
prepared to take a high level of risk with his pension, and to be clear  Im not persuaded that 
he was, to place  all his pension into such high risk investments was not consistent with his 
circumstances. In such a situation the adviser should have advised against  doing this.  I 
consider it reasonable to assume that if Mr D had been advised not to go ahead with the 
SIPP and the SGG  investment he would have  heeded this advice.
Because of this my provisional conclusion is that the advice to switch  to the SIPP  for the 
purpose of making  the SGG and Global Forestry investments was unsuitable.    
There is documentary evidence both from around  the time of the investment  and from some  
time afterwards that would appear to contradict the above conclusions.
This is as follows:
The sophisticated investor certificate  signed by Mr D.
The solicitors questionnaire which records that Mr D understood the investments to 
be high risk. 
The sophisticated investor certificate  provided by Berkley Burke  is a certified  sophisticated 
investor certificate rather than a self certified form.  Attached to this form should  have been a 
written statement from an authorised person confirming Mr D had the required knowledge.  
However, no other paperwork was attached.  
 
I am satisfied that Mr D was not a sophisticated  investor.  It was clearly unwise of Mr D to 
sign documents confirming things that were untrue although investors sometimes do.  
Often this will be to gain access to what they perceive to be attractive  investments that are 
not available  to the general public.
As described  by the Vita Investment Planning letter,  the SGG investments appeared, on the 
face of it, highly attractive.  For example the Sustainable  Agro  Energy investment was 
described in the following terms.  The investment was for a ten year term with a projected 
annual return of 20% a year by year 10.  The product was saleable  at any time and had a 
contractual guarantee to a return of capital between years five and ten.    
On the face of it this appeared to be an investment that offered extremely attractive returns 
with very limited risk.  However, such high return low risk investments do not in reality exist.   
An experienced adviser should have realised this.  I can understand why an investor would 
Ref: DRN607029116be keen to invest in such an investment   and consequently exaggerate their investment  
knowledge and experience.   
Equally the AR, who arranged the pension switch would have known that Mr D was not a 
sophisticated investor.  In  my view the AR should not have facilitated the pension switch 
knowing that Mr D was not the sort of investor  the SIPP operator thought should be making 
these investments.  I consider the AR should not arranged the pension  switch.  
The solicitors questionnaire
In this Mr D appeared  to confirm that no pension  advice  was given and that he was aware 
the investments  were  high risk.  
The background to the completion of this questionnaire was that it was part of an action 
contemplated against a trustee  associated  with the SGG investments.  I understand that this 
action was suggested to investors by the AR and that the AR funded the initial cost of the 
action.  In such circumstances  I can understand why the AR might  wish to influence  the 
content of the document and in particular not to leave it open to possible complaints or legal 
action.  I therefore do not place  any great weight on this document.
My provisional conclusions are as follows:
Mr D was advised to switch his existing personal  pensions to the SIPP
This advice was given  by the adviser acting as an AR of Intrinsic
Intrinsic accepted responsibility for this advice
The advice to switch  from the personal pension to the SIPP  for the purpose of 
making the SGG/Global Forestry investments  was unsuitable
For these reasons my provisional conclusion is that this complaint should be upheld.
As a result of the ARs actions Mr D has lost the bulk of his pension savings.  I consider this 
will have been upsetting for Mr D and I propose  to award him £500 in recognition of this.  
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr D would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr D's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
I am satisfied that one of the reasons Mr D switched his pensions to the SIPP was to enable 
the SGG/Global  Forestry investments.  However,  I dont  consider this was the only reason.  
Mr D initially approached the AR to discuss ways of releasing capital from his pensions.   I 
dont think this was possible with his existing personal pensions and so a switch to a SIPP 
was necessary to achieve this.  Advice to switch his personal  pensions  to a SIPP  for the 
purpose of investing  in SGG/Global Forestry and releasing capital  was unsuitable.  
However, I do not consider that a SIPP was an inherently unsuitable product for Mr D.  So it 
would have been suitable advice for Mr D to switch his personal pension  to a SIPP  in order 
to release capital.   So redress should  be based  on the investments to be held within  the 
SIPP rather than comparing the value of the SIPP with the original pensions.    
Ref: DRN607029117 
what should  Intrinsic  do?
 
To compensate Mr D fairly, Intrinsic must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr D's investments  with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. The losses should be combined and the 
total is the amount of compensation payable.
Intrinsic  should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Intrinsic  should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Intrinsic  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr D £500 for the upset  caused  by the loss of the bulk of his pension  savings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Intrinsic deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been  taken off. Intrinsic should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN607029118investment  name status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Sustainable AgroEnergy 
(lease programme)still 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Sustainable 
AgroEnergy
(Capital Builder)still 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Global Forestry 
(Belem Sky)still 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
Ref: DRN607029119investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Intrinsic should take ownership of the illiquid  investment  by paying a commercial  value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Intrinsic  is unable  to purchase  the investment the actual value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Intrinsic  may require that Mr D provides an undertaking to pay 
Intrinsic any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Intrinsic  will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances  and risk attitude.  
Mr D accepted my provisional  conclusions  and had nothing to add.  The firm did not reply.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further  to add I confirm that my final decision is the same as 
the above provisional decision.
Ref: DRN607029120my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I order  Quilter  Financial Services  Ltd to pay 
the redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6070291