K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund to him the money 
that hes claimed for a stay at an overseas  resort.
background
Mr D used his Halifax credit card to make payments of £951.58 in December 2018  and 
£2,927.09 in February 2019 for a stay at an overseas  resort  in February and March 2019. He 
has some  issues  with the resort and a partial refund was agreed but he was evicted from the 
resort before the end of his stay.
He claimed a refund from Halifax under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
initially said that Mr D had made the payments  to a party that wasnt the resort so the 
required debtor-credit-supplier relationship  wasnt present  - but it has since  accepted that the 
required relationship  was present. It said that Mr D had received a 25% refund of the cost of 
the stay up to the end of February  (less  the additional costs  of his room  upgrades)  which  
totalled 9,720 Baht. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that the resort  
had agreed to refund 25% of the cost of Mr Ds stay until the end of February  2019  which  
she thought was fair in the circumstances.  But she calculated that it should have refunded 
13,300 Baht to him but he only received 9,720 Baht. So she recommended  that Halifax  
should refund to him the difference of 3,580  Baht  with interest.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
he didnt agree to pay for a larger room;
he paid for four nights at the end of his stay and was supposed to get one nights 
stay free;
hes provided photos and videos to show the impact that the noise and disruption had 
on his stay; and
the minimum that would be fair is the full 25% refund that he was promised  by the 
resort.
The investigator then said that Mr Ds contract with the resort  included a free nights stay so 
he should also be reimbursed with an additional  5,600 Baht as a result of that  so she 
recommended that Halifax should refund the equivalent of 9,180 Baht to Mr D (with interest). 
Halifax says Mr D had confirmed that he was given 16,800  Baht on the day that he left the 
resort (which included  a refund for the complementary nights stay) as well as a refund to his 
credit card of 9,720 Baht. It says that its satisfied  that the 25% refund already awarded  by 
the resort is fair because, when Mr D arrived at the resort, he was aware of the building  
works and still made the decision to upgrade his room so there  was no requirement for the 
resort to refund the additional  amounts he paid for the upgrade.  So it says that it cant  agree  
to refund the amounts  recommended by the investigator.
Ref: DRN61668892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ds complaint about  Halifax,  I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the resort 
and that Halifaxs  response to his claim under section 75 wasnt  fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of Mr Ds claim under  section 75 as only a court  would be able to 
do that.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there were  issues  with Mr Ds stay at the resort.  
Hes provided detailed  descriptions of those issues and photos and videos in support of his 
complaint. Its clear that Mr D wasnt satisfied  with the room  that was provided to him and he 
changed rooms  twice. He complained to the resort manager and staff about  the issues  and 
he says that he was evicted from the resort by the police before  the end of his stay because  
hed complained. The resort says that he was evicted because  he was abusive. 
Because of the issues about  which hed complained  the resort offered  Mr D an upgrade  or a 
25% refund. It wasnt clear what the resort  was offering to refund  it says that it was for the 
period until the scaffolding  was removed but it then agreed that it would  cover  the period 
until the end of February.
When Mr D left the resort he received a refund of 16,800 Baht (which  I understand was a 
refund of three  nights accommodation that he hadnt used) and 9,720 Baht which  the resort 
had calculated as the 25% refund. Mr D says that he was due to stay at the resort  for a 
fourth night  and that one night was complementary.  I agree with the investigator that it would 
be fair and reasonable for him to receive a refund for another nights stay - which is 5,600 
Baht.
The investigator didnt  consider that the resort had calculated the 25% refund correctly.  She 
said that Mr D should  also receive  an additional  3,580 Baht. I consider that to be consistent 
with the offer of a 25% refund that was made by the resort and to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable compensation  for the issues  that Mr D had with his 
stay for Halifax to pay him the sterling  equivalents  of 5,600 Baht and 3,580 Baht (a total of 
9,180 Baht) and to pay interest on that amount  from the end of February  2019.  That is in 
addition to the payments of 16,800 and 9,720  Baht that he received from the resort.  Im not 
persuaded that a higher  amount  of compensation is justified in these circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I order Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:
1.Refund the sterling equivalent of 9,180 Baht to Mr D.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the end of 
February 2019 to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN61668893HM Revenue & Customs  requires Halifax to deduct tax from the interest payment referred  to 
at 2 above. Halifax must give Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6166889