K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In 
summary, he explained that Mr H has said he was cold called by St Pauls  Marketing in 
early 2016  offering a pension review which subsequently  took place at his home. 
The investigator said he understood that St Pauls  Marketing had sent Mr H promotional 
material relating to debentures issued by Just Loans. He also understood that St Pauls  
Marketing sent,  or arranged to be sent, a summary  report to Mr H, detailing the historic 
performance of his existing pension plan which was discussed with him.
Mr H subsequently  applied for a SIPP and approximately  £17,200  was transferred into it in 
June 2016. As part of the process  a stockbroker account was opened  and just under 
£16,400 was paid into it and invested  in Just Loans  debentures.  
Mr H, through his representative, complained  to Alexander  David  in September 2018. I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred  it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted  us to take into account. However no files or 
evidence or arguments  were received.
The investigator noted Mr H had said St Pauls  Marketing had recommended the investment 
to him. Hed been  given  a summary report that detailed the returns  from his existing pension. 
The investigator thought it was likely a comparison to the anticipated returns from the 
proposed investment was also made.  He thought  it was difficult  to envisage such  a 
comparison being made without discussion of the merits of making the proposed  investment.  
Mr H was in his early fifties and not able to work due to injury. The investigator understood it 
was Mr Hs only private retirement provision. Mr H had told the investigator that he wanted  a 
safe investment,  and the investigator  thought  this seemed likely in the circumstances. The 
investigator thought  the investment of almost Mr Hs entire pension in illiquid bonds from a 
single issuer was clearly unsuitable. 
The investigator said if St Pauls Marketing hadnt  made a recommendation it was still 
obliged to assess the appropriateness  of the investment in accordance  with COBS 10 
(Conduct of Business Rules) as it had arranged the investment.  It also had an overriding 
obligation to act in Mr Hs best interests in accordance with the Regulators Principles.
COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Mr Hs knowledge and experience in the 
investment field relevant  to the specific type of product  or service offered or demanded so as 
to enable the firm to assess whether the service  or product  envisaged is appropriate.
The investigator said Mr H had no significant  investment knowledge  and no experience  of 
making investments  of this nature, and he didnt think  the investment was appropriate.
The investigator said whatever the precise nature of St Pauls Marketings interactions with 
Mr H, they directly resulted in an unemployed, inexperienced investor  with little capacity for 
Ref: DRN61305662loss investing  almost all his pension in illiquid, high risk bonds. The investigator thought  St 
Pauls Marketing had failed to act in accordance with the Principles or in Mr Hs best 
interests.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt 
provide a response. The investigator  wrote to both parties on 3 February 2020 explaining 
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final 
decision.  No further evidence or arguments were provided.  
The investigator sent Alexander David a further  letter dated 8 December 2020 (and a copy to 
Mr Hs representative).  He explained  that he thought  as Mr Hs investment had matured in 
December 2018  and Mr H had decided to reinvest the maturing proceeds in new Just Loans 
debentures, compensation should be calculated as at the date they were  reinvested (in 
January 2019). He also reduced  the amount he thought should be paid to Mr H for the 
distress and inconvenience the matter  had caused. He didnt receive a response from either 
party. The investigator  sent a further reminder on 24 December 2012 asking both parties to 
send any further  comments  about the change to the compensation calculation.  No further 
evidence or arguments  were received  from either party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Hs original complaint or to the investigators  requests 
for information. It didnt  provide any further  evidence or arguments  in response to the 
investigators assessment. So theres  only very limited evidence available  to establish what 
happened at the time of the transfer  and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mr Hs recollections of 
events. Alexander David/St Pauls Marketing hasnt disputed what Mr H said in his complaint 
to it, or what the investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I 
have seen against St Pauls Marketing; all of a similar nature,  involving seemingly  similar 
circumstances and the same investments. 
I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each 
particular case.  But Ive noted that what Mr H has said about St Pauls Marketings role is 
consistent with what other  complainants have described. So I think what he has said is 
plausible. And taking everything into account, I have found it credible.
Mr H has said St Pauls Marketing told him he would make better returns by transferring  his 
pension and investing in the Just Loans  debentures. The investigator said he thought it likely 
St Pauls Marketing had recommended  the transaction  and that it wasnt suitable for Mr H, 
and the firm hasnt  disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance  of the evidence 
available, I think its more  likely than not that advice  was given. And that the advice was 
unsuitable for the same reasons as given by the investigator.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset.  Mr H subsequently  transferred his pension to the SIPP and 
invested in the debentures. In my experience, its unusual  for someone of Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN61305663background and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension in order  to invest  in this 
type of investment without prompting.  I think it was unlikely to have happened  without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing.  Im  satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment 
in the debenture and that this wasnt a genuine execution only transaction.  St Pauls 
Marketing was aware of where the investment was going  to be made and facilitated it.
 
The investigator said that even if St Pauls  Marketing  was only involved in arranging the 
transaction it had been required, but had failed, to assess its appropriateness  in accordance 
with COBS 10. He didnt  think  the debentures were appropriate for Mr H. Again, St Pauls 
Marketing hasnt disputed  this. I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not that 
St Pauls Marketing arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debentures, but Im 
satisfied, on the limited evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting  them  and was 
involved in arranging the investment (and recommending it). The debentures were  high risk 
and speculative and clearly werent  appropriate for Mr H given his background, knowledge 
and circumstances.  
I think it was clear that the debentures werent  suitable or appropriate for Mr H and this 
should have been clear  to St Pauls Marketing. So I dont think the firm acted in Mr Hs 
interests as required by the regulators  Principles.  Im satisfied that if St Pauls  Marketing 
hadnt advised Mr H to transfer  and invest in the debentures or if it had told him it wasnt 
appropriate for him he wouldnt  have transferred and invested in them. Accordingly, Im 
satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused  Mr H to transfer and invest in a product 
that he would otherwise  not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures  caused  
the losses that Mr H has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr H on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Mr Hs 
existing pension was invested in funds  that provided a greater  degree  of risk than Mr H has 
indicated he was willing to take or were suitable for his circumstances. I think  with suitable 
advice Mr H would have  remained  in his existing pension scheme, but switched to an 
appropriate fund.  So I think  Mr H would  have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied  that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Hs circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr H fairly Alexander David should compare the performance  of Mr Hs 
investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value , no compensation  is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its 
Ref: DRN61305664value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt  pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
investment  
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment  - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date.  Then 
8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr Hs 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr H £100 for the distress  and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter  has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from  
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it has taken off. It should  also give Mr H a 
Ref: DRN61305665tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider/administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the debentures its value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the debentures in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt  from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within  
the plan on transfer, would  have  been worth at the end date had they grown  in line with the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution 
out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr H circumstances were  consistent with someone  who only had limited capacity for risk. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr H would have transferred with suitable  advice. But I 
think it s likely he would  have switched to lower risk funds if suitable  advice  had been  given.  
I dont know exactly how he would have  invested but I think  the index I have outlined above 
is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that Mr H 
was willing  and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Ref: DRN61305666I consider that Mr Hs risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was only prepared  to 
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  combination  
would reasonably put Mr H into that position.  It doesnt mean  that Mr H would have  invested  
50% in some  kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
The investigator recommended  that fair compensation  be calculated as at 25 January  2019; 
the date that Mr H decided to reinvest  into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Mr H had made  his decision to reinvest  his money having already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think 
Alexander David is responsible for any losses  arising  from the re-investment. 
And although Mr H may have suffered a degree of distress  when  the complaint was made  
and the return  provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a 
limited period given  he agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in December 
2018. So I think £100 is fair in the particular circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6130566