K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them two payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
In March 1999 and March  2004,  Mr and Mrs F took out regular premium PPI policies  on a 
mortgage. I understand both policies were sold in meetings. 
Lloyds doesnt  have much  information  about the first policy so its assumed the benefit was 
split jointly  between Mr and Mrs F. I understand the policy  gave them up 12 months cover if 
they made a successful  accident, sickness and unemployment claim. The second policy,  
which gave the same level of benefit,  was in Mr Fs name only.
Mr and Mrs F say they were pressured  into taking the PPI on the basis  they wouldnt get a 
mortgage without  it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  didnt uphold  it. Mr and Mrs F 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken them into account  here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs F they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage applications from 1999 and 2004, which they 
signed, were ticked to say they wanted PPI. There was an option to tick to say no if they 
hadnt wanted it. Mr F also signed  a fairly  detailed  separate PPI application  form for the 2004 
policy, as well as a separate direct debit mandate. The PPI application form included Mr Fs 
personal details  and also set out the amount of the mortgage they wanted covered by PPI 
and that Mr F was to have  the whole benefit.
Looking at all of this, I think its clear Mr and Mrs F had a choice about PPI in both cases and 
they agreed to it. I havent seen enough information  to make me think its likely Mr and Mrs F 
were pressured into buying  the policies.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it needed  to make sure it was right 
for them. From what theyve told us of their circumstances in 1999 and 2004 and the details 
Lloyds has given us about the policies, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs F were  eligible for the cover in 1999 and Mr F was eligible for it in 2004.
They werent caught by any of the main things  the policies didnt cover   like known 
health issues or unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop 
them claiming their full benefit had they needed  to.
Ref: DRN61969922Mr and Mrs F say theyd have got quite  limited sick pay. As Ive already mentioned, 
the PPI wouldve paid a benefit  for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim they made.  A mortgage is a big financial 
commitment and the consequences  of falling behind on your repayments can be 
serious. So I think the PPI gave  Mr and Mrs F useful protection.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for   
Mr and Mrs F.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs F 
enough clear information  about  it for them to be able to decide,  in an informed way, if they 
wanted it. I dont  know  what steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly  to Mr and Mrs F as they shouldve been. But, as Ive said, I think  
they agreed to the cover. I also think it was right for them  and so clearer information, had it 
been needed, is likely only to have confirmed this to them and is unlikely to have made them  
change their mind. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs F have lost out because  of anything Lloyds may have  done  wrong,  
so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.  
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6196992