K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains HSBC UK Bank  plc has incorrectly reported a default to credit reference 
agencies.
background
HSBC accepts that it has incorrectly reported  a default to credit  reference agencies. Ms H 
has brought a complaint to this service because she has no confidence that the default will 
be permanently removed  from her credit file and because she feels the compensation she 
has been offered  is inadequate.  She feels the report affected her ability to borrow  money for 
home improvements.
After Ms H brought her complaint to this service  HSBC offered  £200 compensation. The 
investigator thought  that HSBC had let Ms H down and taken too long to permanently 
remove the default. He looked at the information  provided by Ms H concerning the loan she 
tried to obtain but felt it was hard for him to address the difference  in lending  rates  between  
the rate she is now paying on her re-mortgage  and the rate she might  have got on a loan 
had the default not existed. He therefore based  his recommendation for compensation on 
the stress  and inconvenience caused  by the service HSBC provided. He recommended 
Ms H receive £300.
Ms H didnt accept the investigators view. She said the very least she would expect was the 
costs associated with her re-mortgage which  were  around £3,000  to £4,000.  She has 
pointed out that even  after the investigators  view the default was showing with one credit 
reference agency.
my provisional decision
I came  to different conclusions about  compensation from the investigator.  I set these out in a 
provisional decision to allow  both sides to comment.  
I understood Ms Hs lack of confidence  in HSBC. It had dealt with things quite badly here. 
The default  remained on her file with credit reference agencies after the final response letter 
said it would  be removed.  And after it was removed it was reported again. HSBC  then said it 
was placed on an exclusion  list so that it wouldnt be reported  again. But after the 
investigator issued  his view Ms H checked  her credit file again and the default was still 
showing with one credit  reference agency.
I agreed with the investigator that it was difficult to base compensation on the cost of Ms Hs 
borrowing compared to the cost she might  have had to pay if the default wasnt  on her credit 
file. We couldnt  know what  rate she would have been offered without the default.  Lenders 
take into account a number  of factors when deciding whether to give credit  and on what 
terms. And Ms H went on to borrow more than she originally intended and through a different 
method of borrowing.
Ref: DRN68907202So I agreed with the investigator that the best way of looking to compensate Ms H was to 
consider the upset and inconvenience caused to her. I thought, however, due to the 
repeated errors - and therefore  repeated  disappointments  - Ms H should receive more 
compensation. I thought £750 would be fair. I appreciated Ms H wanted more  compensation. 
But as I had said I wasnt satisfied that we could  know the rate she would have been offered 
on a loan had the default not been  on her file and without a degree of certainty  about  this I 
didnt think it would  be fair to require HSBC  to pay more.
I could understand  why Ms H was concerned the default may reappear.  HSBCs track record 
wasnt good in this regard. If it did she could return to this service and we could look at this 
complaint again.
responses to my provisional  decision
HSBC thought the compensated  set out in my provisional decision was a bit on the high side 
but it agreed to accept  the provisional decision.
Ms H didnt. She thinks Id been  focused on not being able to guess  the rate of interest that 
would have been used. But that wasnt the main thing she wanted to claim against. It was 
the cost of setting  up a second mortgage (£3,000-£4,000) which she wanted  HSBC to be 
liable for. She thinks I should look at the Bank  of England base rate around the time of the 
loan to determine the rate she would  have got had there been  no default. It is  she says - 
pretty simple. HSBC  has admitted the default was wrong, the ombudsman knows  it is 
impossible to get any loan with a default  so pay her charges as shes  paying way over the 
odds as it is.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to compensate  Ms H for the financial loss she says she has suffered as a result of 
the default I need to compare the product  she took out against  the product that I reasonably 
believe she would have  been able to access if the default hadnt  been there. When  making 
that comparison I wouldnt just look at one aspect of the product  such  as the fee  but I 
would look at the product as a whole.  So for example, if one product had a much  a higher 
fee but a lower interest rate than the other  product  I wouldnt only look at the fee when 
determining the financial loss. Equally if the interest rates were materially different I wouldnt 
ignore the fee when calculating the loss. 
Ms H wants  me to consider the Bank  of England  base rate to determine the rate she would 
have been able to borrow at. The Bank of England base rate is a factor but it isnt one that 
would enable me to make  a reasonable estimate of the rate of interest she would be offered 
without a default. Indeed  when Ms H originally  came to this service she said the rate she 
thought she would have got was 3.4% which  is a number  of times higher than the Bank  of 
England base rate at the time.
I asked Ms H to provide  me with evidence concerning the product  she hoped to take out 
before she discovered  the default. She has explained why she hasnt been able to do so. 
But without this evidence  I cant make an award  for financial loss as I havent enough 
information to estimate  the loss she may have suffered. 
Ref: DRN68907203As I also mentioned in my provisional  decision  Ms H didnt  borrow the amount she had 
originally intended.  She was originally looking to borrow between £10,000 and £15,000  and 
in the end borrowed £26,000. If I was making an award for financial loss Id need to take this 
into account. She has told us that she borrowed more  money  so that she could pay off her 
car loan which  was at a higher rate. When calculating her loss I would need to make  a 
deduction for the gain  caused by paying  off her car loan and switching that debt to a lower  
rate. The fact that it was beneficial for her to pay off the car loan also provides some 
evidence that the interest  rate she could borrow at on a second  mortgage with a default 
recorded on her credit  file was lower than the interest rate she had previously been able to 
achieve on a loan.
Given the lack of clarity over the financial  loss I still think it is better to base the 
compensation on the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms H. And I think the figure I set 
out in my provisional  decision remains  fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Ms H £750  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6890720