K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Highway Insurance Company Limited  acted unreasonably in not paying  him more 
when his vehicle  was written-off  after he made a claim  on his van insurance policy.  
background
Mr Bs vehicle  was damaged by fire and smoke in 2016. Highway offered him £4,500 for it. 
The valuation was done by an independent engineer, but Mr B didnt agree with it. He said 
as the engineer had listed  many parts that didnt need to be repaired or replaced, that 
inflated the projected cost of repair. And as the original vehicle had been converted into a 
specialist transporter, he said it was worth  much more than the engineer had said. A senior 
engineer who reviewed the case later thought the vehicle was worth  less than that. 
Mr B said the second engineer hadnt seen his vehicle in person. He thought the first 
engineer had not only overstated the damage to his vehicle but had also based his initial  
view partly on examples of vehicles he thought were similar to it. Mr B set out in detail why 
the examples  werent similar. He also listed several  vehicles  he thought were very like his 
but were advertised  at much higher prices. 
As Highway  wouldnt  offer him more than £4,500,  Mr B complained  to us. One of our 
investigators looked at all the details he and Highway had provided. He also sought an 
independent valuation. It said the vehicle  was worth less than the engineers had thought. 
The investigator also reviewed the large  amount of extra information Mr B gave us. It 
included an analysis of the valuations, plus an opinion Mr B got from a car sales  firm in 
2020. The firm said it thought Mr Bs vehicle was worth £8,250 or more at that time.  
The investigator thought Highway had acted reasonably in relying on the engineers views. 
And he noted that it hadnt taken off the full sum for the vehicles pre-existing damage. After  
Mr B gave him further  details, the investigator  issued a second view. He said the first 
engineer had based his view on adverts,  the vehicles mileage and its pre-incident condition.  
He said the engineers view about  the parts that would  need replacing was more  persuasive 
than Mr Bs opinion. And he thought it was reasonable  for the second engineer to have 
reviewed the vehicles damage  without seeing it in person.  
As Mr B continued to dispute  the investigators  view,  he asked the car sales  firm what it had 
based its valuation  on. The firm didnt respond, but Mr B said hed done the research, as set 
out in a spreadsheet hed sent us. The investigator also asked Highway to comment on the 
valuation. It said there  was nothing to show  that an engineer had carried it out. Mr B then 
sent us more information, including another spreadsheet,  much of which duplicated or 
clarified the details  hed already submitted to us. 
As there was still no agreement, Mr Bs complaint  was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes all the extra information 
Mr B submitted after the complaint  was referred  to me, and the two spreadsheets he 
prepared. Mr B has raised numerous  points and has referred to a wide range of issues.  But 
Ill only address what  I think are the major  ones.  
Ref: DRN65519212Highways general approach
Under the policy, Highway has the right to settle  any claim as it sees  fit, so it didnt need 
Mr B to agree to the proposed settlement sum (which  was offered as an interim payment). 
We only interfere with an insurers actions  if we think theyre  unreasonable.  In a valuation 
dispute, we dont attempt to value  a vehicle. We look at whether an insurer considered the 
evidence that was available at the time and reached  a fair conclusion. Normally wed expect 
it to rely on the figures set out in the national trade  guides. But if a rare or specialist  vehicle 
is involved, we think an insurer should  also look at adverts, to firm up the vehicles likely pre-
incident market  value. And we also give great  weight to the views of independent engineers,  
as their overriding  duty is to the courts. 
I think Highway acted  in line with our approach. It instructed an independent engineer   who 
checked the trade guides and then looked at adverts. As Mr B disputed the outcome of his 
review, the valuation was checked by another engineer, who did the same. I think  the 
engineers approach was in line with what wed expect to see. Insurers  normally  write off a 
vehicle if repairs are likely to cost over 60% of its value. Both engineers  thought the repairs 
to Mr Bs vehicle would cost far more than that, as at the time of the claim, they valued it at 
£4,500 or less. The average trade guide valuation for the van was around £2,800, but given 
its conversion to a transporter, the engineers accepted that value had been added by that. 
I think Highway was entitled to rely on the views of two engineers.  That doesnt mean 
Mr Bs views werent considered, which is what he believes to be the case. Highway thought 
the engineers  views were  more  persuasive,  but it invited him to get his own independent 
engineers report.  Mr B didnt think that was necessary, although another  independent 
engineers report  can often make a difference in a valuation dispute. 
the independent engineers view of the damage
Mr B thinks  the independent  engineers  report wasnt fit for purpose  so in his opinion,  
anything that followed on from it isnt valid either.  One of his concerns is that the engineer 
greatly overstated the number of parts that would need to be replaced.  He thinks  if he hadnt 
done so, Highway may have agreed to repair the vehicle. Mr B says some of the items listed  
for replacement werent even in the vehicle  in the first place. 
Recently, we asked  Highway to comment on this issue. Highways engineer said a generic 
list of items for the vehicles make  and model  may have been  used (so its likely most of 
them which would have been present). He said the cost of any items not present would have 
had little impact on the overall repair sum,  which was £9,887 plus VAT. He said smoke  
damage usually  requires the replacement  of all items in the cabin  and the interior also 
showed evidence  of water  ingress. The engineer pointed  out that the images taken  at the 
time showed numerous areas of poorly-treated corrosion on almost all the panels - many of 
which would have had to be replaced   plus numerous dents and scratches. And there  were  
several advisories from the vehicles  recent  MOT check. All these issues affected its value. 
Mr B says he estimated  at the time that some  external work was needed on the van, but that 
it would  cost no more  than £1,800. He says less than 12 hours work on the van has in his 
view made  a significant difference to it, which is in line with his initial estimate. Whilst that 
may be the case,  I dont think Highway had to accept  Mr Bs estimate or his opinion. 
Ref: DRN65519213Insurers require work  to be done to a standard thats  acceptable  to them.  Usually items are 
replaced rather than repaired - and some  repairs are done that a consumer might not 
consider to be essential. The independent  engineer would have been aware of that in 
assessing the cost of the damage. He wouldnt have  based it on the most competitive rate 
for repair, or on the repair of items that (in his professional view) were better replaced. 
Given the total projected cost of the repairs, even if it can be argued that to some  extent they 
were overstated, I dont  think its likely  that made  a significant difference to the outcome
the independent engineers choice of adverts 
I can see why Mr B thinks the adverts found  by the independent engineer werent  for 
vehicles that were comparable to his, as they werent transporters and werent four- berth. 
Highway says engineers look for the closest matches first, so it may be that there were no 
vehicles for sale at the time that more closely matched Mr Bs. I think that would also explain 
why the ones the engineer found  were located far away from where Mr B lived.  He says 
vehicles like his arent common  and tend to sell quickly.  
The engineer arrived at a valuation of £4,500  and had only deducted £433 for pre-incident  
damage, although he thought the vehicles poor condition merited a far greater deduction. 
Highway asked him why the deduction was so low. He said if hed deducted the full sum that 
he thought was appropriate,  Mr B would have got very little for his vehicle. 
the second engineers view 
The second  engineer found  adverts  for four-berth transporters like Mr Bs that were  priced  
from £4,500 to £5,950. But they all had lower mileage - and the engineer  thought they were 
in better  condition. He added  £2,500 to the trade guides  valuation to reflect  what  hed seen 
in the adverts.  But he also noted  the poor condition of Mr Bs vehicle prior to the fire, plus the 
MOT advisories. That made a significant  difference to his final valuation  of £3,187.  
Mr B says only the independent engineer saw the vehicle in person. But its standard 
industry practice for desktop assessments to be done, and we think thats reasonable. The 
second engineer deducted £2,000  for the vehicles poor condition. Although he thought it 
was worth less than the independent engineer did, Highway honoured its offer of £4,500. 
Mr Bs adverts 
Amongst the many  adverts  Mr B provided,  he said three were  extremely  close or direct 
comparisons to his. They were advertised at £11,995 to £16,995. Asking prices dont usually 
reflect sales  prices, so its likely that they sold for less. But we asked Highway to comment  
on why it didnt think these vehicles were comparable to Mr Bs. 
All three were registered later than his (the most  expensive one seven years later).  The 
engineer said he couldnt view the interiors, but all three vehicles were stated to be in clean 
and tidy condition,  with only minor issues. They  also had wet rooms or extra features fitted  
that Mr Bs vehicle didnt  have. One owner  said there were a few minor faults with his 
vehicle. The engineer noted  these  but said they didnt compare to the issues with Mr Bs 
transporter. And whilst considering Mr Bs adverts, the engineer  found  a vehicle advertised 
at £6,000 that he thought  was much more like Mr Bs than those shown in the other  adverts. 
But he said it had much lower mileage, far better bodywork and extra features installed. 
Ref: DRN65519214The engineer said it was the overall  poor quality of Mr Bs vehicle, inside and out, that 
affected its overall value  at the time of the valuation. Mr B says the independent  engineer 
couldnt have  accessed the vehicles interior, as he didnt have a key. But Highway  couldnt  
have carried out a valuation without inspecting  the interior, so the claim would  have had to 
be halted until an engineer was able to do that. As Highway has interior images, the 
independent engineer must have had access  to it at some point. 
Mr B sent us images  of the vehicle from 2018 that show it in much  better condition (inside 
and out) than in those taken initially and reviewed for the valuation. But I dont  think  images 
taken after the valuation are relevant to it.   
other issues 
Mr B is also unhappy that one of Highways engineers  called him early  one morning and, in 
his view, tried to bully him into accepting its offer. In addition, hes concerned that it may 
have passed his details on to other firms. I dont think these issues were  put to Highway as 
part of this complaint.  But theres  a note on the file about Mr B having asked for the relevant 
call recording  and it not being available. Theres also a reference to Highway  having  said it 
doesnt pass details  on to other firms.  If Mr B wants to pursue these  issues  further, I think  
hell have  to make a formal complaint to Highway.  
my conclusions
In my view, Highway acted reasonably in offering Mr B £4,500 after considering the views of 
the engineers.  They  in turn had looked at trade guide valuations,  plus adverts, and had 
noted the pre-incident condition of Mr Bs vehicle. Whilst I agree that the independent 
engineers chosen adverts  werent  helpful,  I think that was corrected by the second engineer. 
So I dont  think there was an ongoing  impact  from it. I think  it was reasonable for Highway to 
rely on the views  of engineers. And I think  it acted reasonably in not making a larger 
deduction for pre-existing damage.     
I dont think Mr B has shown that his vehicle was worth more  than Highway  offered  him for it, 
despite his extensive research and his very strong  opinions about  the issue.  I think  its fair to 
say that even small differences in mileage, year of registration and condition can greatly  
affect a vehicles value. I think  prices  for what seem  to be similar  vehicles can vary 
considerably, and that the range of adverts produced by the parties illustrates  that point. I 
dont think Mr B has shown that Highway didnt consider his views or the adverts  he 
submitted, either. But I think it would  have been better had it explained to him in more  detail  
why it didnt agree with his conclusions. 
If Mr B wasnt happy with Highways  valuation, he could have taken it as an interim payment 
and had the vehicle repaired himself, whilst retaining the right to make a complaint about  it. 
Or he could have got an opinion  from an independent engineer of his choice. He may then 
have had some engineering evidence that supported his case for Highway (and later,  for this 
service) to consider.     
I know Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision, especially as hes put such a huge 
amount of time and effort into providing evidence.  From what  Mr B has said about  his 
personal circumstances, its clear that the vehicle is of much  more than financial value to 
him. I think thats why hes more  distressed  about what  happened that he might otherwise  
be. I do sympathise  with Mr B, but as I dont think hes shown that Highway acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN65519215my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
28 September 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman    
Ref: DRN6551921