K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  about the distress  and inconvenience TSB Bank  plc (TSB)  caused  her when 
she tried to recover a payment that she sent incorrectly.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 9 April 2019.  A copy  of it is attached  and it 
forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on upholding the complaint and 
asking TSB to pay £150 compensation. I asked Ms P and TSB to let me know if there  was 
anything else they wanted me to consider.
Neither party has responded so no further  submissions have been made.
 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms P nor TSB sent me anything else to consider, I see no reason to change  my 
provisional findings. Im therefore upholding Ms Ps complaint, for the same reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ps complaint against TSB Bank plc and require it to pay her £150 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61970062copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms P complains  about the distress and inconvenience  TSB Bank plc (TSB) has caused her when 
trying to recover a payment that she sent incorrectly.
background
On 2 June  2018 Ms P made a faster payment, in error, from her TSB current account to another 
account, for £1,150.The payment was a deposit for renting a property. Ms P contacted TSB and said 
it told her it would raise a payment in error request for her. 
On 5 June  2018 Ms P sent more funds to the correct account. She contacted TSB some days  later for 
an update on her request  for the originally misdirected funds to be returned,  but discovered it hadnt  
been actioned. She complained about this delay  but was told the payment recovery could take up to 
five weeks.
Ms P continued to ask TSB for updates. In August 2018 she became aware of some returned 
payments to her account  but TSB couldnt confirm  if they were  from the account she had mistakenly 
credited. On 6 September 2018 TSB confirmed to Ms P it had closed the matter as it said the bank 
that had received the payment in error  hadnt been able to get a response from its account holder.  A  
few days  later Ms D received another payment  from that account and assumed, as it had now 
matched the amount shed sent in error, it must be a return  of her payment. 
Ms P says she still hasnt  had confirmation of this from TSB and didnt get a reply  to her complaint 
about the delays and lack of communication. So, unhappy with the final outcome she brought  her 
complaint to us.
TSB has said that it tried to recover the funds  on a best endeavour basis and had closed  the case  
when the other bank  said it hadnt  had a response from its customer. It also said it did update Ms P on 
4 August 2018.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt  be upheld. He said that Ms P 
had made  the error  and TSB was only obliged  to ask the other  bank involved  if it could get the 
payment back. And, in any event, in this case  funds  had now been returned.
Ms P didnt  agree. She said she still hadnt received  a response from TSB about her complaint and 
she hadnt received an explanation for its delay in processing the payment  in error request. So as no 
resolution could be found, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  listened to the phone  calls Ms P had with TSB Im aware of 
how upset she is about this situation  although I was pleased to learn  that Ms P did ultimately get her 
funds returned. 
But theres no dispute that Ms P sent a faster payment to the wrong account  and there was no error 
made by TSB. And Im satisfied that TSB made Ms P aware that when it tried a credit payment 
recovery (CPR) it would do so on a best endeavour basis. So I cant  say TSB has done anything 
wrong regarding the payment, or in its efforts to try to recover the funds.
But Ms P has complained that  while she accepts responsibility for the payment error, she doesnt 
believe TSB treated  her fairly in terms of how quickly it processed  the CPR  and how it communicated 
with her during the process. 
Ref: DRN61970063And I dont think TSB did treat Ms P entirely  fairly over these  matters and I think  that caused her 
further, unnecessary,  distress.  I say that for the following  reasons. 
Ms P made the incorrect payment on 2 June 2018. She rang TSB on 4 June 2018 to ask what could 
be done to get the money back. Ive listened to that call  Ms P was very upset   but the adviser that 
helped her was quite specific in what he would  do. He said initially Im going to enter the information 
needed to get this money  back for you. He recorded the information Ms P gave him about  where the 
money had been wrongly sent and where  it should be sent and said Well try to get your money  back 
but on a best endeavour basis, is that ok? and concluded with Ive put that all through for you, it will 
be about 7 days before  you hear from us and like I said its on a best endeavour  basis. 
I think  it was clear that from that conversation,  that Ms P had asked TSB to start the process of CPR  
and I think TSB gave a clear  indication  that it had recorded all of the details required and would be 
starting the process. I note TSB gave  timelines  of what could be expected and when, so I think it was 
reasonable for Ms P to assume that TSB would be starting  the CPR process  following  that 
conversation.
TSBs own customer contact notes show that it started the CPR process  on 18 June 2018 following  
another conversation  with Ms P. But I think that was when Ms P was chasing TSB  having  not 
received any reply within the seven days she was originally told. So I think TSB didnt act in a timely 
manner here and should  have begun CPR around 4 June 2018, which meant Ms P had waited 
around two weeks for some news when in reality the process hadnt  even started.  Bearing in mind her 
obvious concern in losing such a significant  sum of money, I think  that would have added  to her 
overall distress.  
Ive then gone  on to consider how TSB kept Ms P updated, bearing  in mind its own internal processes 
said that a CPR   where the customer had made an error, can take up to five weeks. So I think TSB 
should at least have communicated  with Ms P after the five week  period, which would have been 
23 July 2018  based on its own CPR start date of 18 June  2018.
But theres no evidence that it did communicate with Ms P until 4 August 2018  which was only in 
response to Ms P requesting an update. No further communication was made  until 
6 September 2018, when TSB explained that it had closed the matter as it had been unable to get a 
response from the other bank to which  the erroneous payment  had been made. 
So I dont think TSB communicated  in line with its own internal  standards, or tried to manage Ms Ps 
obvious distress by at least letting her know it had investigated the matter and was still waiting for a 
response from the other bank. I note TSB only chased the other bank in early August 2018  which 
was after its five-week standard timescale.
As Ive already said, TSB didnt make an error  regarding payment here  and was only obliged to 
chase the funds  on a best endeavour basis. It didnt have any responsibility to get the money back or 
to ensure Ms P was refunded the payment. But I do think it had a duty of care in both starting the 
CPR process when Ms P made it aware  of the mistake and to keep her updated, at least in line with 
the timescale it had decided and advised that such an investigation should take.
I dont think it did either of those things satisfactorily, and I think this added to the overall concern  
Ms P had and caused her further distress and inconvenience by not knowing  whether she was likely 
to get her money back. On that basis, I think TSB should make a payment of £150 for this additional 
distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN61970064my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im minded to uphold Ms P complaint against TSB bank plc. TSB should 
pay Ms P £150 for the distress caused to her over the delays  in starting the process  of trying  to 
recover the money and the lack of communication  thereafter . 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6197006