K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Services Limited hadnt acted fairly  or reasonably  when 
dealing with his home emergency policy. He wants compensation.
background
Mr H had a home emergency policy with British  Gas. He said that it had failed to carry out an 
annual service of his boiler as required in the contract,  and only carried  out a security 
check.  Mr H also said that he hadnt  been told of any changes  to the contract  and hadnt 
agreed to any.
Mr H complained to British Gas. It said the use of the phrase security check  by the 
engineer was unnecessary and a service  had been  carried out. It paid £20 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by the term security  check .
Mr H complained to us, saying that there  hadnt  been any confusion   the engineer  had told 
him that servicing  was no longer carried out and only security  checks  undertaken. The 
investigators view was that British Gas wasnt  at fault. She thought  that the term used was 
unfortunate, but not unreasonable. The adjudicator couldnt inspect the boiler herself,  but 
was satisfied on the basis of the evidence from British Gas that a boiler safety check was 
carried out and the term annual service wasnt ever used in the work history.  She thought  
the compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed. He said a safety check wasnt  the same as an annual  service and he 
believed that thered  been a breach of contract.  British  Gas confirmed that the engineer had 
spent about an hour at Mr Hs property  and had recorded information  showing that hed 
checked the safety of the boiler. Mr H said that this proved he was correct and the engineer  
had only stayed for about 15 minutes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Hs case, his home emergency policy does give him an annual service as a benefit of 
his insurance policy.  This means that this service can consider the issue. The core of this 
complaint is whether Mr H got an annual service in 2018.
The definition of an annual  service  in the terms and conditions of the policy is a check  each 
year that your gas boiler,  appliance  or central  heating is safe and working properly. This 
could reasonably be described  as a security  check, but this isnt a term with which  
consumers are familiar. 
And it seems from Mr Hs account of his conversation with the engineer, he was given the 
impression that a service  wasnt to be carried  out. But the work history  and evidence shows  
that a boiler safety check was carried out; the readings are available. British  Gas hasnt used 
consistent terms to describe this task in the work history; this is more likely to be because 
different people have worked on the boiler over time, not because  the check wasnt  carried 
out.
Ref: DRN60414982From the evidence available to me, including the readings from the boiler, Im satisfied  that 
its more likely than not that a safety check (which is all thats required to be an annual  
service under the terms and conditions of the policy) of the boiler was carried out in 2018. 
Mr H has said that I shouldnt  place  any weight on this evidence as it refers to a chimney 
(which he doesnt  have); but its common for such  questions to be ticked  ok when  there 
isnt a chimney in order to move forward with the check. It doesnt  mean  that I should ignore 
this evidence.
Mr H has received £20 for the trouble and upset caused by the engineers use of the term 
security  check . I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, especially as the 
safety check was carried  out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
9 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6041498