K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined her home insurance claim.
Background
In September  2018, Mrs C returned from holiday to find she had no electricity at home. She 
was able to restore  the supply by flipping the tripped switch but had to throw out the 
contents of her fridge-freezer. She hired  an engineer to investigate. He completed an 
electrical installation  condition report;  installed a new consumer unit; replaced a basement 
light; and repaired a cable. Mrs C then notified  a claim on her Aviva home insurance policy  
(which provides buildings  and contents cover), seeking to recoup her repair costs. But it 
declined her claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C complained to Aviva. It maintained that the claim wasnt  valid as no 
insured event had taken  place. Mrs C then referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Mrs C had shown that the fault was caused by any events covered 
by her policy. He noted that Aviva did offer home emergency cover which included some  
protection for electrical breakdowns  but Mrs C hadnt taken out that level of cover. He 
therefore concluded that Aviva was within its contractual  rights  to turn down her claim.
 
In response, Mrs C said that any home  insurance policy should cover loss of electrical 
power. And she disputes that the policy doesnt  cover her repair. As she didnt accept our 
investigators view, her complaint has been escalated to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. 
Its not in dispute  that Mrs C spent money  repairing her electrical  system.  But no insurance 
policy will cover every eventuality. Her policy covers  loss or damage caused  by certain, 
specified events  listed in her policy document. Its down to Mrs C to show that one of these 
eventsor  insured perils caused  any loss or damage she claims for. Otherwise,  Aviva  
wont be contractually liable. 
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, Im not persuaded that the failure was 
caused by any of the events which Mrs C is covered for (such as a storm or an escape  of 
water). In fact, the report shes provided says:
Installation shows signs of its age, worn switches, pendants, lower than expected 
insulation resistance readings  etc. Evidence  of rodent damage is present.
This suggests the failure was more  likely  caused by gradual wear over time.  As set out in the 
general conditions  of the policy,  Mrs C isnt covered for this:
Your policy is intended to cover you against  unforeseen  events like fire or theft.  It 
does not cover wear  and tear or damage which happens gradually  over a period of 
time. 
Ref: DRN69426182Im satisfied its reasonable  for Aviva  to decline the claim on this basis. In addition, Mrs C 
also isnt covered for loss or damage caused by pest infestation. That plus electrical 
emergency and breakdown would  only have been  covered  (subject to the terms and 
conditions) if shed  opted  to take out home emergency cover  alongside  her standard 
buildings and contents insurance at an additional  cost. But she didnt do so.  
I know Mrs C thinks all home insurance  should cover electricity  breakdowns.  But its down to 
Aviva to make a commercial  decision  about what types of risk its prepared  to take on, and at 
what cost. Im satisfied that Avivas  decision not to include electricity breakdowns as 
standard is within its legitimate commercial discretion.  It would therefore  be inappropriate for 
me to interfere with this. Mrs C had the option  of taking out additional  cover with Aviva  or 
another provider if she required it. 
 
It may be worth pointing out that its normal for an insurance policy to indemnify the 
policyholder against loss or damage  caused by specified insured perils; but they dont 
usually cover the cost of rectifying the actual causes/perils. In this case, it seems the 
electrical breakdown  itself didnt cause any damage or loss aside from the lost food from her 
fridge-freezer, which Mrs C has confirmed she isnt claiming for.   
I appreciate why Mrs C opted to replace  her consumer  unit. But I consider this to fall within 
her duty under the policy to look after and regularly maintain [her] property. Her report 
suggests that the unit had gradually  worn  down over time  and thats not the type of 
damage which Aviva is contractually  liable  for. 
In conclusion, Mrs C hasnt demonstrated that she suffered  from loss or damage caused by 
an insured peril. So I wont be directing Aviva to cover her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942618