K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a MPPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs H in February 2000. The 
policy covered Mr and Mrs H against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.  The policy and 
mortgage ended in 2004. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be not upheld.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 9 July 2019 upholding Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Within the decision I made  the following findings:
Bank of Scotland recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs H but I didnt  think  it was 
suitable for them. 
I came  to that conclusion because  I could see that Mr and Mrs H more  likely than not 
had between them excellent sick pay and wouldnt have  found  the policy of any 
value.
I concluded that if Mr and Mrs H had been properly advised it is likely they would not 
have taken the policy out.
Both parties  have confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Bank of Scotland has offered to put things right as described in my provisional decision.      
Mr and Mrs H have nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
As both parties have  nothing else to add and Bank  of Scotland are prepared to put things 
right, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Bank of Scotland should put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out the MPPI. Bank of Scotland should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month  for the MPPI.
Ref: DRN62451292Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Bank  of Scotland  can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bank  of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.        
Bank of Scotland must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
For the above reasons I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs H fair compensation  in accordance  with the above  calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6245129