K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the way The New India Assurance Company Limited (New India)  
has handled a subsidence claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
background
In 2015 Mr D was inspecting his tenanted property when he noticed  cracks had appeared on 
the walls  towards the front of the property. He made  a claim for damage  caused by 
subsidence under  his buildings  insurance policy.
New India agreed to carry  out some  monitoring of the property. In 2016 it said the monitoring 
had shown that there was no more progressive movement of the building. So it proposed to 
carry out repairs to the walls where the damage had occurred.
New India did note there had been  some  cracks  at the rear of the property prior to the 
inception of the policy in 2011.  It was established that these  were  cracks from a previous 
incident of subsidence that hadnt  been  repaired by Mr D. New India said repairs to these 
cracks wouldnt  be covered under this claim, and would need  to be completed  at Mr Ds 
expense to aid with stabilising  the property. But, New India said the damage at the front of 
the property would be covered. 
Mr D didnt want the front of the property to be repaired as New India recommended 
because he didnt think this was going  to fix the issue. He initially said more  monitoring 
needed to be carried out. He appointed his own engineers to report  on the movement at the 
property in early 2017. He said their reports showed there was progressive movement to the 
property, so the property wasnt  in a state to be cosmetically repaired  at that stage.  
Mr D later brought a complaint to our service as he wanted New India to pay for the 
stabilisation of the foundations, and not just the cosmetic repairs to the property. And hed 
changed his mind about wanting further monitoring done. He now didnt feel this was 
necessary.
Our investigator reviewed  the reports carried out by both New India and Mr Ds engineers.  
Having done so, he thought New India  should do some more monitoring of the property, to 
see if it was still moving.  He also thought New India  should cover  the cost of Mr Ds 
engineers reports.  
New India agreed to this and initially Mr D agreed. But he later said he thought this wasnt 
necessary and New India should  start the stabilising works to his property. He provided  a 
schedule of works from his own contractor  for underpinning the property. New India didnt 
think this was necessary  and the investigator didnt alter his view. 
As Mr D didnt  agree, the matter has come  to me to decide. 
After the matter was referred for a decision,  Mr D provided an invoice for the schedule of 
works hed had put together which he thought  New India should reimburse. This invoice was 
for £2,662.32. The investigator didnt think New India  should pay for this as his 
recommendation was that New India should  carry out more  monitoring, and this schedule of 
works was commissioned  after this.
Ref: DRN69670622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator. Ive explained  why below.
New Indias reports said further monitoring wasnt needed. But it has now agreed to monitor 
the property for a further period to see if the movement is ongoing. It did this based on the 
report Mr D provided from his expert.  Mr D thinks his expert evidence suggests the property 
should be underpinned now. So Ive looked at what the reports  say to decide whether New 
India has acted reasonably in the way it has suggested moving  this claim forward. Having 
done so, I agree New India should carry out a further period of monitoring.  I say this because  
I dont think the reports  show that underpinning is the most appropriate way to move forward  
at this stage. 
Mr Ds first report,  dated January 2017, says that movement is still active.  But the engineers  
comments are focussed more on the damage at the rear of the property,  which is pre-
existing subsidence  damage. I think its reasonable for New India to exclude this damage as 
both parties accept it has been there  since the property was purchased in 2002  and hasnt  
been repaired. So this report alone doesnt  persuade me the property is still moving.
Mr Ds second report is more detailed  and was based on a visit to the property and a review 
of the history  of the property. The report focuses on the work undertaken to establish the 
cause of the movement and whether it is still progressive. Given the level of detail I find this 
report more persuasive. The conclusion of this report is:
we would recommend that the crack  width monitoring  continues  with the possibility 
of further locations being  added
I understand Mr D has sought  to rely on this report to show that substructure works should  
be done without  further monitoring,  but I dont agree this is what  the report concludes.  There 
are comments in the report that support  Mr D and say the property is still moving.  But New 
India has said the porch  extension  at the front of the house has shallower foundations, but 
this doesnt seem to have  suffered any damage.  It says that as there  is no damage to the 
porch area this could  be a sign there  is no progressive movement. I think this, coupled with 
the recommendations from Mr Ds engineer, are enough to say more monitoring should be 
done.
The report  says if there is progressive ground  movement a possible reason for this could be 
an issue with a pipe that runs underneath the property. But, Im aware that following  this 
report Mr D had a contractor complete a survey of the pipes, and it found no damage or 
leaks that had caused the issue. Based on everything Ive seen there  is no firm evidence 
that the property  is still moving, and I think it reasonable for this to be established before a 
decision is made on what repair works are required.
After our investigator issued his initial view, Mr D said he was getting a further  report. But 
what hes provided is a schedule of works for underpinning  the property, which  is what he 
wants New India to do. Based  on all of the reports Ive seen, further monitoring is needed to 
determine if the property is still moving.  And none  of the reports suggest that underpinning  is 
the best way to stabilise the property  at this stage. So New India should carry out a further 
period of monitoring. And it should  be done  to the timescales the experts recommend. 
Ref: DRN69670623Following this, the monitoring report should be made available  to Mr D for his engineer to 
comment on. 
I appreciate Mr D has said hes lost confidence in New India  but it has reasonably 
accepted it will carry out more monitoring and it has allowed Mr D to provide his own 
evidence. So I dont  think it has acted  unreasonably. I appreciate  the claim has already been 
ongoing for some years   but I dont think New India  has been the cause of this delay. Mr D 
asked New India not to go ahead with cosmetic  repairs whilst he got his own engineers to 
review the property. Im aware he had some  challenges doing this, but I dont think  New 
India can be held responsible for that delay.
New India has agreed to reimburse Mr D for costs incurred for his two reports  carried out in 
2017; the report to survey  the drains  and the water  test invoice. As those reports were  to 
investigate whether drain problems were a cause  of the ground movement, and show  more  
monitoring should take place, I think its fair New India reimburse  Mr D for these. The total 
cost of these reports was £1,125. 
Mr D has provided a further invoice for the cost he incurred in getting  the schedule  of works 
put together,  but I dont  think  New India needs  to reimburse him for that amount. As above, 
at this stage there isnt sufficient evidence this work is required. And New India didnt  agree  
for him to do this. I appreciate this has been  an added expense  for Mr D but I dont think 
New India needs to reimburse him this cost. 
my final decision
My final decision is that The New India  Assurance Company Limited should carry out a 
further period  of monitoring on Mr Ds property, done to the timescales  recommended  by its 
experts.
The New India Assurance Company Limited  should also reimburse the costs Mr D incurred 
for his three engineers  reports  totalling  £1,125.  It should  add 8% on this figure  from the date 
of the invoice to the date of settlement.*  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If The New India Assurance Company 
Limited deducts income tax from the interest  it should tell Mr D how much  has been taken 
off. The New India Assurance Company  Limited should give Mr D a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6967062