K820x#14complaint
Ms R compl ains that charges applied by Nationwide Building Society were unfair  and caused 
her financial difficu lties. To settle matters  shed like a refund of all charges applied to her 
account.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings on it can be found  in my provisional 
decision a copy extract of which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt proposing to uphold  Ms Rs complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final decision.
Neither party has provided any further  submissions  for my consideration.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for my consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision and it follows  
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64293272Copy extract of provisional decision
complaint
Ms R compl ains that charges applied by Nationwide Building Society were  unfair and caused her 
financial difficu lties. To settle matters  shed like a refund of all charges applied to her account.
background
Ms R thinks the charges applied by Nationwide to her account are exces sive and unfair  and as a 
resul t theyve caused  her financial difficul ties. In 2014 Ms R said that in 2014 she visited a 
Nationwide branch to see if her overdraft could  be extended  or if she could take out a loan to pay off 
her overdra ft. Nationwide declined her requests. In October 2016 Nationwide removed her 
arrange d overdraft  and she couldnt acces s her funds. She says this had a significant impa ct on 
her. Shed like Nationwide to refund all the charges it applied to her account.
Ms R complai ned to Nationwide but it didnt upho ld her compla int. It said it could  only look at charges 
within the twelve months  prior to her compla int and there  were nt any during  that time. It also said it 
would nt have  been  able increas e her overdraft or offer a loan if the eligibility criteria wasnt met.
Unhappy with Nationwides respo nse, Ms R referred her complaint to our servi ce. Our adjud icator 
explained that due to case heard by the Supr eme Court we cant challenge the amou nt of fees 
applied simply beca use a customer thinks they are too high. He explai ned that he could look at 
whethe r the charges were  applied in line with the terms and condi tions of her account and he 
concluded that they were . In terms of the removal of her overdraf t, our adjud icator noted  that the 
terms and conditi ons allowed Nationwide to do this.
Our adjudicator didnt think Nationwide had treated Ms R positively and sympathetic ally when she 
made Nationwide aware of her financial difficu lties. Althou gh Nationwide was entitled to make a 
decisi on to refuse her request to extend her overdraft or make a loan to enabl e her to consoli date 
her debts, our adjudicator thoug ht Ms R had taken sufficie nt steps to inform Nationwide of her 
financial situat ion in 2014 and no help was offere d. So he thought Ms Rs compl aint should  be 
uphe ld and Nationwide should pay £300 for the distress and incon venience caused.
Our adjudicator noted that Nationwide was entitled to remo ve her overdraf t. And when it had written to 
her about this, the letter explained that she should contact  Nationwide if she wasnt able to make the 
paymen ts in time and it also gave her a numbe r to call and explai ned that a repayment plan could be 
put in place, if needed but there was nothing to show Ms R asked  for further help at the time.
Nationwide doesnt agree with the adjudicato rs view. Due to lapse of time it thought Ms Rs 
recol lection of events migh t not have been  correct.  It thought it would have given her appropriate 
help if shed made it aware of her financial difficu lties. It also explained that detai ls are given on 
stateme nts about how custome rs can seek help if they are strug gling to manage their debts.
In response to Nationwides comme nts, our adjudi cator thought that in the absence  of recor ds from 
Natio nwide, he didnt have any reason to doubt  Ms Rs testimony  that shed visited Nationwide to 
discu ss her financial difficu lties. He thought the informati on Nationwide included on statements  about 
manag ing debts  was positive, but he thought that as Ms R had previously  sought help she migh t have 
felt help would not be forthcoming . He under stood Nationwides reasoning but his opinion remai ned 
uncha nged.
Nationwide disagrees  and it has asked for an ombudsma ns decisi on.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and argument s to decide whats fair and 
reaso nable in the circumsta nces of this complai nt.
Ref: DRN64293273Id firstly like to expla in to Ms R that I can only look at the charges applied by Nationwide in the six 
years prior to her comp laint to Natio nwide.  Ms Rs statements show that Nationwi de applied a 
numbe r of differ ent charges to her account.  These include charges for using her arrange d and 
unarrang ed overdraft , interest on her overdraft and charges for paid and unpaid transactions.
The adjudicator has already explained that, so far as the charges on her unarrange d overdraft are 
conce rned, a case decided in the Supreme Court means I cant consider whethe r these charges  are 
too high or unfair. I   can only look at whether they were applied correct ly by Nationwide.
With regard to charges  for the use by Ms R of her arrang ed overdraft  and for paid and unpaid 
transac tion charges.  Nationwide is entitled to apply  these charges its entitled to do so by the terms 
and condit ions.
Ive there fore looked at the terms  and conditi ons applicable to Ms Rs account to see if Nationwide 
was entitled to apply the charges. The relevant  parts of the terms and conditi ons provide as follows:
Arranged  overdrafts:
34. If we agree to give you an arran ged overdraft , you will receive an arran ged overdraft  agreement 
and this will also set out the charg es and interest rates that apply.
Unarrange d overdrafts
35. If you do not have enough mone y to use (including any arranged overd raft) to make a 
payment you ask us to make, well decide whether or not to make the payment. Your  payme nt 
instructi on will be treated as a request for an unarranged overdraft.
36. If we agree to your request for an unarranged overdraft , we may charge you as set out in 
our Current  Account Interest Rates  and Charge s leaflet.
37. If we do not agree to your request for an unarranged  overdraft and refuse a payment  due to 
lack of funds, you may be charg ed an unpaid  transacti on fee".
The terms and condition s also make clear that Nationwide can apply charges should there be a 
shortfal l of funds in the account  either if it approves a payme nt or if a paymen t of a direct debit is 
returned as unpaid.
Ms Rs statements  also set out the charges  Nationwide will make for refusing a payment due to lack 
of funds (unpaid transacti on fee) and allowing a paymen t despi te lack of funds  (paid transaction fee).
Based on the terms  and condition s Ive referred to above. Im satisfied  that Nationwide was entitled 
to apply the charges it did. So I cant say it was wrong of Nationwide  to apply these.
When a customer is in financial difficul ties Id expe ct a financial business  to cons ider this and to treat 
their customer positively and sympat hetically. Ms R says she made Nationwide aware of her financial 
difficu lties in 2014 but it did nothi ng to help. She says asked for a loan to consoli date her debts  or for 
an overdraft  but she was told didnt qualify for either.
Where a customer asks for help Id expect there to be some record of this on Nationwides 
customer records. I havent  seen any seen any specific reference to Ms R asking for help in 2014 
so Ive also looked at her account statements for 2014. Her statements for 2014 show that 
Nationwide refunded a numbe r of charges  in April, May, Augu st and December  2014 amoun ting in 
total to £165.
Ref: DRN64293274Based on the refun ds it made at the time I   think its more  likely than not that Ms R did make 
Nationwide aware of her financial difficulties at this time. That being the case, I   need to decide if 
Nationwide did enou gh to help.
In refunding certain charges  to her in 2014, this suggests  to me that Nationwide listened  to her 
concerns and did what it could  to help. I realise  Ms R says she also asked  for a loan or for her 
overdraft to be extended  but I cant  say Nationwide acted unfairly in declining her requests. I say 
this because its gener ally for Nationwide to decide wheth er or not to extend  credit based on its own 
eligibility requirements.
I can understand why Ms R may have been disappo inted that Nationwide didnt make  further credi t 
available to her, but the fact it didnt suggests to me that it was seeki ng to act responsibly by 
ensuring it didnt make  credit available to her which wasnt affordabl e for her.
Based on the limited informati on available to me I think Nationwide treated her positive ly and 
sympathetically because  it refunded some  of the charges it applied to her accou nt during  2014 . If Ms 
R continued to experience financial difficu lties I would have expected her to contact Nationwide about 
this  but I have nt seen  anythi ng to suggest this was the case.
In terms of Nationwide remo ving Ms Rs overdraft  in Septembe r 2016, Im satisfi ed that the terms and 
conditi ons allowed Nationwide to do this. Im mindful that Ms R says this placed  her in financial 
difficulty as she was unab le to access her funds but I think Nationwi de treated her fairly in the 
circum stances I say this beca use when  it wrote to her on 17 Septem ber 2016 to explai n her overdraft 
would be remo ved on 23 October 2016 - it said that if she wasn t able to reduce her account  balance 
to £0 by 23 Octob er 2016  she was invited  to phone Nationwide to discu ss her options and to put a 
repayment plan in place if required. I havent seen anythi ng to suggest  Ms R did this at the time.
On balance I think Nationwide did enou gh to help by refun ding the fees it did during 2014 . It follows 
that I dont agree with the adjudicator that Nationwide is required to pay any further compensation to 
Ms R and Im not intendi ng that Nationwide needs to do anythi ng further.
my provisional decision
For the reasons given I dont  intend to upho ld this complaint unless I receive further submissions from 
the parties that chan ge my opinion.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6429327