K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr K took out with Bank  of Scotland plc 
in 2017 on the advice  and recommendation of a third party.  Hes unhappy that his initial fixed 
rate ended earlier than he was expecting, and that he only found out when  his monthly 
mortgage payment  went up. He wants compensating  for the extra interest he paid on the 
standard variable  rate (SVR) until he secured a new deal, and for the stress this caused 
him.
background
Mr K took the mortgage out with Halifax on the advice and recommendation of an 
intermediary Ill call B. The mortgage  offer was issued in March 2017, but Mr Ks purchase 
only completed in July 2017. He thought  this meant  his fixed rate (nominally a two-year deal) 
would run until July 2019, but it actually ran out on 31 March 2019,  and the mortgage  
switched to SVR. 
Mr K found  this out when his mortgage  payment  for April 2019 was around £470 higher than 
hed paid previously. He contacted Halifax, and quickly arranged a new deal. He also 
complained, about  what  he saw as the fixed rate ending early, and the lack of warning  from 
Halifax. Halifax said it had written to Mr K on 1 March 2019, but it seems  Mr K didnt receive 
the letter. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong, and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K has asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the fixed rate ending in March rather than July 2019. Mortgage deals 
typically run for a fixed duration from the start date or until a specified end date. The latter  is 
far more common that the former, and the product Mr K took from Halifax  on Bs 
recommendation was the latter. The mortgage  offer set out the end date for the fixed rate as 
31 March 2019,  and explained that unless a new deal had been selected  to take its place, 
the mortgage would revert  to SVR from 1 April 2019. 
So at the most basic level, Halifax has kept to the terms  of the contract between it and Mr K. 
I dont know, and wont speculate on, how much of the information in the offer document  
Mr K assimilated, but it was set out in a format  approved by the regulator of mortgages. In 
any event, it was up to B, as Mr Ks advisor,  to ensure he understood that his fixed  rate had 
a specified end date rather than a specified  duration.
I now address the question of notification. The starting point is that lenders dont have  to tell 
borrowers when their deal is coming  to an end. They can reasonably take the view that 
borrowers should already know this from the information given in the offer and will manage 
their own affairs accordingly.  Where lenders choose  to send out a notification,  its up to them 
to decide which communication  method they wish to use. I have no regulatory power, so its 
not for me to say Halifax should use email because Mr K would have  preferred  that rather 
than a letter.
Ref: DRN67100842Ive seen the extract from Halifaxs contact notes pointing to the reminder letter going out on 
1 March 2019; overall, Im satisfied it was most likely sent, and correctly addressed. Thats  
not to say I disbelieve Mr K when he says he didnt receive it; post does sometimes fail to 
reach its intended destination.  But even  if thats  what happened here, it doesnt mean Halifax  
has done anything  wrong; as I said earlier, it doesnt  have  to send the notification  at all.
I appreciate Mr K felt rushed into securing a new deal with Halifax. Of course, if hed had 
more time to look at his options, he might have  been  able to choose a different deal with a 
different lender. But thats not Halifaxs fault.  It did all that Id expect it to do, and more than 
regulation and good practice required it to do, in order that Mr K could choose his next steps.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710084