K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited, trading  as Egg, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision issued in May 2019 
and attached here. This forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to provide any further  information or representations they wanted 
me to consider. Neither party had anything  further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have noted that neither party has disputed my findings or asked me to consider any further  
information. As a result  I see no reason to depart from my original findings.  
I do not think that Miss K lost out as a result  of anything Egg did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint so it follows that Canada  Square Operations  Limited, 
trading as Egg, doesnt have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
S Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63940522Copy of Provisional  decision
background
Miss K took out a credit card with Egg in 2003. At the same time she bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve helped cover  the repayments on her card for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt work 
due to accident,  sickness  or redundancy.
Miss K says that she didnt  need the policy and the terms werent properly explained  to her.
The adjudicator thought that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator thought  that the 
terms hadnt  been explained properly to Miss K, and if they had been she wouldnt  have bought the 
policy.
Egg disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when considering this case. Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  this complaint.  Ill 
explain why Ive reached this provisional decision. 
Miss K doesnt suggest  she didnt have a choice  about the PPI or that it was added without her 
knowledge or consent. And I can see from the evidence  Egg has provided  that Miss K took out the 
credit card and PPI online, and wouldve needed to make an active  choice to buy the policy.
So Im satisfied Miss K took out the PPI knowing she didnt have  to.
Egg didnt  make a personal recommendation to Miss K to buy the policy  Miss K didnt speak with 
anyone when  she made her application. So Egg didnt need to take steps to make  sure the policy was 
right for her. But Egg did need to make sure Miss K had all the information  she needed  to make her 
own decision.  
Looking at the information  provided to Miss K I think its possible that the information wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been.  For example, to read the relevant  exclusions Miss K had to click through  to a 
separate page. Miss K couldve continued through the application without viewing these.  
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Miss Ks complaint. I need  to consider  whether, if 
Miss K had all the information she needed,  she wouldve  made a different  decision and not bought the 
policy. 
When the adjudicator  first reviewed this complaint they noted that Miss K had an existing medical  
condition when she bought the policy. This wouldnt  have been covered under the terms of the policy. 
The adjudicator thought if Miss K had understood this that she wouldnt have bought the policy.
I dont agree. When Miss K first brought her complaint  both to Egg and to this service, she didnt  
mention her medical condition when  asked directly. It was only later in the complaint process  that she 
told us about it. Egg asked  for further information about Miss Ks condition.  Miss K responded  through 
her representatives  that she thought it likely she had consulted  her doctor in the 12 months prior to 
buying the policy  which wouldve meant it was excluded from cover.  
But I dont think this wouldve prevented her from buying the policy. I dont think Miss K wouldve 
thought it was the most likely reason  for being off work  for at least a month. Whilst Miss Ks condition 
Ref: DRN63940523was chronic and mainly  managed through treatment of symptoms rather  than curable, I dont think it 
was likely  to have  led to significant time off work. I also think if Miss K had thought her condition was 
significant she wouldve mentioned it when  she was asked when  she first made  her complaint.
So I dont think Miss K wouldve decided  not to buy the policy if shed understood her existing 
condition wasnt covered. 
Its possible that Egg didnt make clear other information in relation to the policy. But looking at Miss 
Ks circumstances at the time I dont think this wouldve  made her act differently,  either. Miss K was 
eligible for the policy  and I dont think she was affected  by any of the terms which  mightve made  it 
more difficult for her to make  a successful claim  (other than in the way Ive already described). Miss K 
wasnt entitled  to any contractual sick pay, and she hadnt been working for her employer long enough  
even to be entitled to statutory redundancy pay. So if shed been off work I think the policy wouldve 
offered her a useful benefit. And it seems as if Miss K wanted this type of cover.  
The cost of the policy  was comparable to other similar  policies on the market  around the same time. It 
was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. 
So although Miss K probably didnt get all the information she needed, I dont  think she lost out as 
result. 
my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold Miss Ks complaint, so it follows that if my decision becomes  final 
that Canada Square Operations Limited wouldnt  have to pay any compensation.
Ill consider any further evidence or information either party wishes  to submit  before 
15 June 2019 before  making my final decision
S Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6394052