K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL, as the insurer, has taken responsibility  for this sale, so Ill refer to them  as the seller  in 
this decision.
background
Miss L took out a store card in 2000.  At the same time she was sold a PPI policy which  
wouldve helped cover her repayments  on the card if she couldnt  work. 
Miss L says that she wasnt  given  enough information about  the PPI and she felt pressured  
to take it. 
The adjudicator thought  that Miss Ls complaint  shouldnt be upheld. Miss L disagrees,  so 
her case  has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Miss L applied for the store card in an application completed in store.  FICL has supplied a 
copy of the application form. Theres a separate  section  titled  protecting  your account. It 
says only sign this box if you require  Account  Cover. Miss L signed  in this box, and signed 
the completed form. There were other additional  products  on the form offered in a similar 
way which  Miss L didnt select.
Miss L describes feeling under pressure because there was a queue  of disgruntled 
customers waiting behind  her at the till. But I dont  think this wouldve meant  that Miss L was 
unduly pressured by FICL. On balance, Im satisfied Miss L bought  the PPI knowing  she had 
a choice about it.
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Miss L about the PPI so it didnt need to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it 
gave her all the information  she needed  to make her own decision. I dont think FICL did this 
well enough. For example, theres  no mention  of what the exact benefits or costs were.  
But looking  at Miss Ls circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Miss L understood the policy would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Miss L chose to take out the PPI, it seems  she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Miss L was affected  by any of the terms which  mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
Ref: DRN64754392conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Miss 
L.
Mrs B says she was entitled  to some sick pay if she wasnt working.  As shed only worked 
for her employer for a few years  I dont think shed have been entitled to much redundancy 
pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially  for longer. So 
I think the policy offered  Miss L a useful benefit.
Miss L says her parents wouldve helped her if she couldnt work. Im sure Miss Ls parents 
wouldve wanted to help her if they could, but this kind of help cant be guaranteed.
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Miss Ls entire 
balance in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Miss L wouldve still bought  the policy  if shed understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Miss L lost out as a result of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6475439