K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that their Bank of Scotland plc monthly mortgage payments 
show up as £334.56  on their mobile  banking app, but that £330.14 is actually debited  from 
their account.
background
Bank of Scotland mentions that a fault was first reported with Mr and Mrs Ms app in January  
2019, and subsequent notes on its file indicate  that Mr and Mrs M were given the impression 
this issue could take 7-10 working days to be fixed.
After Mr M contacted Bank of Scotland a number  of further times a complaint was logged  in 
February 2019. Although this complaint was resolved  informally over the phone, it appears 
Bank of Scotland acknowledged at the time that the previous timescale  for resolving  the fault 
had been optimistic. 
It offered  Mr and Mrs M £33.00 for the cost of the phone calls theyd  had to make,  plus £40 
for the trouble and upset  its communications  caused. As Bank  of Scotland  agrees in the 
subsequent written response  when the complaint was escalated tin March 2019, At the end 
of the call the agent stated you are welcome  to call back  after your March payment if the 
error is not resolved in order for the complaint to be escalated should you remain  unhappy.
Mr M duly did call back  in March 2019, because the error  was still occurring. Bank  of 
Scotland reopened the complaint,  but again  had to re-manage Mr and Mrs Ms expectations.  
Although this was an ongoing known error with the banking app it didnt yet have a timescale  
in which  it could confirm  it would be resolved. 
Bank of Scotland suggested  that Mr and Mrs Ms contractual monthly payment of £330.14  
could be verified  in the mobile banking app under Minimum  Monthly Payment. It assured Mr 
and Mrs M in its written response to the March  complaint that this was the amount it would 
continue to collect, despite a different figure being reported elsewhere in the app. As Mr M 
had phoned Bank  of Scotland again  to escalate the complaint at its own suggestion, it 
offered another £12 for his additional call cost. However it refused to provide any further 
compensation  and the resolution of the problem  in the app remained outstanding. 
Mr M referred the complaint to our service, saying that he would like further compensation of 
£75. But one of our investigators considered  that she didnt have the power  to make Bank of 
Scotland do anything further, as the problem was affecting a number of accounts  and it was 
making efforts to resolve that centrally. Bank of Scotland  had told her that if they were  in any 
doubt Mr and Mrs M could call to check their contractual monthly payment, and an 
automated service would  provide the correct figure. It also reassured her that it would  always 
write if the contractual monthly payment were to change.  On this basis the investigator  felt 
that the total amount  Bank of Scotland had offered was fair compensation for Mr and 
Mrs Ms costs  and inconvenience.
Mr M didnt  agree. He mentioned that he suffers from mental health issues and is dyslexic,  
so had become  distressed when the written information wasnt correct.  
To address these  further concerns the investigator asked for confirmation from Bank of 
Scotland of when  the fixed interest  rate period  on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was due to end, 
which is in January 2024. She didnt think Mr M, being aware that there is a known  error  with 
Ref: DRN60444902the mobile app, would have reason to think that any amount  other than £330.14 (i.e. the 
correct contractual  payment) was due to be collected until February  2024.  So she wasnt  
persuaded to change  her findings.  
Mr M continued to disagree, so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating it must have been  for Mr and Mrs M to see every month that the 
mortgage payment  that had actually been deducted from their account was a few pounds 
less than what the mobile banking app advised it would be. They obviously werent wrong  to 
raise this issue with Bank of Scotland and, having  apparently been assured that it should be 
relatively straightforward to rectify, to then complain when it wasnt. Bank of Scotland  was 
right to offer them compensation given  that it seems  it should have managed  their 
expectations better here.
But at the same time, once the error had persisted for several months I think Mr and Mrs M 
would reasonably have become aware that it might  continue  to happen  until it was fixed  
and that this didnt mean  they werent meeting their contractual payments. Theyd originally 
been issued with a mortgage offer stating that the payments would be £330.14,  and that was 
what in the end was being deducted monthly  from their account. 
So irritating  though this ongoing fault was, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M shouldnt  have 
had any reason to doubt that their contractual payment was being taken correctly.  That is, 
until February 2024 when they would transfer onto a variable interest rate. Whilst I think its 
highly likely  Bank of Scotland would be able to fix the error before then, given the number of 
accounts it was affecting, its again worth noting  here that the terms and conditions for the 
mortgage require  Bank  of Scotland  to write to Mr and Mrs M to notify them  of a change in the 
monthly payment  in any event.
I understand why Mr and Mrs M may think this service should have the power  to make Bank 
of Scotland rectify a problem  like this within a defined timescale. But we are not the industry  
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. We cannot require a business to change  the 
systems it uses  to manage  all its accounts  or require them  to operate  in a particular way. We 
also do not have  the particular computer  expertise  to understand how long it might take to 
put a permanent fix in place. All the investigator could do, which  I can see she has done, is 
obtain confirmation from Bank of Scotland that it was taking the matter seriously and working  
on a solution.  That isnt the same  as being able to say that a solution  has to be in place  at 
the time she completed  her assessment.
Ive reviewed the amounts of compensation Bank of Scotland offered Mr and Mrs M, and 
consider they represent fair compensation given that Mr and Mrs M shouldnt now have 
reason to question  whether they are paying  the right monthly amount. Ive taken the health 
conditions Mr M has mentioned into account  when making my decision. Im satisfied that the 
amounts Bank of Scotland  offered are consistent with the award the Financial Ombudsman 
Service would have  made in Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.
Ref: DRN60444903my final decision
Im aware that Bank of Scotland offered Mr and Mrs M a total of £85 compensation. It must 
ensure that this compensation has credited  Mr and Mrs Ms account. Assuming all of this 
has now been paid,  I do not require Bank of Scotland to pay Mr and Mrs M any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 February  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6044490