K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  didnt  deal with her request 
to draw her pension benefits  in November 2018 in a timely way. She says its service was 
poor and it made a number of errors which caused her distress  and inconvenience.  She also 
complains that Aviva  didnt advise  her in 2015  that she could take her benefits at age 60, 
instead of waiting until her revised state pension  Age, without suffering any penalties.  
In addition Mrs R would  like the widowers pension that was part of her previous 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  to be included within  her plan with Aviva. And, 
following the transfer of her OPS benefits to the plan in 1991, shes  also unsure  if the 
redress calculation that was carried out in 2001 to correct any loss caused by the original 
advice to transfer was correct.
background
Following a recommendation from her financial adviser, Mrs R transferred her contracted  out 
OPS benefits to a section  32 plan with Aviva in 1991. This meant that, amongst other  things, 
Aviva had to ensure that it matched any Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) included 
within the OPS at state pensionable age. In Mrs Rs case, at that time, it was 
2 February 2015  - her 60th birthday.  
In 2001 the original advice to transfer was reviewed and found  to have been unsuitable. A 
loss calculation was carried  out by a third party. As a result redress was paid back  to the 
section 32 plan although it was held as separate policy.  
In January 2015, as she was approaching her 60th birthday,  Mrs R contacted Aviva to defer 
her section 32 benefits. Later that year she contacted Aviva for some  information and 
requested a retirement illustration. The provision  of the illustration was delayed and  as a 
result, Mrs R raised a number of questions.
Why had her three policies, as previously referred to, become one plan? 
What were the death benefits of the three plans going forward?
Did the policies contain any excess funds above the GMP? Would there be any tax 
free lump sum entitlement from the excess?
She requested  an illustration of the likely pension payable  at age 67. 
Aviva provided a response but Mrs R wasnt happy.  She said Aviva hadnt answered her 
questions and didnt  accept the explanation that it had simply migrated her policies into one 
plan. 
Aviva agreed that it hadnt treated Mrs R entirely fairly and had delayed in providing the 
information Mrs R needed.  It also agreed  it hadnt  answered all Mrs Rs previous questions 
and hadnt been transparent  so it paid her £200.
In late 2018, having spoken  with a financial adviser, Mrs R contacted  Aviva  to request 
retirement quotations. Mrs R says the information  that was subsequently requested  by Aviva 
was confusing and as a result  of what she says were errors from Aviva she didnt receive  the 
quotations until January 2019.  Aviva offered a total of £125  for its errors during that time.
Mrs R then complained  about  a number of issues that she wasnt happy  with. She said Aviva 
had been difficult  to deal with and shed had to speak with numerous different staff 
Ref: DRN69817032members. She also felt Aviva  hadnt  addressed a number of her concerns about the GMP 
within her plan and also hadnt looked  at whether shed been better off taking her benefits at 
age 60 as opposed to her revised state  pension age. 
Aviva apologised for the additional distress and inconvenience  its mistakes had caused and 
offered a further  £175. But it didnt believe it hadnt made Mrs R aware that she could have 
drawn her benefits in 2015 without any penalties. 
Aviva also considered any delay its errors may have caused in paying Mrs R her annuity on 
time. It said it could either backdate the annuity to what it would have paid in 
February 2019, including missed  payments  to the value of £616.71, or continue  to pay the 
current annuity  which was higher. 
Mrs R remained  unhappy so she brought her complaint to us. She said she lacked 
confidence  in Avivas  illustrations for her retirement  benefits, but felt compelled to accept 
them as the plan included redress for being mis-sold originally. She wanted us to conduct a 
review of the illustrations  and didnt want to accept Avivas offer without some sort of check. 
In an effort  to simplify matters Mrs R set out her complaint points clearly in a letter to us 
dated 7 October  2019. They were that:
She doesnt think Aviva made it clear what effect the changes to the state pension 
age from 2010 onwards  would have had on her drawing her benefits in 2015. She 
maintains that Aviva  didnt make it clear  she could have drawn her benefits then 
without incurring any loss. 
Shes unsure  if the redress offer from 2001 properly compensated her. 
She thought  the section 32 plan was complex  and that there  was a lack of 
information and advice available generally  regarding them. She didnt think Aviva 
answered her questions about the plan in a timely manner and she says it didnt 
provide clear guidance as to the effect  of the flexibility that evolved in pensions  from 
the introduction  of the new pensions  freedom regulations in 2015. 
Much  of the communication she received from Aviva was difficult to understand and 
didnt apply to her section 32 plan. She thought Avivas overall service had been  poor 
and should be investigated. She acknowledged  shed been  compensated for these 
errors but thought they were minor awards .
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She made the following  points:
She didnt comment on whether the compensation awarded  in 2015 was fair as that 
complaint had already been  dealt  with. Although she did consider some  of the 
information from 2015 that remained relevant to Mrs Rs new complaint.
She didnt consider  whether the redress awarded in 2001 was fair as that matter 
related to the advisory firm that gave the original  recommendation.  But she didnt 
think that Mrs R hadnt been  disadvantaged by the administration  of the policy  that 
was created from the redress  payment.  She thought Aviva had explained how the 
plan would work but as there  werent  any excess benefits  over and above those 
required to sustain  the GMP she didnt think the outcome had affected Mrs R.
It wasnt clear  how the equalisation changes from the legislation  in 1990 affected 
plans that had been transferred out. But she thought  Avivas  retirement  benefit  
illustrations correctly  reflected Mrs Rs position. 
Ref: DRN69817033She thought  Aviva  had the right to determine whether it introduced greater flexibility 
of payments following pension freedom legislation.
Mrs R could have taken her benefits in 2015  after shed raised her queries. The 
investigator noted that Mrs R had already  asked  to defer taking the benefits  before 
she raised a complaint.
Aviva  provided accurate information regarding Mrs Rs plan, although she thought it 
had made some  errors. But she didnt think these  errors  would have  impacted  Mrs R 
to the extent that she couldnt have drawn her benefits from 2015, so she didnt think 
payments should be backdated to then. But she did think  Avivas offer to backdate 
the annuity to February 2018,  if it benefitted Mrs R, was fair and reasonable.
She thought  the payment of £300 overall  for the distress and inconvenience caused 
was fair and reasonable.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she regretted  transferring her OPS benefits  in 1991 and that 
had led to a longstanding mistrust in Avivas  management of her plan. She also thought  the 
section 32 plan was so complex and unique  that it was difficult to access advice or 
information about it, particularly around  the GMP aspect of such plans. She made  the 
following points in response:
She thought  the plan should have been  updated to comply with equalisation 
legislation and queried whether the redress from 2001 had taken this legislation   
which had been in force since1990   into consideration.   She wanted to know how 
she could ensure the redress took account  of any subsequent  legislation  changes.
She didnt think shed been  made aware  that she could still take her pension with a 
full GMP at age 60, following the governments decision  to extend the state pension 
age  in her case to age 66. She believed she should have been  told explicitly that 
Aviva was still honouring her original state  pension age. 
She didnt think that Avivas offer of compensation for all of its errors, delays and 
provision of mis-information was fair and reasonable. She thought this was especially 
true of its provision  regarding section 32 plans as she wasnt  able to access 
information about the plan on-line.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen how strongly Mrs R feels about this situation.  She has made  a number of detailed 
points, which  I have  read and considered. 
I hope the fact that I do not respond  in similar  detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution  service, we are tasked  with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality.  In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I do have some sympathy for Mrs Rs position  here as shes  unsure whether previous 
redress on her plan has been correctly calculated  and this means shes unsure whether 
the value of her benefits now is correct. She fears she might  not be able to get things altered 
 if this complaint  is found in her favour  having already received the tax free cash  and 
some income payments. But I agree with the investigator here, and for broadly the same 
reasons, which  I know isnt an outcome Mrs R wants  so Ill explain my reasons.
The suitability of the original advice and subsequent  redress calculation
Ref: DRN69817034Mrs R has made a number of complaint points about   and references to  the original 
recommendation to transfer her OPS benefits to a section  32 plan. And shes made 
references to the complexity of the plan and how difficult it is to get correct information  and 
advice on it. By her own admission she says some of my distress  stems from the 
psychological impact  of knowing that the policy was mis-sold 30 years ago, prompting 
continued mistrust of Aviva's handling  of my investment.
But from the evidence  Ive seen Aviva didnt  give Mrs R the original advice to transfer. It 
simply offered section 32 plans  like many  other  providers did at the time  which  her 
adviser who made the recommendation  decided was the most appropriate plan for her 
circumstances and situation at that time.  That advice was later deemed  to have been 
unsuitable and a loss calculation was carried  out to determine if Mrs R had suffered a 
financial loss because  of the transfer.  But that didnt involve Aviva.  It hadnt  given  Mrs R any 
advice, it didnt carry out the loss calculation and there was no responsibility on Aviva  to be 
involved in the process  other than to add the redress to Mrs Rs plan
For that reason,  I cant attribute any of the complaint points about either the mis-sold plan or 
the redress calculation  to Aviva, as it simply had no involvement in the advice process  at all.
Mrs R has asked to have  the redress calculation looked into again because shes  not sure 
certain factors that have  now come  to light  such as the equalisation of benefits, were taken 
into consideration. Mrs R could approach the business that carried  out the calculation  to 
express her concerns but I think its worth  me explaining that the aim of the industry wide 
Pensions Review, under which Mrs Rs advice was reviewed in 2001, was effectively to draw  
a line under any pension mis-selling and put matters right at that time. 
It was a one-off  exercise, which recognised the impracticalities of waiting until someone 
retired  which might not be for 15 years or so in Mrs Rs case,  before assessing  any loss. 
The aim of the compensation calculation  was to work out what  would be enough to increase 
the value of Mrs Rs section 32 plan to provide the same level of benefits  as her OPS  
scheme would  have provided.  
For many  people, such as Mrs R, there  was a long period left until their retirement date.  So 
the calculations  had to be based on a number of assumptions of what  might  happen 
between then and the retirement  date. The regulator  set down how the calculation needed to 
be run, and the assumptions that businesses had to use to assess any loss. 
The calculation was based on the regulator guidelines at the time. Any additional shortfall  
that might  have occurred  after the review took place is with the benefit of hindsight and 
changing factors, which werent know at the time of the calculation.
But in any case,  any complaint Mrs R may have with the original  recommendations and the 
subsequent review and loss calculation  isnt Avivas responsibility, and so I dont think  it 
should have to do anything to help resolve  this matter.
Was Mrs R aware  she could still draw her benefits  at age 60, without penalty, following 
changes to the state pension age?
Mrs R says she deferred her pension plan because shed understood, from information shed 
received, that she would lose some pension benefit at age 60 if she took it then, instead of 
waiting for her revised state pension age of 66. She says Aviva  should have explained to her 
that this wasnt the case when  she spoke  to it in February 2015.
Ref: DRN69817035Aviva on the other hand says it couldnt give Mrs R advice on what to do but provided the 
necessary information  available to make an informed decision. 
Ive seen the original  policy details and schedule that applied  to Mrs Rs section 32 plan. The 
schedule confirmed the benefit  date  which was the date the plan would be paid out from  
was 2 February 2015, which  was Mrs Rs 60th birthday. It also confirmed that the GMP would 
increase to the 6 April immediately preceding the attainment by the insured of the state  
pensionable age of 60. 
The accompanying illustration document referred  to a retirement age of 60 and said it would 
provide a GMP of at least £3976.44 at state pension age. All the other references to benefits  
paid before retirement, such as death benefits for example, referred to before age 60 and 
assumed the retirement  age is the same as that specified under the scheme. I also note 
the letter which Aviva  provided to confirm the setting  up of the plan, dated 18 October 1991, 
confirmed the plan would provide at normal pension age 60 a Guaranteed Retirement Fund 
of £30,844 with compound bonus  which will be used to provide  retirement  benefits. 
Although I note there are also references  to the normal pension age.
But I think that, on balance, the information  Aviva provided in 1991 made Mrs R aware that 
benefits were payable from age 60 and that the GMP would be available  at that time. I 
understand Mrs Rs point in referring  to state  pension age but I think there are sufficient 
references to the age of 60 to make it clear  that age would apply when  assuming  a GMP. At 
the time there was no suggestion  of any legislative changes  to the state  retirement age and 
so I think any reference to the state  or normal pension  age would have assumed an 
understanding of that being age 60.  
But there are further reasons for thinking that Avivas references to the retirement age at 
which GMP applied remained consistent. The retirement  illustration from November 2014,  in 
anticipation of Mrs Rs 60th birthday,  said under Guaranteed Minimum Pension. Your GMP 
is payable from 60. If your selected  retirement  date in your policy is earlier  than this, you can 
still take your benefits as long as your fund value is large enough to cover the cost of paying 
the GMP 
And Avivas letter of 9 October 2015,  when  Mrs R asked for some retirement illustrations 
said When  the transfer of benefits from the company pension scheme to Aviva  took place, 
the original transfer  value  included a liability for us to pay the GMP from age 60. 
So even though Mrs R had deferred payment of her benefits by that point, she could still 
have drawn her benefits based on the information she was provided with at the time. 
But looking  at all the information Aviva provided  Mrs R I think  it was consistent in stating that 
benefits, including the GMP, would be payable  at age 60. I think it set that out in its 
information from 1991 and didnt alter its position. If there was to be a change  in Avivas 
position, following  the legislation to extend state pension ages, then I would have expected  
Aviva to have made Mrs R aware  of any changes it was looking to make.  In the absence  of 
any evidence to suggest this I think Avivas position remained the same,  and Im not 
persuaded there was any reason for Mrs R to assume she would have to wait until age 66  
to draw her benefits without penalty.  
  
Mrs R has pointed to a statement that said your  future pension  benefits include GMP rights, 
which means that the future pension benefit payable at you State Pension Age will not be 
less than the GMP. Taking  benefits earlier may be possible assuming that the fund value is 
Ref: DRN69817036sufficient to provide  the GMP at your State Pension Age. And Ive already said that Ive 
seen other  references  to the state  pension age.  So I can understand why Mrs R might have 
taken that to mean her revised  state  pension age would  apply to the GMP. But Aviva didnt 
confirm that to her and didnt make any changes to its original contract and policy  schedule  
which might  have alerted  Mrs R to any changes. 
Aviva wasnt  in a position to give Mrs R any advice on what to do when she contacted it in 
2015. So, I dont  think it was Avivas responsibility to make  her aware that she could draw 
the section 32 benefits with full GMP when she spoke with it. Mrs R acted on information she 
became aware  of about the changes to the state  pension age and her interpretation of how 
this applied to her plan. But Aviva  hadnt  suggested  she couldnt take the plan with full GMP 
at age 60, which was the same position it had adopted since  1991,  so I dont think Aviva  did 
anything wrong  here. 
Equalisation and pension  flexibility
Mrs R says shes discovered that the section 32 plan doesnt provide for a widowers 
pension, which she thinks was part of her OPS benefits. Ive carefully  considered the 
legislation Mrs R has referred  to which is guidance primarily for the trustees of contracted-
out OPS. Theres no guidance or information  which covers plans that have been transferred. 
But in any case Ive already explained that the process of calculating the loss arising from 
the transfer  which  included  any ancillary benefits   was the responsibility of the original 
adviser and the firm which carried out the redress calculation. 
However, it would  seem  that in Mrs Rs case the fund required to pay the GMP was far 
greater than the actual value of the plan. So in effect Aviva is having  to fund the shortfall 
itself which  means that, in line with its terms and conditions, no other additional benefits are 
payable other than providing the GMP, which means theres no additional tax free cash  
available from the redress part of the plan.  
Mrs R also maintains that her plan isnt part of the new flexible pensions freedoms 
legislation and therefore she doesnt  benefit  from the flexibility  that other  personal  pensions 
now do. I can understand why this might be part of Mrs Rs wider frustration about the lack of 
information and specialist advice generally available about section 32 plans. But that isnt 
Avivas fault and I think the information  its provided  is in line with its regulative requirements. 
I dont think this is a matter of Aviva  not adopting  the pension  freedoms flexibility but more a 
question of the fund not being  sufficient to pay the GMP. 
Thereby meaning  Aviva  used the entire  available  fund, as well as its own additional funding, 
to pay the income  that was guaranteed according to the terms and conditions of the plan 
after the OPS  transfer.  
 
Administration service and communication
 
Mrs R says Aviva made it unnecessarily complicated for her to take her benefits in 2018.  
She says it directed  her to seek advice  from organisations that were unable  to help her, 
provided incorrect illustrations  especially with regards to the GMP, requested information it 
already held, and provided information  about  the plan that was difficult  to understand. 
And Ive considered all these matters and the other  matters around communication very 
carefully in order to consider the impact  this had on Mrs R. I have looked  at the material  that 
Mrs R received from Aviva and I can understand why it might have been difficult  to 
understand. But Aviva would have been required to provide  the information, including the 
Ref: DRN69817037illustrations, in a format  set out by the regulator.  Im satisfied that Aviva did that and while  I 
understand Mrs R would have preferred it to be in a different format  I cant say Aviva  has 
done anything  wrong there.
Similarly with Avivas  instructions for Mrs R to seek financial advice and to contact Pension 
Wise, I can understand Mrs Rs frustrations that she wasnt  able to get the help she would 
have liked but I dont think Aviva did anything wrong  there. It had an obligation  to direct 
Mrs R to these  services   it wasnt able to give her advice itself  and I dont think it was 
responsible for whether those  organisations  were able to help Mrs R. 
A section  32 plan was only used to transfer  OPS  benefits, as an alternative to a personal 
pension. It contained  important guarantees around  the GMP. But all the information  required 
about the plan and how it worked, including when benefits could  be drawn, should have 
been provided and explained by the adviser who made the original recommendation. From 
the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Aviva  provided appropriate information about  its 
plan and directed  Mrs R to the appropriate  organisations as laid down by the regulator.
However, Aviva did make  some  errors  in its dealings  with Mrs R after November 2018. I 
think these errors may have caused a delay  in her being able to draw  benefits and also 
would have caused her some  degree of distress  and inconvenience to her overall  retirement 
planning. With regards  to any delay that was caused I can see that Aviva has acknowledged  
this and made an offer to put Mrs R back  as close to the position  shed  now be in had she 
been able to draw  her benefits, within Avivas timescales, following receipt of the quotations 
in January 2019.  
I think that was the earliest Mrs R could have received her benefits bearing in mind the 
questions she wanted answering.  So I think Avivas offer there is fair and reasonable. Mrs R 
has questioned  the offer, which she says was for a lower annuity than she was already 
receiving. But it did allow Aviva to include a backdated (missed) payment which  Mrs R may 
have considered beneficial in her situation. In any case Mrs R was free to accept this offer 
and by not agreeing she has kept herself in a better position. 
Ultimately though Aviva did make  some errors during the process. These included providing  
an incorrect quotation, sending a schedule of benefits and asking  for acceptance  after Mrs R 
had already received the tax free cash and one payment, and requesting Mrs Rs partners 
date of birth when it already held that information.  
I note Aviva has accepted  that it could have provided Mrs R with a better customer 
experience and acknowledged the mistakes that it made.  In  total its offered £300  for these 
errors. So Ive considered  the offer in the context of the disruption this caused to Mrs Rs 
retirement planning and the impact it had on her. But overall I think  the sum offered is within 
the range  of what  Id expect to see for errors such as this. So Im not going to ask Aviva to 
do any more.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mrs Rs complaint, in so much as I think Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limiteds offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should  pay any individual parts  of the total of £300 
compensation only if it hasnt already done  so. 
Ref: DRN69817038Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6981703