K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains on behalf of her mother, Mrs H. She is unhappy with the way that Royal & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with her home  insurance  claim for water damage, 
and with the settlement paid to her.
background
On 3 March 2019 Mrs H had a water leak which caused a lot of damage to her kitchen. She 
reported the claim to RSA the next day and an emergency plumber was sent out to stop the 
leak. She is elderly and has certain medical and caring needs;  she has mobility issues and in 
particular had a stairlift.  So although  she was offered accommodation  in a hotel, she and 
Ms R didnt think this was suitable. So she went to live with Ms R. RSA then arranged for 
drying contractors to attend. They  advised that strip out of damaged areas  should  take place 
and then at the next visit said the areas should be tested for any asbestos. The testing was 
arranged and asbestos was found and its removal was arranged. The contractors then 
advised removal of the kitchen appliances  and this was arranged.
The asbestos was removed and the property was declared dry on 2 April.  Ms R was in 
constant contact  with RSA and set out her unhappiness at how long the matter was taking. 
In particular her property is an hour away from her mothers. Mrs H couldnt have her carers  
there and had to change  her doctor.  She advised that they wanted a cash settlement so they 
could control the building work. A cash settlement was agreed and paid to Mrs H on 3 May.
Ms R complained about the delay in handling  the claim and the fact that no suitable  
accommodation (like a care home) was offered to Mrs H. RSA had agreed in the course of 
making the settlement that it would pay a disturbance allowance  (DA) of £10 per day for the 
time that Mrs H was out of her home up until the settlement. It also agreed  as part of the 
settlement that it would pay an accommodation  allowance of £700  per week for the three 
weeks the repairs were  estimated to take place.
After reviewing Ms Rs complaint RSA agreed  that it should have taken  more  account of 
Mrs Hs age and health conditions. It agreed  to increase the DA to £20 per day, meaning a 
further £600 would be paid. It said that it would also pay an extra £700 accommodation 
allowance to allow extra  time for the work to be completed. It also said it would pay £350 
compensation. It has paid the further amounts without prejudice to Mrs Hs further 
complaints.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said the compensation and the DA was 
appropriate. But he pointed  out that as RSA was paying the accommodation allowance of 
£700 per week whilst the repairs took place  there  was no reason why it shouldnt  pay that 
figure for the weeks  Mrs H was out of her property from the start of the claim.  So he 
proposed that RSA pay a further  four weeks at £700, a total further payment of £2,800.
RSA objected to this  it said its policies do offer alternative accommodation  whilst  a 
property isnt habitable, but Mrs H decided to stay with her daughter. Once the leak was 
fixed and asbestos  was removed the property was habitable, but due to Mrs Hs conditions  it 
agreed that she should remain  at her daughters and it would continue  to pay DA. 
However, when the repairs started  it was likely the home would  become  uninhabitable  due to 
loss of cooking facilities, which is why it offered to increase the payment to £700 a week  for 
3 weeks whilst the repairs at Mrs Hs property  were ongoing. It also made the decision to 
Ref: DRN69391072increase this by another week to ensure the repairs were completed before Mrs H moved  
home. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought RSA should  increase the 
compensation payment to £750,  but that it didnt need to pay any further  DA.
Both Ms R and RSA replied to my provisional decision. I will deal with their comments  in my 
findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
I think  there is some confusion  in this case about  the DA paid, at times  referred  to by RSA 
as an inconvenience  allowance. To be clear  such an allowance is intended to cover  extra  
expenses whilst the consumer is out of their home  or for example if they continue  to live at 
home without access to cooking  facilities.  It is paid as part of the alternative accommodation 
cover in the policy. It isnt intended as compensation for inconvenience. So whilst  I note that 
RSA has paid DA for the time Mrs H was at her daughters property and increased it. I think 
it fair to regard this as an allowance for Mrs Hs extra  expenses  whilst living there.  To be 
clear, I think  the property was uninhabitable  up until the time any repairs were completed. 
The property was stripped out and the asbestos  removed. As a part of that process  all the 
kitchen appliances  were removed. I cant see that they were  put back   the scope of repairs 
involved doing this.
I understand Ms Rs point  that the alternative  accommodation offered by RSA was 
unsuitable. But I have  to look at the situation  as it was  Mrs H opted to live with her 
daughter. That was inconvenient for her and probably involved her in extra expense (for 
which DA was paid). And as I shall set out below an award of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate. But I cant award her the £700 per week  payment for 
alternative accommodation until the settlement was agreed and paid as she never  took that 
up. 
I understand that RSA did pay Mrs H four weeks of accommodation allowance for the time 
the property was being repaired. That payment was made as part of the cash settlement. If 
Mrs H chose not to take up any alternative  accommodation during that time that was a 
matter for her. Having received a cash settlement it was up to her how she used it.
I do think that RSA failed to take account  of Mrs Hs age and her medical needs. I see that 
this was flagged  up in her notes  early in in the case. I dont accept that RSA was limited to 
offering her what it agreed was unsuitable  accommodation. Ms R has referred to the option 
of a care home. If that was an option  RSA should  have considered it, they have to take their 
policyholders needs into account.  Another option might  have  been  to look at whether there 
were any facilities it could  have provided  in respect  of Ms Rs home  which might have made 
caring for Mrs H easier.
So I think it failed Mrs H in that respect.  I understand from Ms R that Mrs H couldnt  have her 
carers, as before,  coming in on a daily basis, she had to change her doctor and had to live 
downstairs. 
Ref: DRN69391073In respect of the claim there  was a slight delay in arranging the strip out as the contractors  
didnt arrange  an asbestos test on their first visit. It was then realised that the kitchen 
appliances would need to be removed.  But water  damage cases  do take a while  to deal with 
particularly because of the need  to dry out and test for and remove any asbestos.  Bearing in 
mind that a final settlement was paid to Mrs H two months after the claim was made I dont 
think there were any substantive delays in dealing with the matter.
I note that £350  compensation was paid. In an ordinary case  that might be appropriate. But 
Mrs H was put to very serious inconvenience,  which added to the stress  felt by her in respect 
of the original claim. Ms R was also put to a lot of inconvenience; whilst  I cant  award 
compensation to her I can take account of the effect on Mrs H. I think its appropriate  to 
increase the award for distress and inconvenience  to £750. RSA should  therefore pay a 
further £400.
RSA accepted my proposed award. It said that a care home wouldnt have been comparable 
accommodation under  the policy but it would have  considered offering the cost of such  
accommodation which Mrs H could have  put towards the cost of a care home if required.
In response to that point my understanding is that a care home wasnt thought  to be an 
option in this case and as I said in my provisional  findings I have to look at the situation as it 
was. And Mrs H moved in with Ms R. I still however think  that if a care home was available  
and was the only option RSA should  have considered it in line with its obligations to consider 
its policyholders needs.
Ms R on behalf of Mrs H didnt think the proposed  award was sufficient
Neither her nor her mother had a choice on her living arrangements  from the moment the 
incident occurred.  As she previously explained  the only accommodation suitable for 
someone in her position would be a care home or staying with a member of her family, who 
was prepared to carry out the very private  and personal care she needed. Therefore, in the 
absence of care facilities, this duty fell to her with no other  alternative  being available.
I dont disagree with that point. To the extent that RSA didnt consider Mrs Hs needs 
adequately I think  adequate compensation has been  paid or proposed.
Ms R further said that once the house  had been dried out and the asbestos removed, her 
mother was still unable  to go home.
I dealt with this point in my provisional findings and agree with what  Ms R has said..
She has a very small two-bedroom house, where her office is incorporated within  her living  
room, and she works from home. But she took on the duties of an unpaid  carer for the whole 
of her mothers stay and lost income  as a result. Neither £10 nor £20 per day was anywhere 
near adequate compensation for Mrs Hs assisted living needs.
The reason  for the disturbance allowance being set at £10 per day is that it is generally 
considered adequate to compensate for the extra costs  of living  away  from home. In Mrs Hs 
case RSA agreed to double that figure.  I sympathise with Ms Rs position, but as Ive 
explained I cant award compensation to her. This was a difficult  case and Ms R clearly 
acted in her mothers best interests.  But not all costs connected to an insurance claim are 
Ref: DRN69391074recoverable. In the circumstances of this case I think RSAs  payments for DA were 
reasonable.
I further think that the compensation  Ive proposed for distress and inconvenience is 
reasonable and in line with awards we have made  in similar cases.
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay to Mrs H a 
further £400 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939107