K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bamboo Limited lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr H was given a single loan by Bamboo  in July 2018. He borrowed £4,000 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 12 monthly instalments. Shortly before the first repayment was due Mr H 
told Bamboo that he was facing financial difficulties.  Since then he has only made token 
repayments on the loan and a large  balance remains  outstanding.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although she didnt think 
the checks Bamboo had done  were sufficient, Mr H hadnt provided her with the information  
she would  need  to determine  what better checks would have discovered. So she wasnt able 
to say that the loan shouldnt have been  agreed. And therefore she didnt  think the complaint 
should be upheld,  or that Bamboo  needed to pay any compensation to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Hs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time Bamboo gave this loan to Mr H required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what  he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Bamboo had to think  about whether  repaying 
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Mr H. In practice 
this meant  that Bamboo had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr H 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words, it wasnt enough  for Bamboo to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting  its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN68437692the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr H.
Bamboo gathered  some  information from Mr H before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income,  and his normal expenditure on rent. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Mr Hs other expenditure. And it checked  his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying  to other creditors.
Mr H was entering into a significant  commitment  with Bamboo. He would need to make  
monthly repayments for a period of a year. And the credit check Bamboo received  
suggested that although Mr H wasnt heavily reliant on credit at that time, he had struggled 
to make his repayments  in the past. So I would expect that Bamboo would want to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information  about  Mr Hs financial circumstances 
before it agreed  to lend to him. I dont think that the checks  it did were enough. I think  it 
would have been proportionate for Bamboo  to independently check the true state  of Mr Hs 
finances before agreeing the loan. 
At this stage I should reflect  on the information that Mr H gave to Bamboo  about his normal 
income. He told Bamboo that his income  was £8,000 per month. That is a substantial 
income, and likely far higher than most of the customers  that applied  to Bamboo. So I think it 
might have caused the lender to check further. Mr H says that the amount of income hed 
declared was an error  he says he meant  to enter  £800. I have no way of knowing whether 
that is true, but I have noted that around two weeks later Mr H asked Bamboo for a further  
loan. And given the amount he asked  for, and what  he said about  his income, I do have 
questions about  whether  Mr H deliberately misled the lender when he first asked for the 
loan. But given I think Bamboo should  have done  better checks, verifying Mr Hs income, 
I dont need to deliberate on that matter  further.
But although  I dont  think the checks Bamboo did before agreeing  the loan were sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt mean that Mr Hs complaint should succeed. Id also need  to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown Bamboo that 
Mr H couldnt sustainably  afford the repayments. We asked Mr H to provide us with evidence 
of his financial circumstances  at the time he applied for the loan, so we could see what 
information Bamboo shouldve taken into account  before agreeing  to lend to him. And given 
the current circumstances our adjudicator offered to help Mr H with obtaining copies of his 
bank statements from the time. But Mr H has failed to even provide us with details  of his 
account, or an explanation why, let alone evidence of his financial circumstances.
Ref: DRN68437693Our adjudicator explained why we need  the information and the likely consequences  of us 
not receiving it. Despite that, Mr H still hasnt  given us what we asked for. So, I havent  been 
able to get a picture of what his financial circumstances  were  like at the relevant time. That 
means I cant say that if Bamboo had completed  sufficient  checks it wouldve found that 
Mr H couldnt afford  to repay the loans. So I am not able to say that Bamboo has done 
anything wrong  here.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H but I think  it is reasonable for 
Bamboo to expect him to repay  what he has borrowed. I would  remind  Bamboo that it should 
continue to treat Mr H sympathetically when discussing the repayment of the loan with Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6843769