K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited turned down her 
claim under her pet insurance  policy.
Mr S has brought the complaint on his wife Mrs Ss behalf. For ease Ill refer to all comments  
as being from Mrs S. 
My references to Red Sands include its agent.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said was likely to uphold this complaint. I include an extract  from my decision 
here:
In mid-August 2018 Mrs S took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Red Sands to cover  
her cat. The policys start date was 5 September 2018. I understand shed previously held 
pet insurance with another provider.  
In October  2018 Mrs Ss cat was struggling to urinate and received  emergency treatment for 
a blocked bladder.  She claimed  the costs under her policy  with Red Sands. 
Red Sands  turned down the claim. It said Mrs Ss cat had been treated for bladder infections 
both in 2015 and early  August 2018, when hed struggled to urinate.  Red Sands said these 
earlier clinical signs were the same as for the blocked bladder. It said this meant  the 
condition was pre-existing  and so the claim was not covered under the policy.  Red Sands 
also said it would exclude all claims with respect  to the urinary system, backdated to the 
policys September 2018 start date. 
Mrs S didnt agree and provided supporting evidence from her vet. But Red Sands wouldnt 
change its position  so she came to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and he spoke to Mrs Ss vet. He ultimately thought 
Red Sands  had made a fair claims decision  so he didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S didnt  
agree. She argues  that the fact her cat had earlier  bladder infections shouldnt  mean  that a 
blocked bladder claim isnt covered. The complaints come  to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  my reasons. 
The Red Sands policy doesnt cover any pre-existing conditions, being  an illness that had 
the same  diagnosis or the same  clinical  signs as an illness or clinical signs  the pet had 
before the policys start (commencement) date. This type of pre-existing condition  
exclusion is common in pet insurance and we dont consider it unreasonable. But I need to 
decide if Red Sands applied  its policy terms fairly. 
Ref: DRN66563442Red Sands  is relying on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim. Its for Red 
Sands to show, on balance, that the cats October  2018 blocked bladder showed the same 
clinical signs  as for the earlier bladder infections  noted in August 2018 and in 2015.
Ive looked at the veterinary evidence:
In 2015  the cat had been using the litter tray frequently.  The vet noted  that as the 
bladder was not readily palpable a diagnosis of cystitis was assumed rather  than a 
blockage. (Cystitis is inflammation of the bladder, usually caused  by an infection). At 
the time of diagnosis the note says the vet advised of risk of blockage, and the need 
to treat urinary  issues as urgent. The vet prescribed anti-biotic  and anti-inflammatory 
medication, and the cat wasnt  seen again.
In early August  2018 Mrs Ss cat had been  straining to pee with very little coming 
out since coming back from the cattery the previous  week.  The vet said that urinary 
issues in a male cat are considered  an emergency  and asked  Mrs S to bring  the cat 
in. The vet noted the cat wasnt  unwell or off his food. The vet examined the cat and 
noted the bladder was empty and non painful. The vet prescribed anti-inflammatory 
medication, and said the cat should be seen again if he didnt improve, possibly at 
the emergency vet that evening. The vet discussed the ddx (differential diagnoses); 
that is, the various conditions that could  have caused the straining to urinate. 
In early October 2018 that Mrs S realised her cat wasnt able to urinate and was 
vocalising in pain.  The emergency vet advised this could be a urinary  tract infection 
(UTI) or a blocked bladder so the cat should be seen.  The vet noted that the cat had 
had a UTI before  which had cleared up with medication, and had been in good health  
prior to that day.
On examination the emergency vet noted  the cats bladder was large and firm and 
diagnosed a blocked bladder. The vet explained the possible  causes  for this, and that 
the cat should be admitted for tests and a catheter to clear  the blockage.  The vet said 
that as Mrs S had changed insurer she should check whether the cat would  be 
covered as hed had a previous problem with urination.
 Under general anaesthetic  the emergency  vet removed grit from the cats urethra. 
The vet found  struvite crystals in his urine,  and advised  x-rays to rule out bladder 
stones. 
At his usual vet the cat was x-rayed under general anaesthetic and the vet ruled out 
bladder stones. The bladder was examined  again and had no obvious urinary  
blockage. The vet suggested a urinary diet and gave the cat anti-inflammatory 
medication and medication  to control  muscle spasms.   
After Red Sands rejected the claim  as pre-existing Mrs Ss vet has sent a supporting letter.  
In that letter  the vet says that in August  2018  the cat had been seen as hed been in and out 
of his litter tray and passing  only small amounts  of urine. On examination his bladder was 
empty and there was no sign of urinary obstruction. He was prescribed anti-inflammatory 
medication and his symptoms resolved. In October 2018 he was seen with urethral 
obstruction and was treated for this. The vet said the clinical  signs were  not the same  as 
those in August  2018.
Mrs Ss vet has told our investigator that in October  2018 the bladder was blocked due to 
crystals forming  in the cats urethra. The vet explained that cystitis is simply an inflammation. 
The mention  in the 2015 notes was about  other possible risks (including blockage).  
Mrs Ss vet has clearly said that the October  2018 bladder blockage  was due to crystals (and 
I note that grit was removed from the cats urethra under general anaesthetic). Its possible 
Ref: DRN66563443an earlier urinary infection is a risk factor for a later blocked urethra. But importantly Mrs Ss 
vet has clearly said that the clinical  signs  for the October 2018 were different  from the 2015  
and August 2018 infections. In particular  the August 2018 examination  showed  that the cats 
bladder was empty.  In 2015 and August 2015 the cat had struggled to urinate, but thats also 
a symptom or clinical sign of cystitis. Both infections  cleared  up with medication.
As Mrs Ss vet has seen  and treated the cat I place  some weight on her evidence. Shes 
clearly said the October 2018 clinical signs of illness were different from the ones shown  
before the policy started.  The claim forms show the illness started  on 3 October 2018. 
The emergency vet noted the earlier UTI when taking the clinical history for the cat. I dont 
think this means that the UTI was the same illness as for the blocked bladder.  The vets 
comment about Mrs S having changed  insurer was a general observation about common  
insurance exclusions and I cant see that it was based on any direct knowledge of the terms 
of Mrs Ss policy with Red Sands. The emergency  vet didnt say that the 2015 UTI or the 
August 2018 UTI was the same illness as the October 2018 illness.  
Also Ive taken into account  that Mrs S knew her cat had experienced two bladder  infections, 
one of those being in the month before  the Red Sands policy  started. But she says, and 
I accept, that she reasonably believed that the cats infection had been treated and resolved 
at the time she took out the Red Sands policy. Thats supported  by the veterinary evidence.  
Shed not taken the cat back  to the vet and she reported to the emergency vet that the cat 
had been in good health. I also accept Mrs Ss explanation that she simply wouldnt have 
moved her insurance cover from her existing provider to Red Sands had she thought her cat 
had an ongoing  illness. 
Mrs S was aware that if her cat couldnt  urinate this could be a symptom of a blocked 
bladder. She was told this because this is a risk for any male cat, and so any urinary  
problem should  be urgently investigated  because of the serious implications for the cat. The 
vet has explained  that this doesnt mean the cat had a blocked bladder  in 2015 or in August 
2018, and the fact his bladder wasnt palpable is evidence  of that. Also,  any blocked bladder 
is an emergency. The medication the cat was prescribed in 2015  and in August 2015 cleared 
the inflammation and any infection. 
So I dont  currently consider that Red Sands has shown it can rely on the pre-existing 
condition exclusion.  I intend to require  it to pay Mrs Ss claim and continuation claim for the 
blocked bladder. 
Red Sands  has also applied an exclusion for all claims with respect to the urinary  system, 
and backdated  this exclusion to the policys 5 September 2018 start date. As Mrs S took out 
a lifetime policy wed only consider it fair for Red Sands to place a retrospective exclusion on 
the policy from the start date if it could show it asked her clear questions at the time she 
applied for the policy and that she failed to take reasonable care in answering them.
Mrs S applied for the policy  through a comparison website. Ive seen a list of assumptions  or 
presumptions but Ive not seen any evidence that Red Sands asked her clear questions 
before she took out the policy and that she didnt answer them with reasonable care. So 
I intend to require Red Sands to remove the urinary  system exclusion.  It will not be entitled 
to reapply the exclusion at the policys renewal  date.
Ref: DRN66563444responses
Mrs S responded to say she was delighted with my provisional decision and accepted  it in 
full. 
Red Sands  didnt agree with my provisional decision. It referred to my summary of the 
veterinary evidence (above) and in particular the first two bullet points. It said the incidents  
described there were  before the policys start date and so would be deemed  as pre-existing 
and not covered under the policy. 
Red Sands  has also said that if it had been informed of the cats history  when the policy was 
taken out then it would have applied  the exclusion for the urinary system to the policy. In 
turn, the blocked bladder claim would  have fallen under this exclusion and correctly declined  
under the policys  terms and conditions. The cats condition would not have to be linked to 
the earlier conditions.  Id referred to these previous conditions  in my decision and so the 
claim had been  correctly declined and the correct exclusion applied to the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Red Sands comments but they dont change my decision that this 
complaint should  be upheld  for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision and here.
Mrs Ss vet has clearly said the clinical signs shown  by the cat before the policy  started were 
not the same as those for the blocked bladder.  In particular, the vet said the cats bladder  
had been examined and was empty and non-painful. The cat had experienced cystitis, but 
the vet clearly said that the clinical signs were different from the clinical  signs  for the blocked 
bladder. So I dont  consider  Red Sands has shown  that the cats claim for a blocked bladder  
was a pre-existing condition.
I dont agree Red Sands was entitled to decline the claim under the retrospective exclusion 
that it applied  for all claims with respect  to the urinary system. Red Sands hasnt shown that 
it asked Mrs S clear questions before she took out the policy and that she failed to answer 
them with reasonable care. It was required to do this in order  to show that it could fairly  apply 
an exclusion  and back-date it to the policys start date.  So it cant  rely on this exclusion to 
decline the claim and must remove it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold 
this complaint. Within  28 days of the date we tell it Mrs S has accepted this final decision 
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay her claim and continuation 
claim for her cats blocked bladder,  subject  to the policy limit, excess  and co-payment. Red 
Sands has seen evidence that Mrs S has paid her vets bills so it must add interest* to the 
claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
I also require Red Sands to remove the policy exclusion for all claims with respect  to the 
urinary system that it applied and backdated  to the policys start date. Red Sands will not be 
entitled to reapply the exclusion at the lifetime policys  renewal date.
Ref: DRN66563445Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs S how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mrs S a 
certificate showing this if Mrs S asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6656344