K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains about a number of charges raised  by Ald Automotive Limited following a hire
agreement.
Background
Mr S took out a hire agreement with Ald for a new car. At the end of the agreed hire period
the business and Mr S agreed to a late hire rolling extension  period charged at a daily rate.
He complains when  he returned the car, Ald charged him for a dent in the near side left wing
and damage to the left front and back right alloy wheels. The total charged for the damage to
the two alloys was £126. The charge for the wing damage was £206.
They also charged  for two additional  days with the car that Mr S doesnt agree he should be
charged for. Mr S says he called Ald and asked for the car to be collected on the 23 October
2017 and it wasnt  collected until the 25 October  2017  and on this basis he shouldnt have
to pay for the additional two days.  He also complains that he took a day off of work to stay in
and wait for the collection.
Mr S complained to Ald. In his complaint he said that he asked for the car to be picked up
but the business didnt  arrange collection until later that week.  He also said the collections
agent told him the car was in good condition when  it was picked  up, and he wasnt  shown
the second page of the collection  report that details the damage.  Based on this, he didnt
think he should be charged any additional  money. Mr S also said the cost Ald had quoted to
repair the damage to the alloys was excessive.
In Alds response to Mr S, they said 
Mr Ss contract states that there is a five day period in which they will collect  the car;
The damage to the alloys and wing is outside of what the British Vehicle Rental and
            Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide  lists as fair wear  and tear; and
The damage was present  on inspection and Mr S signed against the collection form
            confirming this.
Ald took pictures  to show both issues, once when the car was collected and later when the
car was returned to the garage. It told Mr S that both areas of damage  need to be repaired in
line with the agreement.
Mr S remained unhappy,  so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. She didnt
find that Ald had been unreasonable when charging  Mr S for the damage to the car. She
said the collection report confirms there  were  two dents. And the alloys  were  damaged  and
these fall outside of the BVLAs  guidance on fair wear and tear. She went  on to say that Ald
had made  Mr S reasonably aware  of the five working day notice period he needed to give
Ald to collect the car. And that Ald had acted  fairly  by collecting the car within the timeframe.
Mr S didnt agree and raised the following points
He wasnt shown  the list of damages when the car was collected;
The person  collecting the car said it was in fantastic condition other than some
            scrubs on one wheel;
Ref: DRN60971962The photos are not clear;
The car was due to be collected on the Monday, but the collection didnt take place
            until the Wednesday.  He took a day off of work to wait in for the collection; and
The charges  for the damage were  excessive.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view, so Mr S asked for the complaint to
be passed to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2019. This is what  I said  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive seen from
both parties, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why -
There are a number of points I need  to address in this complaint, I will set them out
individually.
The BVRLA has produced  industry guidance to help determine what a finance  company can
charge for when  a car is returned. This is the starting point  as it represents good practice
across the industry.  Ive taken this into account when Ive decided  whether Ald has acted
fairly and reasonably in this case.
The hire agreement also says that Ald can charge for damage outside  of fair wear and tear.
And it refers  to the BVRLA guidance  as a way to judge what is fair wear and tear.
Damage to the two alloy wheels
The BVLA guide says that dents and holes to wheel rims are not acceptable  and scuffs
totalling more  than 50mm on the circumference of the wheel are also not acceptable. I
understand Mr S says that the agent told him the car was in good  condition-  but its clear
from the pictures provided by Ald at collection  that there was damage to the two alloys it has
highlighted. The pictures taken later at the appraisal inspection show  closer images and it is
clear that there is a dent in one alloy and the other has a scruff well exceeding 50mm.
I understand Mr S says he didnt see a copy of the report that was completed.  But it also
doesnt appear Mr S is denying that the wheels had damage when the car was collected.  He
mentions a number  of times that the wheels had scrubs. Having considered the
information supplied  by both parties,  Im persuaded the alloys were damaged before the car
was collected  and Im satisfied they dont meet the criteria set out by the BVRLA for fair wear
and tear. On this basis I find it fair that Ald charge Mr S for the repairs.
Mr S says that the charges  for the repairs are excessive  but he also hasnt  sent any
information to show the repairs could have  been  completed for a lower  cost. The total cost
for the repairs to the two alloys is £126   this appears in line with what  I would expect the
cost to be.
Damage to near side left wing
The BVRLA guide allows for dents of up to 10mm  in diameter as fair wear and tear. This
information can also be found in the terms and conditions of Mr Ss hire agreement.
Ald initially  noted  damage  to the near side wing on the collection  report. Ald then took more
Ref: DRN60971963detailed pictures  to evidence the damage during the appraisal report. Based on the pictures,
it is clear that the dent is well over the 10mm allowance.
Mr S signed  against  a collection report that documented the below 
While every attempt is made to identify all damage  on collection,  on occasion, weather, light
or other conditions may make this impossible. All vehicles are inspected  on return to the
owner and additional damage  will be promptly notified.
So although  the level of detail recorded at the first collection doesnt show  the full extent of
the damage, Im satisfied that Ald could later complete a further  inspection  and a more
detailed inspection report. On this basis I find the damage does fall outside of fair wear  and
tear and Im satisfied  Ald can charge Mr S for the repair  to the wing of the car.
Additional two days hire
When the late hire was arranged Ald sent an email on 21 August detailing the daily cost and
instructions on how to end the late hire and arrange collection  part of that said five working
days notice was needed to book a collection.  I can see Mr S received this and appeared to
have read it as he wrote back  to acknowledge and say he agreed  to the terms of the late
hire.
Mr S then called on the 20 October to arrange  collection  and the business  arranged pick up
on the 25 October  which was within  5 working  days of when he called. So on the face of it
appears the charges were clearly  set out and Ald acted fairly in the time it collected  in
accordance with what it had agreed  with Mr S in advance.
Mr S has complained that he took a day off work  on the 23 October as this is when  he
arranged for the car to be collected.  I cant find anything in the information or on the call that
suggests the car would  be picked up on the 23 October. Within the call the operator does
suggest the car will be collected on the 24 October, but this is corrected  in the email sent to
Mr S after the call. So I although the operator may have initially led Mr S to believe the car
would be collected  on the 24 October, I dont  find this had an impact on Mr S and I wont be
asking it to pay any compensation.
Mr S has said that he is unhappy with the letters sent by Ald chasing payment. I can see that
the letters were  sent before Ald had investigated  and provided  a response on Mr Ss
complaint. I can understand Mr Ss concerns that they were asking him to pay an amount he
didnt think he owed   but as Ive explained  above,  I satisfied  the charges applied  and
communicated in these  letters  to Mr S by Ald are fair.
responses to my provisional  decision  
ALD accepted my provisional decision.  
Mr S said
He doesnt  agree the damage  was present when the car was collected  and it should  
have been identified if it was beyond the BVRLA guidance. 
The person  said the car was in the best of condition and Mr S signed the collection 
sheet that had no mention of claims.  
Ref: DRN60971964Mr S cancelled  the insurance for the car on the Saturday after calling on Friday 20 
October. The appointment was booked  on Monday and this cannot be disputed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says the damage wasnt  present when the car was collected. But Ive seen the 
collection note that does detail the damage. The later report  detailed the extent of the 
damage, but the information to show it was there had already been noted.  
Mr S says he signed a collection  report that doesnt detail how the business will assess  and 
charge for damage. The collection  driver wouldnt have noted  what  they would be charging  
Mr S for at the point of collection, as a further inspection is completed  once the car is 
returned. This was detailed in full in the collection email sent to Mr S. It says that the 
damage recorded by the collection driver  is not his or her recommendation to whether 
damages should be charged for or not. It goes  on to say that a more detailed inspection  will 
be carried out at an inspection centre  once  the car is returned. 
 
I understand Mr S says that he made two calls to Ald, one on 20 October and then again on 
23 October. He says he had to make a further  call when the car wasnt collected. Ald have 
sent us the call that it says it received on 20 October, but can find no further calls made on 
23 October.  
Ive listened to the call recording that we do have and in that call Mr S asks for the car to be 
collected 24 October.  I understand  Mr S says this was the second  call and he only made  this 
when the car wasnt collected - but had this been  the case, I find it more likely than not that 
he would  have mentioned that he had waited in and no one had collected  the car. After all, 
this forms part of his complaint.  There is nothing within the call that leads me to believe Mr S 
had called Ald previously.  
In the call, Mr S is also told that the collections team would email  him once the collection is 
booked. In the email confirmation  sent to Mr S on 23 October, Ald confirmed  the car would 
be collected on 25 October. So although Mr S asked for the car to be collected on 24 
October and it was in fact collected on 25 October, I dont find Mr S suffered any detriment.  
Mr S was given notice of the collection date in advance. 
Mr S has said that he wasnt told that he would need  to give 5 days notice for collection.  Ald 
has provided the email  sent to Mr S on 21 August  which  details this. Mr S also responded to 
this email to say that he agreed to the terms of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60971965
Ref: DRN6097196