K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony  Feeney  Financial  Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plans into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr G to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Mr Gs complaint  is made, on his behalf, by his representative. 
background
Mr G was put in touch with AFFS in 2013 to talk about his pension  arrangements.  An adviser 
from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  AFFS advised Mr G to transfer some 
of his existing  pension plans into a SIPP. This was so he could then invest  in store pods, an 
unregulated investment. 
I understand that in 2013 Mr G had existing  personal pension plans with three  different 
providers. Ill refer to these providers as P, R and S respectively. The combined value of 
these three  plans was just under  £34,000. At the end of November 2013, around  £23,400  
was transferred from S to the SIPP. A week later just under £10,200  was transferred to the 
SIPP from R. The following week £285 was transferred  from P. 
In January 2014, £18,750 from the SIPP was invested in store  pods. In April 2014 around 
£13,345 was invested in a Nucleus portfolio. But it seems the store  pods investment is now 
illiquid. Mr G is worried hes lost the value of his investment. 
So in August 2016 he complained, via his representative, to AFFS about  the advice hed 
received. In brief, Mr G said: the advice was unsuitable; AFFS hadnt followed the relevant 
rules and regulations;  the fact find didnt accurately establish Mr Gs financial position  or 
required retirement income; AFFS wrongly described Mr G as an experienced investor while  
also saying he had limited  knowledge of investments;  it wasnt suitable to transfer  to an 
arrangement where the charges were higher than he had been paying; and AFFS 
recommended not to transfer the pension with R to the SIPP but this still went  ahead. Mr G 
wants compensation for the money he says hes lost. 
It doesnt seem that AFFS responded to Mr Gs complaint. Ive not been  provided with a 
copy of any complaint response  letter. And AFFS didnt include a copy of any complaint 
response letter with the rest of the information  it gave us about Mr G. 
So Mr G brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. The adjudicator said the risks associated with 
investing in store pods made  it unsuitable.  He didnt think  Mr G fully understood the risks 
involved. The adjudicator also noted that AFFS recommended  that Mr Gs pension with R 
shouldnt be transferred to the SIPP. But there  were  no details or reasons why this transfer  
still went ahead.  The adjudicator then set out how he thought AFFS needed to put things 
right. 
Soon after the adjudicator issued his view, AFFS appointed a new representative.  A copy  of 
the view was also given  to the new representative. But neither AFFS nor its representative 
responded to the adjudicators view. So this case has been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN69080032my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 13 June  2019. In it, I explained that Id considered all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  to uphold this complaint. But I 
thought Mr G should be compensated slightly differently to the way set out by our 
adjudicator. Ive detailed that below. I also explained  why I was upholding this complaint. 
I pointed out that I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far less detail and in 
my own words. I said I wasnt  going to respond  to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy was intended by this. Instead, Id focussed on what  I thought was 
the key issue  here: was AFFS  advice to Mr G to transfer his existing pensions to a SIPP 
suitable? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If there was something  I hadnt mentioned, it wasnt  because Id ignored it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I went on to say that the rules that AFFS  had to follow are set out in the regulators 
handbook. The advice given to Mr G needed  to take into account the relevant rules. The 
regulations required  the advice given  to Mr G to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get 
enough information about his circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr G, signed  by him in July 2013. This recorded  some of his 
personal circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included. For instance, it didnt include 
Mr Gs outgoings, or if he had any assets, savings or other investments other than his 
existing pension plans.  The fact find stated that Mr G owned his own property. But it didnt 
record the value  of the property, if it was jointly owned or if it was mortgaged.  
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest In more specialised stock-market  linked Investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment values  will fluctuate according  to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
Underneath this is a hand written note:
Client wants to set goals for himself and understands the need to look at taking a look at 
alternative investments  to achieve this.
The following  was also ticked:
Although  I have made infrequent investments over the years I have relatively little 
knowledge of the workings  of investment markets and, in particular, the relationship between 
risk and reward.
This was also followed  by another handwritten note:
Ref: DRN69080033Client has little knowledge of investment markets, but owns  his own home and relates  this 
to investing in commercial  property.
But there was no detail on how Mr Gs attitude to risk was assessed.  The available  evidence 
pointed to him having very limited investment knowledge, if any at all. Mr G certainly didnt 
seem to have invested in high risk speculative products  before. Other than his existing 
pensions and being a homeowner, there was no indication he had any other investments 
whatsoever. 
Mr Gs attitude  to risk was contradicted by another section in the fact find. This recorded that 
Mr Gs pension benefits were a significant  proportion of his financial wealth and he didnt 
want to take unnecessary risks. So I wasnt satisfied his attitude  to risk was adventurous. 
But I was satisfied that with Mr Gs lack of investment experience, he was relying on AFFS to 
give him suitable advice. Whatever his actual attitude to risk was, it was also important  for 
AFFS to look at Mr Gs capacity to actually take that risk. I could see from the fact find that 
Mr Gs annual income was around  £16,000. Given his modest income  and apparent lack of 
any other savings, I thought Mr Gs capacity  for investment  to go down, or be lost 
completely, was low. 
In a section which asked if Mr G was intending to invest in an unregulated or alternative 
investment, the answer Store First / Alternative Investment was given. This section went  on 
to say that Mr G preferred  this type of investment because of the guaranteed 8% growth  
negotiating for years  3,4,5,6.  But it wasnt  clear  to me what  this guarantee  related to. And 
given Mr Gs lack of investment experience, it was also not clear to me how this preference  
for store pods was reached. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  I assumed this was provided to Mr G after the 
fact find was completed. The copy  Id seen wasnt dated. It said Mr G especially liked the 
control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active approach  in choosing 
what he deemed were suitable investments rather than the traditional funds in his existing 
plans. 
The investment strategy section stated Mr G sought advice from AFFS about the intention of 
investing in commercial property, storage pods in particular. It said he hadnt sought  advice 
about the suitability of this investment and had stated he was an experienced investor  who 
understood the additional risks associated  with such an investment. But Mr Gs level of 
experience here was directly contradicted by the fact find as outlined above.  
The report  said AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  
some of the risks involved. This included investing  in a single undertaking or having one 
investment as a large part of Mr Gs pension assets bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Gs fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. I could  see that some  four months after the 
transfers took place,  AFFS  did recommend that Mr G should  make an additional investment 
in a Nucleus portfolio. This was for around  £13,345.  
Ref: DRN69080034The advice from AFFS to invest  in the Nucleus portfolio  listed  Mr G as a professional client.  
Clearly, with his lack of investment experience, Mr G was far from being a professional 
client. 
The report  also recommended that Mr G didnt transfer his pension with R to the SIPP. This 
was because this pension had a guaranteed  value at retirement that AFFS felt couldnt be 
matched by an alternative plan. But this transfer  still went ahead. AFFS hadnt given us any 
details of why this happened  despite  its recommendation to the contrary.  There  was also 
nothing in the available evidence that suggested Mr G was an insistent client. 
I went on to say that while dealing with this complaint, I was very aware that the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services  Authority, 
issued alerts about advising on pension transfers. These dealt with transfers to invest 
pension funds into unregulated products through a SIPP.  One of these was published in 
early January 2013, some months  before  the advice given by AFFS. Another one was 
issued in April 2014. These alerts  didnt change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, 
they simply re-stated the principles that were already  in place when AFFS  advised  Mr G. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating. 
I was satisfied it wasnt possible for AFFS to advise  Mr G on the suitability of the SIPP 
without also considering how he planned to invest. It was very clear  to me that AFFS knew  
all along that Mr G intended to invest in store pods.  With this in mind, I didnt think  it was 
suitable to advise Mr G to transfer his existing pensions into a SIPP  to allow  him to make this 
investment. 
AFFS said it did set out some risks of investing in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of
unnoccupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees,  service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
Ref: DRN69080035You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
As you wish to potentially take 25% tax free cash  in the next 12 months you should 
ensure that at least 25% of your funds are held in liquid  assets so that this payment 
can be made when  required. 
I pointed out here that the second  point states that after the first two years, this is no 
guarantee of occupancy  or rate of return.  This directly contradicted why Mr G was 
supposedly interested in this investment as stated on the fact find. That is the guaranteed 
8% growth negotiating  for years 3,4,5,6.  
As Id said above,  the report went on to say: I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I didnt think this went far enough. There  was no warning to Mr G 
that all of his investment  was potentially at risk, even though  the fact find indicated this was 
important to him and he didnt want  to take unnecessary risks. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I thought  it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  
with Mr Gs low capacity for loss. The available evidence didnt show me that Mr G was fully 
aware of the risks involved in investing  in store  pods. I was satisfied the investment wasnt 
suitable for him  and thats  what AFFS should  have told him. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also didnt think transferring Mr Gs existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. On the fact find, Mr G was asked how happy  he was 
with the level of charges on his current pension plan. On a scale  of one to five, with one 
being not at all, and five being  very, an answer  of one was given. 
But with the SIPP, Mr G had to pay £1,200 to AFFS, initial  scheme fees of £1,005.95 and 
solicitors fees of £571. These were  on top of the annual  scheme fee. I was surprised AFFS 
didnt directly compare  these charges with those on the Mr Gs existing plans. 
Generally, SIPP  charges  are higher than personal pension  plan charges, especially for a 
modest pension pot like Mr Gs. So it seemed very likely that if Mr G was unhappy with his 
plan charges, transferring to the SIPP wouldnt have improved this. It would only increase 
what he needed to pay. 
I thought the extra  charges normally associated with a SIPP  werent justified. I thought  
suitable advice  should have been  not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been  given, I 
didnt see any reason why Mr G would have transferred to the SIPP  and made that 
investment. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr G wanted  to achieve capital growth with a small risk to his 
capital. But my thoughts  were slightly different.  Based on the available  evidence I was 
satisfied a realistic assessment of Mr Gs attitude would have been balanced, or medium. I 
Ref: DRN69080036thought he wanted his pension to grow and he was willing to take some  risk. He also wanted  
to be able to take some  of his tax free cash entitlement. 
I could see that Mr G wanted to buy some  specific leisure equipment for him and one of his 
adult sons. Given  his personal circumstances, which I didnt detail to avoid identifying  Mr G, I 
was satisfied this was important to him. I was also satisfied a pension plan that allowed him 
to access his tax free cash  when he reached  age 55 the next year would  have been  suitable 
for his needs.
fair compensation
I said my aim is to put Mr G into the position  he would probably now be in if he had been 
given suitable  advice. I thought Mr G would  have invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done, but I was satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Gs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  AFFS do?
 
To compensate Mr G fairly, AFFS must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value , there  is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the 
actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss, AFFS should  pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if 
it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
I think its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Gs pension  plan. If this 
is the case, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  I think Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
AFFS should pay Mr G £300 for the disruption caused to his retirement  planning. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple  
format. 
AFFS should add interest  as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr G how much  has been  taken  
off. AFFS should give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN69080037investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it couldnt be readily  sold on the open market)  as in this case.  
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. AFFS 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above. 
If AFFS is unable to buy the investment, AFFS may want  Mr G to provide an undertaking to 
pay AFFS any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. AFFS will need  to meet  any costs  in drawing up the undertaking. 
I think its very likely  M G will have to maintain  the SIPP for a period of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay M G five years  worth 
of SIPP  fees to compensate him for these costs.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
Any additional sum that Mr G paid into the investment should be added to the fair value  
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
Ref: DRN69080038why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Gs circumstances and risk attitude.  
I then gave all parties  two weeks to raise  any further  points if they wished to do so. Mr Gs 
representative confirmed  it had received my provisional decision. It didnt raise any further  
points. AFFS told our adjudicator it wasnt going to respond to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as no additional 
points have been raised, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings  and 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr G as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6908003