K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains Cash On Go Limited  trading as Peachy.co.uk (Peachy)  lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr H took 5 loans  with Peachy between December 2014 and November  2016.  Ive included 
some of the information  weve  received  about  these loans in the table below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest   
Repayment
1 03/12/2014 31/12/2014 1 £100 £128.00
2 13/01/2015 29/01/2015 1 £150 £169.20
3 02/03/2015 29/02/2016 12 £500 £86.10
4 21/06/2016 31/10/2016 6 £250 £92.08
5 03/11/2016 13/01/2017 3 £250 £132.34
Our adjudicator reviewed  Mr Hs complaint and she didnt think  loans 3 and 4 shouldve been 
given because the evidence suggested he was having problems managing his money. And 
by loan 5, the adjudicator thought a pattern of lending had developed which  meant Peachy 
shouldnt have given  him this loan as well.   
Mr H appears  to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Peachy disagreed with the adjudicator because it didnt know what  additional checks it ought 
to have carried out before loan 3 was granted because up to this point Mr H had a positive 
repayment history. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been referred to 
me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN61248532the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H appears  to have accepted the adjudicators findings and peachy  hasnt  disagreed that it 
was wrong to have  provide loans 1 and 2. So it seems that these  loans are no longer in 
dispute and so I no longer think that I need  to make a finding about this lending. But I have 
kept these loans in mind  when thinking  about  the overall lending  relationship  between  
Peachy and Mr H. 
For loan 3, Mr H declared a monthly income of £2,907 with monthly expenditure of around  
£2,056. So this would have indicated that the loan repayments (around  £86 per month) were  
affordable. By this point though there  was a significant increase in the level of lending  to 
£500. And the loan was lent within a few weeks  of loan 2 having been repaid.  
Loan 3 was the largest loan to date and was due to be repaid over 12 months,  which is a 
fairly long period of time in this context. Considering this all together,  I think  Peachy should  
have carried out a full review  of Mr Hs circumstances and sought to verify the information 
hed given about his income and expenditure, in  order to satisfy  itself that the repayments  
would be sustainable  for Mr H over the whole term of the loan.  
To do this Peachy  couldve asked to see Mr Hs bank statements,  copies  of payslips and bill 
payments or completed a credit check. Mr H has provided this Service with his bank 
statements and his credit  file which Ive used to see what a proportionate check may have 
shown Peachy. 
From what  Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances, I think its clear he was having problems
managing his money. It appears he was struggling to repay previous short term lending 
commitments from 2012 to 2014. At this point Mr H had three short  term loans with other  
Ref: DRN61248533lenders which  were in arrears. And hed needed to set up a repayment plan for outstanding 
financial commitments. It seems Mr H was also relying on another lender to support his 
regular living expenses  and financial  commitments around the time of loan 3. 
I think, therefore, from a more detailed review of Mr Hs circumstances, it should  have been  
clear that it wasnt responsible to lend him loan 3 and any later loans.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Peachys lending history  with Mr H, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  Peachy  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Peachy should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Peachy ought to have realised Mr Hs was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken  out 6 loans  within 23 months  and Mr H had been 
indebted to Peachy  for most of this time. So Peachy ought to have realised  it was 
more likely than not Mr H was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Hs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £100 and loan six was for £250.   At this point Peachy ought 
to have known  that Mr H was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need.
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Peachy.  Loan  six was 
taken out 23 months after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr H had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Peachy over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Peachy continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Hs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him/her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 3 - 5 and Peachy should  put things right.
Putting things  right
So to put things right Peachy should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards  interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.
Ref: DRN61248534B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Mr H the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse  information  it has recorded on Mr Hs credit  file in relation to loans 3 
and 4. The overall pattern of borrowing for loan 5 means any information recorded about it is 
adverse, so this should be removed entirely from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to deduct tax from this interest. Peachy should 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im partly  upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Cash On Go Limited should put things right for Mr H as set out above.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6124853