K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to deal with a building warranty 
claim under a particular  section of the policy.
background
Mr G made  a claim to Amtrust after part of his roof broke off. Amtrust said it would deal with 
the claim under section  3.3 of the policy. Mr G disagreed with Amtrusts decision, and 
thought the claim  ought to be dealt with under  section 3.5 of the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  it was appropriate 
for Amtrust  to deal with the claim under  section  3.3. She also thought  an exclusion would 
apply under section  3.5, which meant  the claim couldnt be dealt with under that section.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the matter has been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Gs certificate  of insurance explains theres  a £1,000 excess (plus  indexation)  payable  
under section 3.3. However, no excess is payable under section 3.5. Its for this reason that 
he would  like the claim dealt with under section 3.5.
Ive therefore  considered  both sections of the policy, in order to decide whether Amtrust has 
chosen to deal with the claim  under the appropriate section. 
Section 3.3 says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to 
the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect  of: 
1) The cost of complete or partial  rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which  has 
been affected by Major Damage provided  always that the liability of the Underwriter does not 
exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding  each  Housing Unit to its original specification
Major Damage is defined as:
a) Destruction  of or physical damage  to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Insurance has been  issued  by the Underwriter.
b) A condition requiring  immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction  of or 
physical damage  to any portion of the Housing Unit for which  a Certificate  of Insurance has 
been issued by the Underwriter.
in either  case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials  or  components  of;
 the Structure; or
 the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope which  is first discovered during the 
Structural Insurance Period.
Ref: DRN63611612Section 3.5 says:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Structural Insurance  Period 
against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying the Housing Unit where such repair, 
replacement or rectification cost is the result  of a present or imminent  danger to the physical 
health and safety of the occupants of the Housing  Unit because  the Housing Unit does not 
comply with Building Regulations that applied to the work at the time of construction,  
conversion or refurbishment  in relation to the following: 
 Structure
and
EXCLUSIONS TO SECTION 3.5 
1) Anything  which the Underwriter  would pay for under another  Section of this Policy.
A surveyor inspected the property and said a section of the continuous dry verge had lifted 
and snapped off from the remaining section.  The surveyor  said the required number of 
fixings hadnt been applied in accordance with the manufacturers guidelines. It was thought 
the damage was due to poor design  and workmanship. 
Amtrust has accepted there has been damage to the structure caused by defective  
workmanship. It therefore says it will deal with the claim under section 3.3 of the policy.  I 
think that was appropriate,  as I agree the wording of this section applies to Mr Gs claim. 
Mr G argues that section  3.5 ought  to apply because a section of the roof fell into the street 
below, and he thinks the remaining section could come down at any time.  He also says the 
roof could lose tiles at any time.  
For section 3.5 to apply,  Mr G would need  to show there was present or imminent danger  to 
him, and that the roof needs  to be repaired  because  it didnt comply with building  regulations  
at the time. However, I dont think I need  to address whether or not hes shown  this. I say 
that because,  even  if he was able to show this, theres an exclusion  under section 3.5 which 
means that a claim cant be considered under this section if the claim can be dealt with 
under another section of the policy. 
Given that Im satisfied section 3.3 applies to the circumstances  of Mr Gs claim - that means 
this exclusion would  apply  and so Mr Gs claim cant be considered under section 3.5.
I recognise my decision will disappoint  Mr G, but I think Amtrusts  decision to deal with the 
claim under section 3.3 is appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361161