K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that the vehicle he acquired  though a conditional  sale agreement financed  
by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt  of satisfactory quality. He wants Moneybarn to pay the 
cost of repairs.
background 
Mr G tells us he acquired the vehicle  in September 2017 from a dealer Ill refer to as C. He 
says he took it to a garage Ill refer to as K for an MOT test on 30 April 2018.  He says that 
at this time a number  of issues with the vehicle were identified  and the oil was changed. But 
shortly afterwards he found smoke coming from the engine and the vehicle was taken back  
to K. He says the vehicle was then examined  by S, a company, which found contaminated 
oil which it said had been present at the point of supply. Mr G states that he needs the 
vehicle for his work and when Moneybarn turned down his complaint he paid for repairs 
himself. He thinks these should  now be refunded.
Moneybarn said Mr G had use of the vehicle for seven months prior to the complaint and in 
that time had covered around 6,500  miles. It said it didnt think  it had been  substantiated that 
any fault had been inherent  at the point of supply. But it said as a gesture of goodwill it had 
credited his account with £150  towards an oil flush.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 November  2019.  In that provisional 
decision I said I considered Moneybarns increased offer of goodwill - to refund four monthly  
payments and pay an additional £150 in compensation  to Mr G - was fair and reasonable.
Since issuing my provisional  decision neither  Moneybarn nor Mr G has replied. In these 
circumstances I see no need to change my provisional decision which is largely  repeated in 
my final decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G has experienced problems with this vehicle. Its a fact of life that things 
sometimes go wrong - particularly with used  vehicles  - and clearly  thats  whats happened 
here.
Mr Gs conditional sale agreement is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Moneybarn supplied  the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law 
directly, I do take it into account.  And relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I decide whats the most likely explanation to 
account for whats happened.
Ref: DRN65341572When Mr G acquired  this vehicle its recorded mileage was 56,437 miles. For a vehicle which 
was just over three years old thats  well above average mileage. After he acquired the 
vehicle Im not aware of any reported  issues before the vehicle was taken for an MOT test 
on 30 April 2018. Thats some seven  months after supply to Mr G. And by then the mileage 
had risen to 63,070. The vehicle initially failed its MOT but passed  after a worn wheel 
bearing had been replaced.  Immediately after, when a warning light illuminated, an 
inspection of the vehicle showed  the engine was contaminated with burnt  oil. S inspected the 
vehicle on 31 May 2018,  at Ks premises. It found  that there were no oil leaks.  But it found 
the engine oil to be contaminated with soot/carbon deposits. And when the engine filler cap 
was removed it was also found to be contaminated with sludge. It (S) commented that the 
engine breather  system  contains a high degree  of sludge.
Ss report concluded:
That the vehicle's engine is an advanced state  of wear which is necessitating the engine  to 
have a complete  overall such as replacing the piston rings at a minimum and engine 
bearings along with the engine gaskets and seals.
Subsequently passed a MOT after the date of purchase would lead us to conclusion that the 
vehicle was fit for purpose and road legal  at the point of sale.
This leads  us to question  was vehicle of satisfactory  quality at the date of purchase,  there is 
no doubt in our mind  the vehicles would have  had a good degree of wear  present at the date 
of purchase however this would not be considered  unusual for a vehicle having covered well 
over 50,000 miles at that point, the engine oil condition  would suggest that the vehicle is not 
had a service in a considerable  period of time and given the fact that the vehicle has only 
covered some 7000 miles the date of purchase would suggest to us that the oil was not 
changed prior to the date of sale, taking  that thought into account the fact that poor oil 
condition can result in accelerated  wear to the engine lead us to conclusion that the vehicle 
was not in a satisfactory condition at the point of sale i.e. the vehicle should have been 
serviced prior to the date of purchase  to prevent ongoing engine damage such as present at 
the point of the inspection.
Whilst respecting the report from S I dont think its conclusions are entirely  consistent  with 
the findings of fact on which the report is based.  I dont think  its unfair  to characterise the 
report as suggesting  that poor maintenance is the primary cause of the engine failure.
Ive already commented that the vehicle had covered above average  mileage  at the time of 
supply to Mr G. Ive seen no service history so Im not able to say what, if any, maintenance 
has been carried out on the vehicle  prior to being supplied to Mr G. Theres no information  to 
say that the vehicle was supplied with a service  history. In these  circumstances and given 
the above average mileage of which he would be - or ought reasonably to be - aware, it 
seems to me that Mr G was accepting the vehicle - in terms of the maintenance history - in 
the state it was supplied.  The vehicle  then covered more than 6,500 miles - apparently 
without complaint - until the time of its MOT when further issues  started to become apparent.
Ref: DRN65341573Ss report points to the oil needing to be topped up at the time of the MOT. This suggests it 
was low due to lack of maintenance as no leaks were found. And in finding the oil hadnt 
been changed prior to the date of sale, this also leads to the inevitable conclusion  that it also 
hadnt been changed since the vehicle was acquired by Mr G. Ss report  refers to there 
being sludge contamination visible when the engine filler cap was removed. So either Mr G 
didnt see this because  he didnt check the oil or he didnt  act upon it. And hes responsible 
for the ongoing  maintenance  of the vehicle.  Although Ive not been  told what maintenance, if 
any, he undertook,  the available information  doesnt  suggest that the vehicle was regularly  
and adequately maintained whilst  in his possession.
Ss report states that poor oil condition can lead to accelerated wear and tear. But the actual 
degree of engine damage, if any, or wear  and tear occasioned by the time the vehicle was 
supplied to Mr G cant be determined. The vehicle travelled  a further  6,500  miles after supply 
which suggests it was functional and performing as expected given  the lack of complaint 
prior to the breakdown.  But the normal life of a well maintained vehicle  engine  would be 
rather more than 63,000 miles. So I think its probable that the lack of maintenance whilst  in 
Mr Gs possession is a significant  and ultimate  cause of the present failure. So Im not able 
to find the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Im aware that since the original breakdown Mr G has spent a considerable sum of money 
on this vehicle. I see that in September 2018 the engine was rebuilt  at a cost of £4,300.  But 
given my findings I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to say Moneybarn should be 
responsible for this.
Although not accepting  that the faults with the vehicle were present at the point of supply, 
Moneybarn has offered to assist  by making a gesture of goodwill. As a result  of negotiations 
with our investigator its increased its offer to the refund of four monthly  payments.  This 
corresponds with the period during which Moneybarn  was enquiring into the complaint and 
for much of which time Mr G wasnt able to use the vehicle. And its also agreed  to pay a 
further £150 in compensation for any inconvenience  this caused. Along with the earlier £150 
credited towards  the oil flush, this amounts to over £1,200. 
I think thats a fair offer in these circumstances and I wouldnt be asking Moneybarn to do 
anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I believe the offer made by Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  is fair and 
reasonable. Accordingly my final decision is:
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require Moneybarn No.1  Limited to take the 
following action:
1.Refund four monthly payments together with simple interest  at the rate of 8% per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement;
2.Pay £150 compensation to Mr G.
Ref: DRN65341574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6534157