K822xComplaint
The estate  of Mrs W complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland blocked a debit card which 
meant it wasnt possible to withdraw  funds.  
Background 
My initial conclusions and the background to this complaint are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 25 October 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this case  should be upheld and that 
RBS should pay a total of £200 to resolve the complaint. I invited both parties  to send  me 
any additional comments or information  they wanted  me to consider before I made my final 
decision. 
Ms W has confirmed she accepts the settlement detailed in my provisional decision but 
remains disappointed  at the length of time its taken RBS to resolve the complaint. RBS 
responded to check Ms Ws address but didnt say whether  it accepted my provisional 
decision or not. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms W has accepted  my provisional decision and RBS hasnt sent us anything  new to 
consider, I see no reason  to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision I still think  the complaint 
should be upheld  and RBS should  pay the estate of Mrs W a total of £200. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc to pay 
the estate of Mrs W £200 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64377062Copy Provisional Decision 25 October  2019
Complaint
The estate of Mrs W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland blocked  a debit card which meant  it 
wasnt possible to withdraw funds. 
Background
Ms W had power  of attorney to look after her late mothers affairs and was added  to her account in 
2006. RBS says that it sent Ms W a card to use for the account in 2006 but it expired  in 2008. 
In August 2018 Ms W tried to use her late mothers card in a cash machine but it was declined. Ms W 
later visited a branch  but staff werent able to say why the card had been blocked and said a 
replacement would be sent. 
No replacement was received and Ms W complained  on behalf of the late Mrs W. RBS responded on 
18 September 2018 and agreed it had made some mistakes. But RBS said the account  had been 
blocked correctly because Mrs Ws address hadnt been updated after she moved into a care home. 
When post was returned  as undelivered RBS blocked Mrs Ws card which is why Ms W couldnt  
withdraw cash. RBS also said that whilst Ms W was registered as having power of attorney and could 
act for her mother, she should have been using a card in her name to access  funds in the account.  
RBS apologised  for failing to make contact with Ms W after post was returned  and paid £100. 
On behalf of her late mother Ms W referred the complaint  to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator to look at. The investigator thought RBS had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt  ask it 
to do anything  else.  Ms W asked to continue the complaint so its been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that RBS made some mistakes in this case. RBS has confirmed that it should have contacted  
Ms W after it received post back  marked as undelivered. RBS should have checked why post was 
being returned but it failed  to take that step.  Ive also looked at the addresses RBS had on file for the 
late Mrs W as well as Ms W. 
In 2016 RBS amended Ms Ws address.  But the address  RBS used was her late mothers care home 
address. However, RBS didnt amend the late Mrs Ws address and continued to write  to her and 
send cards to her previous address. 
We recently asked RBS to tell us why it changed Ms Ws address to her late mothers care home in 
2016. RBS responded and sent a copy of a 2015 letter  from Mrs W asking for her address to be 
changed. The letter doesnt  explain why RBS changed  Ms Ws address in 2016.  
Ive looked at everything  we have available.  Without an explanation from RBS Ill have to base my 
decision on the evidence available and the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely  
to have happened based on the available  information. In this case, I think RBS most likely updated 
Ms Ws address instead  of her late mothers in 2016. I cant see any reason RBS would change  Ms 
Ws address to her late mothers care home but leave Mrs Ws existing address on its system. As a 
result of RBS error important  information  about the late Mrs Ws accounts and her replacement cards  
were sent to the wrong address. That led to her account  being  blocked  by RBS when post was 
returned undelivered. 
Ref: DRN64377063RBS offered to pay the estate of Mrs W £100  because it should have contacted Ms W on behalf of her 
late mother when post was returned undelivered. But, as Ive said above,  I think RBS errors go back  
to 2016 when  it incorrectly changed Ms Ws address  instead of her mothers.  That meant cards for 
Mrs W were sent to her previous address. And cards for 
Ms W were likely sent to her mothers care home which meant she didnt  receive replacements. All of 
which led to the situation  where Mrs Ws account was blocked. 
Ms W says that the problem meant she wasnt able to withdraw funds on her mothers behalf for an 
unreasonable amount of time.  RBS paid the estate of Mrs W £100 when it responded  to the 
complaint. But I dont  think  that award  fairly reflects the impact of incorrectly changing addresses in 
2016. Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think RBS should  pay an additional £100 taking the 
total award to £200. 
My provisional decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay the 
estate of Mrs W £200 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Ms W, on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs W, to accept or reject my decision before 25 November  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6437706