K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss N says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
According to the electronic records from the account, Miss N activated her credit  card 
over the phone on 2 September 2004, and thats  also when the PPI was sold. Miss N 
doesnt remember buying PPI on the phone,  though I think thats understandable given 
just how long ago this was, and since buying insurance is not often memorable. There 
isnt still a recording of the call, because  of the time thats passed. But from what  Ive 
seen of Capital  Ones sales process from the time, they wouldve made  it clear  the PPI 
was optional, and wouldve  only set it up if Miss N gave her consent. And Ive not seen 
any evidence to show that Capital One significantly departed from the sales  process here.  
So I think its most likely that Capital One made it clear  Miss N didnt have to take out PPI 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer 
remembers doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Capital One recommended the PPI to Miss N, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Capital One if they did recommend it, so to be fair to 
Miss N, Ive assumed  they did. That means Capital One had to check that the policy  was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, it looks like Miss N was eligible  for the policy and wasnt  affected by 
any of the main things  it didnt  cover.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Miss Ns work benefits or savings and it looks  like it 
offered her more comprehensive cover. And while I understand  Miss Ns family mightve 
been happy to help,  the policy meant she wouldnt  have to ask her family to pay for her 
credit card if she was off sick or lost her job. So it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful for Miss N.
Its possible that the information Capital  One gave Miss N about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But as I said above,  it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have  been  useful for Miss N in case 
something went wrong. The policys cost was proportionate  to the cards balance, so if 
Miss N kept a lower  balance then the PPI would stay at a lower cost. And the policy  was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss N could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  about  the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking it out. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss N.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss N because: 
Ref: DRN61833892Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss N about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell her, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss N any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss N any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
That means Capital  One should re-work the credit  card account and pay back to Miss N the 
difference between  what  she owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss N 
8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss N can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss N.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss N any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done that, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183389