K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook),  has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system. They say the system  was misrepresented to them  by the supplier. They also 
say that Shawbrook lent to them irresponsibly, as the loan was unaffordable.
background
In or around June  2016, Mr and Mrs R were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel  system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After  being visited by a representative  of P, Mr and Mrs R decided to purchase the 
system and finance  it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The 
system was subsequently installed.
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs R made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. 
They said that P had made a number of representations about  the system  that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced them to enter into 
the contract  with P. Mr and Mrs R said the following misrepresentations  had been  made:
They were promised  a minimum of £30-40  per month return
The system  would make savings on their energy  bills
They were told the income (from  Feed  in tariff  FIT  payments  and energy  savings  
combined) would be greater than it had been,  and that this income would essentially 
make the system  self-funding
Mr and Mrs R entered  an IVA in June  2018. Their IVA practitioner has let us know that they 
have an interest in this complaint.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Mr and Mrs R or that there  were any other  reasons for the claim to be upheld.  In summary, it 
said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear that the cash price  of the system was £8,390 
and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was £16,237;
the contract P provided to Mr and Mrs R set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system  was 
not self-funding  immediately  and that there would  be a cost involved;
the contract with P showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one, from FIT 
payments and electricity  savings was £338.63,  whereas  the loan agreement 
repayments were £89.65 a month,  or £1,075.80 over the year,  so there  would be a 
shortfall between the expected benefits  and the loan repayments;
P provided a copy of the contract which was signed by Mr and Mrs R to confirm that 
they had been provided with the information  pertinent to the system and they had 
fully understood  it.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs R referred  their complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened.
Our investigator didnt  think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs R and 
found no reason  to uphold  the complaint.
Ref: DRN66906322Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary, they said:
The paperwork was sent to them after theyd already signed up, they did not see all 
the documents at the time of signing up, and they were  given  completely  different 
information by the sales person;
The signature on page 23 of the quote  is not Mr Rs;
They wouldnt have purchased the system if theyd known that theyd  need  to pay 
more than theyd  receive in FIT payments and energy savings.
Mr and Mrs R raised  affordability concerns after their initial complaint. This wasnt addressed 
by our investigator, however  I gave my initial thoughts in an email to Mr and Mrs R. I 
explained that I was satisfied Shawbrook  had carried out proportionate  checks  at the time of 
lending, and there was no indication that the loan would  be unaffordable.
In response, Mr and Mrs R reiterated that they wouldnt have entered into this agreement if 
theyd thought the solar panels were  going  to cost them anything.  They thought theyd  have 
more money as a result  of getting the solar panels.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  sections  56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs R paid for the system  with a fixed sum loan agreement,  Shawbrook  agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs R can make a claim 
against Shawbrook,  the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could  have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when  deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr and 
Mrs R and P, as the supplier, are deemed  to have  been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Ref: DRN66906323For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs R.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Mr and Mrs R, and by Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Rs solar  quote, titled Your Personal 
Solar Quotation . Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made  by P.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact, alongside  Mr and Mrs Rs recollection  of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the representations Mr and Mrs R allege P made to them, to induce 
them to enter the contract.
The returns  from the system
Mr and Mrs R have alleged that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded  by FIT payments and that theyd have a monthly return  of around  
£30-40. Ive considered the quote  that was provided by P and considered whether this 
supports what Mr and Mrs R say they were  told as I consider the quote was central to the 
sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs R could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system.  This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
Ref: DRN66906324expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and thats why 20 years was used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs R could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £146.64  from FIT payments.
Page 9 of the quote goes  on to look at the electricity savings  Mr and Mrs R could  expect 
from the system as well as any savings  they would make from taking out any optional  extras  
including a voltage optimiser and a boiler  doctor.  The estimated year one electricity saving 
is £191.99 and the combined  FIT, energy savings and benefits  from optional extras in year 
one is shown as £501.83. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The following  page, so page 10, has a section titled Repayments . This has three tables set 
out over 60 months,  120 months and 180 months.  The table for 180 months is highlighted  as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs R entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets 
out that there are 180 monthly payments of £89.65 due and compares the overall  expected 
return from the system, averaged over a monthly  basis, versus the expected loan 
repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr and Mrs R could  expect to receive  from the 
system, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that 
the table doesnt simply  compare  their FIT income  to the monthly  loan repayments,  it does  
clearly set out that the overall  income  they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and 
any additional savings,  would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly  loan 
repayments. Therefore,  Im not satisfied that they were  told that the monthly  loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income  alone or that theyd  receive a minimum £30 
 40 monthly benefit from the system.
Total cost and return of the system 
Ill now consider whether  P told Mr and Mrs R that the income would be greater than what it 
has been, and that this income would essentially make the system  self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the overall expected return  from the system 
versus the loan repayments. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format 
comparing the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs R were  expected  to have 
made a loss of £47.83 a month and in the second year this would decrease  to a loss of 
£45.49 a month. It wouldnt  be until the fifteenth  year that the expected  benefits would 
exceed the monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been  until 
around year 20 that they would have sufficiently  recouped any previous annual  losses and 
the system would be paying for itself.
Ref: DRN66906325Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs R were  told that the system would be self-
funding. I think  the quote  is clear that there  would be a difference  between  the overall 
expected return  and the monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page six of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between  the 
expected income  and loan repayments :
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would be self-funding as the graph, in my 
view, clearly illustrates the expected  shortfall  between the expected  income compared to the 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs R were told that theyd  receive a year one benefit of £501.83  as 
this was the expected combined  FIT and savings on their energy bills. Having said that, 
taking into account  the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were led to 
believe that theyd  receive this sum in their hand. Im satisfied that the quote makes  it clear 
that theyd have to make  loan repayments  and overall there would be a deficit.
I also find that Mr and Mrs R were  more likely  than not told by P that the system would pay 
for itself over a 20-year  period.  Page  12 of the quote has a table headed Estimated  
performance over 30 years:
This shows that by year 20 the overall benefits  that Mr and Mrs R could expect to receive 
(£17,314) would have  exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement  
(£16,237).
As Ive set out above, I think P told Mr and Mrs R that the system would pay for itself by year 
20, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue  statement of fact, and that was 
what induced them to enter the contract,  and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would 
amount to a misrepresentation. So, Ive gone on to consider whether that statement, made  
by P, was a reasonable and accurate statement  to make at the point of sale or whether it 
was untrue.
Ive looked at the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract  
between P and Mr and Mrs R. The quote  sets out that the system is expected to produce 
2,164.43 kWh a year. This in turn would  generate  the income by way of FIT payments and 
savings in their energy  bills, that Mr and Mrs R could expect  to receive.
Mr and Mrs R have provided  FIT statements from December 2016 to March 2019. Ive 
summarised these below.
Start date End date Generation (kWh)
10/12/2016 18/03/2017 180.32
18/03/2017 16/06/2017 753.85
16/06/2017 18/09/2017 726.16
Ref: DRN6690632618/09/2017 19/12/2017 231.21
19/12/2017 22/03/2018 204.92
22/03/2018 01/07/2018 902.5
01/07/2018 21/12/2018 954
21/12/2018 19/03/2019 235
Between 22 March  2018 and 19 March 2019,  the system generated a total of 2,091.5 kWh. 
This is slightly  less than estimated in the quote  but only by around 70 kWh per year. I think 
that this is within a reasonable margin of the estimates given at the point of sale.
So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr and Mrs R to be close to recouping any initial losses 
from the system and for it to have  paid for itself by year 20. Mr and Mrs R have said that this 
isnt the case,  so Ive gone on to consider  whether P have overstated the potential  income  
and savings they could expect to receive  by, for example, using unreasonable  assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Mr and Mrs R was personalised to their specific  circumstances and 
used a number  of underlying assumptions  to calculate the income  and benefits  they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included  the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system, the amount  of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs R would use rather than buying it from their energy provider, therefore 
leading to savings  on their energy bills and the expected increase in utility  prices alongside 
the expected annual  increase in RPI inflation.  The expected increase in utility  prices and RPI 
were based  on the Office  of National Statistics (ONS) data.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote  sets out that Mr and Mrs R were  expected to use, or self-consume, 57% of the 
kWh generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  
saving of £191.99. This amount of saving would increase each  year in line with the ONS 
data Ive mentioned  above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting  to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%.
Shawbrook explained  that rather than picking  one standard self-consumption  rate, P, used a 
bespoke calculation which is tailored for each customer. This calculation  is based on 
information provided to them by the consumer about  their electricity usage.  Ive looked at 
this method in detail  and Im satisfied that the assumptions used are fair and personalised to 
Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the point of sale.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr and Mrs R were  expected  to self-
consume were both reasonable  assumptions  for P to have made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs R could expect  to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases  was 
6.92% and for RPI was 3.04%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
Ref: DRN669063272015 to 2020 to see whether both energy  prices  and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P.
The data from the ONS  suggests that energy prices  have  increased by 3.7% and RPI by 
2.56%. Both of these figures  are lower than the assumptions used by P and in my view 
explain why Mr and Mrs R arent  receiving  the financial returns from the system that they 
may have  expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS.  Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used these assumptions 
to calculate the expected financial returns from the system.  Im of the view that this goes 
some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 20.
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs R are disappointed by the financial returns  from the 
system, Im satisfied  that this isnt due to P using  unreasonable assumptions when they 
entered into the contract for the system. So, I dont think what  P said about the system 
paying for itself by year 20 was an untrue statement of fact.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, Mr and Mrs R said that they didnt receive a copy of 
the Your  personal  solar  quotation  document until after theyd signed up. They  also dont 
believe that the signature on page  23 of the document  is Mr Rs. They have not disputed  that 
Mrs R has signed the document,  or that its Mr Rs signature on page 11.
The signatures on the quote  are dated 6 June 2016.  Shawbrook  have provided a system 
screenshot which shows that an email was sent to Mr and Mrs R on 7 June  2016  with an 
attachment. I think, on balance, its likely that attachment  was the quote.
I say this because  Shawbrook has provided  detailed  information explaining Ps sale 
processes. Ps process was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting  by email.  Based on our experience  of what  we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied  that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mr and Mrs R, and I have  no reason  to doubt thats what happened in this case.
So, Im still satisfied that Mr and Mrs R saw the quote, including  all the detailed information 
Ive referred to above, before the panels were  installed.
Mr R has signed the document  twice in two different  sections. Although  the two signatures, 
one at page 11 and one at page  23 are slightly different, they are not so different to lead me 
to conclude the one on page 23 is not genuine. Also, Mrs R has not disputed that its her 
signature on the quote, so I think its more likely than not that the other signature is Mr Rs. 
Ref: DRN66906328Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs R saw and signed the Your personal solar quotation 
document before the system was installed.
Mr and Mrs R also say Shawbrook lent to them irresponsibly, as the loan was unaffordable.
Shawbrook has let us know that the loan was approved based on Mr and Mrs Rs joint 
income. Its explained that its records show  their joint income at the point of application was 
£28,000. Its also explained that Mr and Mrs R maintained their monthly repayments for two 
years before falling  behind. Therefore,  it doesnt believe the loan was unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs R have provided  their bank statements, credit report and details of their debt 
commitments at the time of sale.
Having been provided with this information,  Shawbrook has defended its decision  to lend. It 
says it completed reasonable and proportionate  checks. It says it asked Mr and Mrs R to 
provide details of their income, as well as checking  Mr and Mrs Rs credit file. Shawbrook  
says these checks were proportionate  as they covered  Mr and Mrs Rs main financial 
commitments and did not show any markers  which wouldve prompted  it not to lend. 
Shawbrook says the information it received demonstrated the loan was affordable  to Mr and 
Mrs R and as such the decision to lend was fair.
When lending to Mr and Mrs R, Shawbrook was required to carry out an assessment of their 
creditworthiness considering the impact  on their financial situation and their ability to make  
repayments over the life of the credit  agreement.  The creditworthiness assessment needed 
to be based on sufficient information obtained  from the customer  and, where  necessary, a 
credit reference agency. The assessment needed  to be proportionate to such  factors as the 
type, amount  and cost of the credit and the customers  credit history.
Having reviewed the evidence provided, I agree that Shawbrook completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving  Mr and Mrs Rs loan application. Mr and Mrs R 
declared a joint income of £28,000. Their monthly salary wouldve been  around £2,160. The 
credit bureau data viewed  by Shawbrook showed  Mr and Mrs R had credit  card debt in the 
region of £2,000 and other debt repayment commitments, including  their mortgage, totalling  
a little over £1,000 per month.  There were no arrears showing on any of these accounts. No 
indications of historic  debt problems or of over-indebtedness.
This would have left Mr and Mrs R with just over £1,000 each month. The monthly loan 
repayment was £89. Mr and Mrs R maintained  repayments to Shawbrook for two years 
before falling behind. I think these factors indicate  that the checks  completed by Shawbrook  
were proportionate. Ive seen  nothing to indicate that this lending was unaffordable or that Mr 
and Mrs Rs loan application shouldnt have been approved.
Ref: DRN66906329Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were  no untrue statements  of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs R 
to enter  into the contract for the system. Im also satisfied that Shawbrook didnt lend to 
Mr and Mrs R irresponsibly, and Ive found  no other  reason to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2021.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6690632