K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way their contents insurance claim has been handled by 
U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following a fire in their home, and with the proposed settlement.
background
In early October 2018 Mr and Mrs W made a claim to UKI on their contents policy with it 
following a fire in their daughters bedroom which caused considerable damage to the 
contents of that room  and also to their sons bedroom. Further  smoke damage  was caused 
to other  items in the property both upstairs and downstairs. UKI arranged through its 
contractors for the contents to be removed from the property. Those items which were 
immediately identified as beyond economical  repair (BER) were disposed  of. The other  items 
were placed  into storage.  They  were assessed  as to whether they were BER,  or needed 
cleaning or restoration.  The electrical items  which werent BER were sent for PAT (electrical 
safety) testing and returned for cleaning.  Once that was done the remaining items were  
returned to Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W complained to UKI that it had delayed in collecting the items, that some of the 
items were missing,  that they hadnt  received a settlement for other items, that the electrical  
items should be written  off as they had been in the property for more than 72 hours after the 
fire. They further complained that the contractors refused to correspond with them  and that 
the items  werent  being ozoned (disinfected)  as had been promised.
UKI explained the position  that not all the items  were itemised, but that the items had now 
been accounted for. It said all items had been ozoned. It agreed that there  had been  a poor 
service in dealing  with the collection  of the items and in responding to Mr and Mrs Ws 
emails. However it didnt think it necessary to write off all the electrical items and it confirmed 
that after restoration, cleaning and (for electrical  items)  PAT testing that the restored items 
would be returned.  It would pay a settlement for items which  were  BER. Because of the poor 
service it agreed to pay compensation of £300. Mr and Mrs W werent  happy  with that and 
felt that the contractors couldnt be trusted to clean all the items  satisfactorily.
On review by this service  our investigator  said that she thought that UKI had acted  
reasonably, in that the agreed  procedure had been for the items to be tested then cleaned. 
And that UKI had paid reasonable compensation for any failings in its service.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  and further  pointed out that some  of the items had now been  
returned damaged  or stained   they sent photos  to us and to UKI. I understood that UKI had 
considered those items and had paid a settlement  for some of them,  but it hadnt agreed that 
we could consider  them  as they concern matters after its final response of 25 January 2019. 
My view was that these matters can and should be dealt with  they concern the same 
complaint and UKI had had ample  notice of them.
I issued a provisional decision. In respect of the matters up until 25 January 2019 I agreed 
with our investigators view that UKI had paid reasonable compensation for any failings in its 
service. In respect of matters after that final response, I noted  that Mr and Mrs W had 
continued to correspond with UKIs loss adjusters, in respect of items that were returned  
stained or damaged. I noted  that it had paid a further settlement to include some  of those 
items. I thought that UKI had dealt reasonably with this. But in view of the fact that further 
items were returned in that state,  I thought it should  pay a further £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN63085312Whilst it didnt disagree with the further £100 compensation, UKI thought it unfair that it 
should have the change  of outcome logged against  it for concerns it hadnt had a chance to 
respond to (because  theyd happened after its final response had been issued).
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with my provisional findings:
They had to use an alternative restoration  company  due to the complete incompetence 
shown by UKIs original  contractors. This also shows  that all of their electrical items 
remained uncleaned  and in the same contaminated state as they left the house  almost 5 
months previously.  This proves  that the contractors and UKI had not cleaned or restored 
any of the items.
They were advised by the contractors  (after 2 days  of inspection) that they had finished  
with their contents and were  ready  to deliver back all except BER items. They were sent 
a list of electrical items  which  were PAT tested and a BER list. This is when Mr W 
noticed that there were many electrical items  not listed on the PAT test list. After  weeks  
of complaining and insisting  that a loss adjuster  was involved they say the not enough 
space" lie was born.  
Missed electrical items: Items  were  left in boxes for over 2 months with no confirmation 
that the contractors  even had them.
Loss adjuster requested full inventory of contents, refer to lie above.
Not opening  boxes: They did not until the loss adjuster requested  a full inventory in 
December. They were  never asked to attend the storage  facility on the contrary they 
were told by the contractors that they were  unable to answer any more questions e.g. 
where is my sofa? 
The process of ozone  treating smoke damaged goods is only carried  out after the items 
have been cleaned and decontaminated. The contractors were  found not to have 
cleaned any item.  They  think  it is absolutely clear that this was not carried  out.
They had to spend 6 months trying to have  their contents cleaned  and restored  properly. 
As UKI failed to deal with their claim their whole family had to remain in various  hotels 
and alternative accommodation miles from their home until this was settled. UKI have 
paid no compensation for this.
The main point  in making an official complaint was to prevent UKI from causing other 
customers the same distress. How will a token fine of £100 prevent  UKI from mistreating 
their unfortunate customers?
They would expect  to be compensated for the 7 months their family  had to spend miles 
away from home in various  alternative  properties due to UKI delays. £5,000.
Mr W would also expect to be compensated for the time he had to manage his own claim 
due to UKIs incompetence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63085313These were  my provisional findings:
I must make the preliminary point  here that we are an alternative  dispute resolution service, 
set up to resolve disputes informally.  So whilst I have considered the way the whole claim 
was handled,  I havent set out extensive investigations in response to every point made.  
Mr and Mrs Ws concerns  were:
The contractors delayed removing the contents  from their home.
The contractors missed electrical  items that needed PAT testing.
Items  were missing  from the lists e.g. their sofa.
The contractors didnt  go through their boxes properly and Mr and Mrs W feel they were  
going to try to return them unopened.
They were informed  that after 72 hours  in the property contents  would  be contaminated 
too much  to restore and feel all electrical items  should be replaced due to contamination.
They were told that all of their contents would be ozoned.
The contractors refused to reply  to their emails.
Some of their items were  returned stained  or damaged, and they arent  happy  with the 
settlement they received.
delay in removing  contents
UKI has agreed that there  was a delay in removing their fire/smoke  damaged contents. The 
contractors were instructed on 11 October 2018.  There were initial issues  with storage 
capacity but the contractors had to be chased  up by the buildings insurer. Contents werent 
removed until 31 October.  Considering they were kept in a damp fire damaged property  I 
agree that this was too long. Mr and Mrs W say this wasnt what  they were  told at the time.  
They were  later told that there were storage issues. That may have been the case and I can 
understand their frustration at the lack of communication. The items were, according  to UKIs 
notes moved to a larger storage facility in December.
missed electrical items for PAT testing
UKI said that its contractors advised  that due to a lack of storage capacity, all the items  
werent checked initially. It said that the contents  were transferred to a larger  facility  in 
December, where the remaining items were checked. UKI agreed  that this took too long. 
Again Mr and Mrs W dispute that this happened  As far as I can see the items that needed 
PAT testing were tested.  I accept that Mr and Mrs W may not have  been  given this 
information at the time, and that they had to chase the matter up. But given UKIs admission 
that his took too long to happen, I think I can fairly  assess  the appropriate compensation.
didnt go through  their boxes properly
Mr and Mrs W feel that the contractors were going to return the boxes unopened and 
unchecked. UKI has explained  that this was down to the issue of storage capacity. There 
was never  any intention to return boxes unopened. I accept that Mr and Mrs W dont believe 
this, but it does appear to be factually correct that the items were inspected  when they were  
moved to a larger storage facility. I accept they may not have had this explained to them at 
the time.  I understand  that the contractors  offered  for Mr and Mrs W to attend the storage 
facility.
Ref: DRN63085314As far as Im aware, all items have now been returned.
Items were missing  from the lists e.g. their sofa
This was true of the initial lists. But all the items  were eventually accounted for. I accept that 
this would have  caused Mr and Mrs W some anxiety.
they were informed that after 72 hours in the property contents  would be contaminated too 
much to restore.
This was Mr and Mrs Ws initial understanding, so they felt in particular that all electrical 
items should have  been replaced. And UKI agreed that the longer the items were  left in the 
property in the aftermath of the fire, the more they would deteriorate. It hasnt  accepted that 
it told him that the items  would  be too contaminated beyond 72 hours, but that ideally,  they 
should be removed  within that time. Mr W accepts  this. All items have been returned and 
settlement made for the BER items.
items werent ozoned
UKI says they were. Mr W disputes this as some  of the items werent clean when returned. 
That is a different issue  I think it reasonable to accept  that the items were  ozoned.
contractors refused to reply to emails
Mr and Mrs W are particularly upset about this, as they felt that the contractors had been 
caught lying. UKI has said that the contractors should have  replied to an enquiry about  the 
sofa. The contractors  felt they had no further  response to make. Its difficult to assess how 
far the contractors should have gone in replying to emails  they arent claims or complaints 
handlers. I accept that this caused  some upset  to Mr and Mrs W - clearly, they were 
concerned about  where their contents were and what their state might be following their 
return
return of items
Im advised  that UKI now considers it has paid a full settlement for the damaged  items  and 
returned all restored/cleaned items.  Mr and Mrs W were very unhappy with the state of some 
of the items returned. They have shown us photos  of damaged/dirty items like the sofa and 
bookcase. I have also reviewed the claims notes from the loss adjusters file concerning 
those items.  Its clear that it was accepted that some  of the items were  damaged  by the 
removals/ storage process.  The settlement paid by UKI included  a settlement for the 
damaged/dirty items.
Its very difficult, at this distance from the claim to assess  papers  and photos  and say UKI 
should or shouldnt have  paid more. I understand that Mr and Mrs W disposed  of the items 
they were unhappy  with. The overall  sense I get from the loss adjusters notes is that they 
tried to deal with the claim sympathetically. Overall,  whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ws 
dissatisfaction with this, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect UKI to make any 
further payments  in respect of the contents.
Ref: DRN63085315compensation
For the issues identified  up until its final response  in January 2019, I think the payment of 
£300 compensation is fair and reasonable. Following that, some items were  returned as Ive 
described, damaged  or stained.  I think  for the additional inconvenience  and upset this 
caused, UKI should  pay a further  £100  compensation.
I would remind Mr and Mrs W of what I said in my provisional findings, namely that we are a 
service that seeks to resolve  matters informally. And we dont fine businesses, that isnt 
part of our function. As Ive said I will not go into extensive investigations on every issue. 
UKIs notes  show items were moved to a larger storage facility  and that the items were 
ozoned. Whilst  appreciating  Mr and Mrs W doubt  this and that they werent told about it at 
the time,  I cant say anything further about those issues.  I have  found  that there were delays 
and that some items were damaged and/or stained  when they were returned.  
But its not possible now to do a forensic examination  of every item. In keeping with resolving 
issues informally I have assessed the loss adjusters notes regarding  payment for damaged 
items. I do think  that a reasonable  payment was made. And that it was reasonable to 
increase the compensation award  to account for this.
With regard to alternative accommodation  issues, I bear in mind that UKI was the contents 
insurer. And that alternative accommodation will only be necessary whilst the building 
remains uninhabitable. The responsibility for that lies with the buildings  insurer. And whilst 
there may have been delay in removing  the contents, I havent seen any evidence that the 
buildings insurer refused to pay for such accommodation. There  would be an entitlement to 
such accommodation under the contents  policy. How that is paid and whether the buildings 
insurer has sought a contribution from UKI is matter for the respective insurers to sort out 
between themselves. I dont propose  to award  any additional compensation for this.
I appreciate that Mr W has spent time on this case. But it isnt our usual practice to award 
compensation based on a consumers time. I think the compensation awarded,  based on the 
sort of awards we have made in similar cases, is fair and reasonable.
With regard to UKIs comments, I think it had ample  notice of the further issues and could 
have chosen at any time to issue to consider the issue of compensation relating to the goods  
being returned.
My provisional findings, as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay to Mr and Mrs W a further  
£100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6308531