K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs S say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
S circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs S representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs S. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need  to tell Mr and 
Mrs S about  the commission  it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because NatWest  has provided  copies of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale including Mr and Mrs S mortgage application.  Looking  at this 
firstly, I can see in a section titled Mortgage Repayments Protector Mr and Mrs S were  
asked if they wanted  cover. And there  is a printed  Yes as the answer.  While the answer 
is printed and not handwritten, all of the information on the form has been recorded this 
way  so it seems likely to me the form was printed  out by the NatWest  representative  
having asked  Mr and Mrs S the questions in the application  during the meeting. 
Ref: DRN62009612In addition NatWest  has provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs S mortgage  offer letter which  
reflects the decision they made  about PPI recording the details of the policy here 
including the monthly cost. And I can see Mr and Mrs S completed a separate direct  
debit mandate  to allow the PPI premiums  to be taken from their bank account.
While Im mindful that NatWest recommended the cover to Mr and Mrs S, taking 
everything into account, I think they chose to take out PPI and did so without undue 
pressure.
NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S  the evidence from the time shows  
that advice was given. So NatWest had to check that the PPI was right for them. And the 
evidence about Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them. For example  Mr and Mrs S were eligible for 
the cover  and although they had existing means in the form of some  sick pay, 
redundancy pay and savings, they still seem to have had a need for cover. I say this 
because the policy  would have paid out in addition to and longer than Mr and Mrs S sick 
pay would have  lasted  allowing  any savings  to be preserved or used for other ongoing 
household expenditure.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs S employment or occupation, which would have  
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could  affect  their ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  and back problems. So given the policy was 
protecting Mr and Mrs S mortgage and ultimately  their home, in light of their 
circumstances at the time, including the fact they had two dependants, I dont think  it was 
wrong for NatWest to have recommended PPI. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI overall wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S 
as I concluded  above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought  they were buying  
from the information they were  given. At around  £10 a month  it also looks  like it was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have declined the cover had NatWest 
done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs S representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have  disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN62009613But Mr and Mrs S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs S particular  case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest  didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt  need  to pay back any of the commission  Mr and Mrs S paid. My reasons  
are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs S representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs S should  get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  NatWest failed to tell Mr and Mrs S about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs S PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has worked  this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs S case  
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN62009614-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr and Mrs S about the commission.  So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated 
Mr and Mrs S unfairly. 
This means  NatWest doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission  they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs S complaint or make  any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs S 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200961