K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P has complained that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC registered two CIFAS markers 
against her name and refuses to remove  them.
Background
Mrs P was a Tesco Bank customer. In August 2017, she applied for a new saver  account. As 
part of its checks,  Tesco discovered that her contact details appeared in applications  for a 
current account and a loan, which were made in a third partys name in 2015. 
The loan was paid into the third partys  account and later transferred to an account in Mrs 
Ps name. The repayments  were made from a joint account. Mrs Ps was one of the 
accountholders.
Tesco called the third party on 6 September 2017.  She said she didnt want  to deal with 
Tesco and confirmed  that she hadnt applied for any accounts with Tesco  or taken out any 
loans. It later spoke to Mrs P who said the third party was her aunt.
Tesco subsequently registered two CIFAS markers  against Mrs Ps name  for identity fraud.  
On 22 September  2017, the aunt called Tesco and confirmed that shed allowed her niece, 
Mrs P, to open the account and to apply for the loan. She said her niece was having financial 
problems and she wanted to help her out. She followed up the call with a letter  confirming 
she accepted  liability for the outstanding  balance  on the loan account.  She also changed the 
contact details on the account.
However, Tesco decided  to close the current account in the aunts name. It left the loan 
account open because there was still an outstanding balance and the aunt had accepted 
liability for it. The monthly repayments continued to be made but from a different account.
Mrs P asked Tesco to remove the two CIFAS  markers but it refused because:
the aunt originally denied any knowledge of the account and loan when Tesco first 
called her.
The aunt said she thought the call was a hoax yet she didnt hang  up. She continued 
with the call, which lasted approximately 20 minutes and answered  questions.  This 
suggested that she was concerned about  what  happened.
Mrs P and the aunt gave conflicting  versions of events. In particular, the aunt said her 
niece completed  the applications and signed for her. Mrs P said she had never made 
an application for anyone else.
The aunt was talking  to, and possibly taking  instructions, from someone else in one 
of the calls.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into the complaint and decided to uphold it. He said that, whilst the 
arrangement between Mrs P and her niece might be unorthodox, he didnt think that Tesco 
had satisfied the test for registering a CIFAS marker. He recommended  that Tesco  remove 
the two markers.
Ref: DRN61772842CIFAS disagreed with the investigators view. It repeated its concerns with the way Mrs P 
and the aunt responded to its investigations.  Also, it said it relied  on guidance from CIFAS 
on what to load in such a circumstance and this demonstrates that it acted fairly.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the facts and the relevant industry  
guidance on CIFAS. As he explained, the bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. 
The bank must  have a good reason to believe it could  have  suffered a loss and/or it 
reasonably believes  it has grounds  to press criminal charges as a result of the activity  on the 
account. This should be more than just a suspicion  or concern.
If Tesco received guidance  or advice from CIFAS then its fair and reasonable that I should  
consider it. Ive read the correspondence between Tesco and CIFAS. The subject of their 
exchange is about what type of marker to load. In its email,  CIFAS admitted it was an 
unusual case,  there  was no specific  loading  to cover the events but decided to use the 
identity fraud  marker adding there  wasnt a victim.  It said Tesco would need to give details of 
its loss. CIFAS didnt advise specifically  on whether  Tesco  had satisfied the test for 
recording the markers.
Tesco may say that its implicit from the guidance  that the test was met. However,  on 
balance, considering all the evidence Im not persuaded it was and I think  Tesco  should 
remove the markers. Ive reached this conclusion because:
by the end of its investigation, and in spite of the evidence given by both women,  the 
aunt accepted liability for the loan.
The aunt hasnt  complained about identity fraud.
Tesco didnt feel the need to take any further  action with regard  to the loan.  Indeed, it 
conceded that the aunt had accepted liability and this was a reason for doing  nothing 
more.
Tesco hasnt suffered a loss. The repayments had been met and continued to be 
made after the investigation closed.  
Even when the details  became  known  in 2017, Tesco  hadnt  suffered a loss. It was 
still receiving the repayments
According to the guidance from CIFAS,  Tesco needed to record its loss but it hasnt 
shown an actual  loss.
Mrs P was an existing customer with no record of complaints against her.
Therefore, I dont consider that it had reasonable grounds to believe it could have suffered a 
loss or that it had grounds to press  criminal  charges.  For these reasons, I dont think  the test 
was met. Clearly, Mrs P and her aunt differed in their explanations. And I can see why Tesco  
had concerns but the CIFAS test requires more  than just a suspicion or concern. There is 
now only a year left to run, and so I think  its also fair and reasonable to remove the markers. 
Ref: DRN61772843My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
Im asking Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
remove the two CIFAS  markers against  Mrs Ps name
remove any adverse credit markers  recorded on Mrs Ps file as a result  of the CIFAS 
markers
pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the markers  and 
having to bring this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6177284