K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that the hire purchase  agreement she took out with Volkswagen Financial Services  
(UK) Limited (VFSL),  trading as Audi Financial  Services, was misrepresented  to her. She relies on 
the rights  she believes  she has under Section  56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the CCA).
background
In December 2017 Ms J acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement with VFSL.  
Ms J said it was her original intention to finance the car with her own funds. Prior to taking 
out the agreement she said she spoke to a salesman at the dealership who suggested it was 
a good idea to take out a finance agreement in order to qualify for two free services.
Ms J said she was told that even if she paid the finance off after a few months (which she 
said she would) she would still qualify for the free services. She said she was assured that 
the only additional cost would be the interest  added  to each monthly payment she made. As 
this tallied with the explanation of how interest was calculated on the Pre-Contract Credit 
Information - i.e. interest payable is calculated at the outset and is included in the monthly 
repayments, she said she accepted what she was told by the salesman.
In addition Ms J said she also specifically asked if there were any added  administration or 
early repayment charges  or penalties. She said the salesman assured her there  werent any. 
Ms J said there was absolutely no point  her taking out finance if it was going to cost her 
more than the two services she was getting free so she was particularly interested in reading  
the Early Repayment  sections on both the Pre-Contract Credit  Information document and 
section 7 of the Hire Purchase Agreement document. 
In June 2018 Ms J requested a settlement quote  from VFSL  which was larger than she had 
anticipated. She said she had paid 263.59 over six months (January 2018 to June 2018), 
totalling 1,581.54. From her discussion with the dealership she expected  the settlement to be 
11,450 minus the amount of monthly payments she had made up to that date.  The settlement 
figure provided was 10,765.06. Ms J had expected to pay £9,868.46. She complained to VFSL. 
In its final response VFSL  did not uphold Ms Js complaint. It said the settlement  had been  
calculated per the Consumer Credit  (Early  Settlement) Regulations 2004 (CCESR) using the 
Government Actuarys Department (GAD) calculation. It explained these allowed for an 
additional 58 days interest to be added. Ms J was unhappy with this response so brought her 
complaint to this service.  
Initially our investigator concluded that VFSL hadnt  acted fairly. She believed  Ms J hadnt  
been informed  about the additional interest  charges prior to signing the agreement. Her 
recommendation was to put Ms J back into the position she wouldve been in if she was told 
all the relevant information before  entering  the agreement. 
VFSL did not agree  with this view and provided a detailed response.  In summary  it said it wasnt 
fair to assume a customer  is agreeing to a legally binding finance contract with the intention of 
ending the agreement before the intended term. And it disagreed  that Ms J being able to evidence  
she could purchase  the vehicle  outright was evidence she was mis-sold a finance agreement.  It 
provided further argument concerning  its obligations  regarding the CCA and the CCESR.
Ref: DRN62228882VFSL said there is a legal  obligation to discuss the early settlement interest calculation at the 
point of sale - and Ms J signed confirming she had read or been provided with an 
explanation of how interest is charged should she wish to settle her finance  agreement early. 
It said Ms J ticked the check list and completed an e-signature on the document.
VFSL also asked that we consider to two identical cases that this service  had investigated  
previously and also the fact Ms J waited six months to settle the finance agreement,  given 
she asked for a settlement quote  after two months in February 2018. 
Following this response the investigator  changed her view. She said even though the 58 
days interest wasnt mentioned to Ms J at the point of sale she didnt think  VFSL was wrong 
to add it into the settlement figure.  
Ms J did not accept this view and asked  for a decision from an ombudsman.  She said her 
conversation with the dealership specifically  related  to paying off the loan in the first few 
months and that she had been mis-sold the loan. She said a death  in her family  meant she 
was unable to deal with the finance  agreement until June 2018.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Ms J and VFSL on 2 December 2019. I said: 
VFSL has asked me to consider previous identical complaints that have come  to this 
service when coming to my decision.  While we do of course  receive complaints that are 
similar in nature and circumstance we do not receive identical complaints  specific 
details and evidence  will be different. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of 
Ms Js complaint.  
VFSL said Ms J signed  that she had read and been provided with an explanation of how 
interest is charged should she wish to settle her agreement early. I have seen a copy of 
this checklist and I can see Ms J has signed  it. But this doesnt  illustrate  what explanation 
the dealership  actually  gave Ms J so it is not clear from the checklist  Ms J was provided 
with the correct explanation. 
VFSL also explained  how it calculated the early settlement quote using CCESR, section 
5, which  allows for the settlement date for the rebate  calculation  to be set 28 days after 
the debtor  has given  notice of early settlement. And section 6 which  provides for an 
additional deferment period, 30 days,  that can be set if the term of the agreement  is 
longer than a year.  This calculation, itself, as well as VFSLs legal right to apply the 
deferment of settlement,  is not in dispute. Ms J is complaining  she was not made aware 
that the 58 day interest deferment of settlement would be applied  irrespective of how 
many days  it included,  prior to signing the agreement. That is to say, did the dealer 
mislead her about how early settlement worked and therefore was there a 
misrepresentation that led Ms J to enter into the agreement. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  makes  VFSL liable for 
misrepresentations made by a credit broker. I dont decide if Section 56 applies. But I 
do have to take account of relevant law when  deciding  what  is fair and reasonable. 
Section 56 is relevant  law.
I went on to say:
I must decide if Ms J was given incorrect information which induced her into a contract 
which otherwise she would not have  entered into. 
Ref: DRN62228883The sales  advisor  who spoke to Ms J is no longer working at the dealership.  So it isnt 
possible to obtain  his direct testimony.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or missing, as is the case here, I must 
make my decision  based on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider most 
likely to have happened.
The dealership has said that typically the sales person will go over the agreements  and 
the benefits of services.  It said the business manager has access  to the agreements and 
is always available to assist. The dealership  said that the explanation would say that the 
settlement figure is made up of monthly payments minus the rebate of interest  and 
typically up to two months interest on top. It went on to say the repayment calculation  
would not have been explained in the way Ms J has described but it couldnt  say for 
certain because the sales  advisor was not longer  with the business.  
The dealerships position is that the sales advisor did fully and correctly explain how the 
early settlement figure  would be calculated, especially as it also explained that sales 
advisors do have regular observation assessments and training. But I have also thought  
carefully about the circumstances  around the agreement and the credibility  of Ms Js 
testimony. 
Ms J has said consistently that she initially did not intend to take out finance, that she had 
the money in the bank to pay for the car. Ms J has said it was the sales  adviser who first 
mentioned taking out the finance and that she followed  his suggestion based on what she 
was told. She provided a statement of her savings account as evidence of this. VFSL  has 
disputed that this statement is evidence she intended to pay for the car outright as there  are 
many benefits to using  finance. And I agree it is not evidence of intention  but it does 
support her testimony and Ms J says she was persuaded to use finance because  of a 
specific benefit, two free services. In addition, money  in the bank  coupled  with requests for 
an early settlement as early as February  and then in June also supports her testimony.  
In her complaint Ms J said she specifically asked the sales  advisor  if there were any 
administration charges or early repayment  charges or penalties. She said she was 
assured there werent any. This is consistent  with VFSL which  said there  are no 
additional fees or charges  added  to the settlement fee on the finance  agreement.  As the 
sales advisor was, at this point, aware Ms J would be looking to settle  early  and was only 
taking out finance as per his suggestion to benefit  from the free services he should  have 
clearly explained  to her about the 58 days interest  payable on early  settlement. 
VFSL has questioned  why Ms J didnt bring the agreement to an end earlier,  in February, 
when she first asked for a settlement quote. It also questioned why she didnt query the 
quote at that time. Ms J sought to do it eventually in June. 
In her response to the view Ms J said that she did query the quote in an email dated 21 
February, a copy of which I have seen,  stating that she had made two repayments  and 
didnt understand  the settlement figure.  A copy of this email can be provided to VFSL  on 
request. Ms J said she then had a death  in the family and was unable to pursue this 
matter again until June. 
Ref: DRN62228884Ms J signed  a four year agreement. So Im satisfied  that requesting to terminate an 
agreement at two months  and again at six months is an indicator that Ms J had the 
intention to use her own funds to pay for the car. I also consider  Ms Js testimony relating 
to the delay between February and June to be credible. 
Based on the evidence  presented so far, Im not persuaded  that details relating to the 
additional interest payable on early termination were explained completely. 
VFSL has said: 
We agree there is no provision regarding the 58 days interest anywhere in the 
agreement documents,  however this derives directly from the Consumer Credit 
(Early Settlement) Regulations 2004Ms J signed  a legally binding document  to 
agree she had read or been  provided with:  An explanation of how interest is 
charged should I wish to settle  my finance agreement early
This calculation is not on the agreement and Ms J says she specifically  wanted  to make 
sure the cost of finance did not exceed  the two free services.  I consider it likely Ms J made  
a decision having  been told there were no penalties or administration  fees, that the two free 
services would be available to her and she would  not be financially disadvantaged. 
Had the dealership explained the interest that would  be due on early repayment I think  it 
likely Ms J would  not have taken out the finance option. So subject to any further  
evidence I might receive from either party Im minded to ask VFSL to cancel the 
agreement and to put Ms J in the position  she wouldve been in had the 
misrepresentation not been made. Ms J has settled the finance and has provided  a copy  
of her final statement.
Ms J said she would have  bought  the car outright  which would have been to pay the cash  
price of the car, £21,450.  She paid a deposit  of £10,000 and took £11,450 in credit.  
Between 11 January 2018 and 1 October  2019  Ms J made 21 payments of £263.59 
followed by a final payment of £7,536.89.  So Ms J has paid £23,072.28 to VFSL.  This is 
£1,622.28 more than the base price of the car. Ms J said she had the car serviced once 
and the dealership has confirmed the cost of the first service is £170. 
I concluded that, subject to further  information from either party I would be asking VFSL to 
refund £1,622.28 less the cost of the service,  which is a total of £1,452.28. And pay Ms J
£100 compensation. 
Ms J accepted my findings. VFSL disagreed and Ive addressed comments it made below. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I believe my provisional 
decision still stands. VFSL disagreed with my conclusions. It raised  two points of objection. 
58 days interest 
Ref: DRN62228885VFSL said:  
Under legislation, the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 lenders can 
charge up to 58 days interest on the amount remaining  if the customer wishes  to pay off 
the loan in full before the end of the agreed term.
There is no legal  requirement to specifically quote every right VFSL  has under the 
regulations. The mere fact the agreement is regulated under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 dictates  the agreement should be subject early settlement rules  and 58 days 
interest as per other  car finance agreements in the UK.  The interest  was always going  
to be charged but by repaying early VFSL give a rebate  which excludes the 58 days of 
interest.  If, as the provisional decision is suggesting, VFSL  would not be able to enforce 
its rights under  the act unless they have been specifically  explained to the customer, 
then it would make obtaining  finance  next to impossible   going  through the entire act 
with each customer  is not a reasonable expectation. 
Im not disputing VFSLs right to charge  up to 58 days interest on the amount remaining 
should a customer  wish to pay off the loan early. And I agree that it would not be reasonable 
to expect VFSL to go through the entire Act with each customer. 
Ms J said she specifically  asked if there  were  any added  administration  or early  repayment 
charges or penalties.  Im satisfied it was not Ms Js intention at first to take out finance and 
that she was inclined  to do so after the salesman  explained about the two free services. Im 
also satisfied that Ms Js testimony  concerning  requesting information regarding  early 
repayment is credible.  She wanted  the benefit  of the services  and she had the money  to pay 
for the car outright. 
I accept that the credit  agreement refers to statutory  rebate  but its not stated as clearly  as 
some other lenders do, for example there  is no mention  of CCESR or 58 days interest under 
the Early Repayment  section. So I would  expect, under the particular circumstance, where 
the consumer  has specifically asked about early repayment charges, the salesman to have 
outlined all appropriate  early repayment charges or penalties  including the 58 days interest. 
Without his direct testimony it is only possible for me to decide  based on the balance  of 
probability, what I believe most likely happened. 
Ms J said the salesman  assured  her there  werent any early  repayment charges or penalties.  
I also find it credible that Ms J said there was no point her taking out finance  if it was going to 
cost her more than the two services she was getting  free. She said she was particularly 
interested in reading the Early Repayment  sections on both the Pre-Contract Credit  
Information document and section 7 of the Hire Purchase Agreement document.  
Im satisfied therefore that in these particular circumstances it was reasonable to expect the 
salesman to have  explained the 58 days interest  after Ms J made early repayment enquiries 
and Im persuaded its likely he didnt.
Ref: DRN62228886settlement of agreement
VFSL also said:
 
The customer did not settle the agreement until almost two years had passed, the 
agreement specifically  quotes (in the first paragraph)  that it is subject to interest so to 
insist that all interest be repaid is completely unacceptable. 
The time at which the agreement is settled is solely under the control of the customer so 
any interest  accrued  in the interim is without doubt the responsibility  of the customer.  
It questioned why the customer will have taken  finance simply to benefit  from the free 
service plan only to delay paying the settlement for so long when  the agreement  clearly 
states they can make early repayment  at any time knowing they would be subject to 
interest.  
Ms J acquired the car in December 2017.  She asked about early  settlement and queried the 
calculation in February 2018. She said she was unable to do anything  about it due personal 
circumstances until June  2018, when she complained to VFSL.  Shortly after that she brought  
her complaint to this service. Ive seen  a copy of the final statement from VFSL. Ms J settled  
the account in October 2019.  It would  appear  Ms J was waiting for the complaint  to go 
through before settling the account.  She said the outstanding credit  was affecting her 
mortgage deal and as the complaint  was taking a long time to resolve she settled  the 
account in order  to move forward.  
Ms J referred her complaint to this service very quickly  after receiving the final response  
letter from VFSL so Im satisfied the delay in her settling the account is due to the complaint 
process and does not affect my decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
refund £1,452.28 (Total of Ms Js over payments less the cost of the first service);
remove any and all information relating  to this credit agreement from Ms Js credit file;
pay Ms J £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6222888