K820x#14Complaint
Miss W complains that the car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with Secure 
Trust Bank Plc (trading  as Moneyway) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Background
Miss W entered into an agreement with Moneyway  on 1 March 2019 to acquire a used car. 
She says that shortly  after acquisition she experienced  issues changing gear. She returned  
the car to the dealer but it said no fault could be found. The car was then inspected  by the 
main local dealership and an independent  inspection was carried out but the fault wasnt 
replicated. 
Miss W says there is an issue with changing  gears  and she has provided  video  evidence  of 
this.
Moneyway says that Miss W contacted it within  the first 30 days  of having the car to say that 
she was experiencing issues with the gearstick. She provided a short  video to support her 
claim. It says that the main dealer had inspected  the car but no fault was found. Miss W took 
the car to the dealer and Moneyway says it was told Miss W was observed while driving by a 
technician who thought the issue was with Miss Ws driving style.
An independent inspection was then carried out to assess the issue raised by Miss W. It 
says this didnt  identify a fault with the gear selector. Moneyway says that as no fault was 
found in any of the inspections it didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Our investigator didnt  initially uphold this complaint. He said that Moneyway had acted fairly 
by having an independent  inspection carried  out. This inspection didnt identify a fault, and 
as the other reports also hadnt found  a fault,  he thought it reasonable that Moneyway hadnt  
upheld this complaint.
Miss W didnt accept  our investigators view.  She said she didnt feel safe in the car and said 
she had provided  evidence of the issue. Following the view,  Miss W took the car to a garage  
and asked why it was hard to change in and out of gear. The garage identified that the clutch 
master cylinder was starting to loose pressure.
The new evidence was presented to Moneyway and it offered to cover  the cost of the repair  
in full and final settlement.  It also agreed that this could happen at Miss Ws choice  of 
garage. Miss W initially accepted this. However she then said that she should  be awarded 
compensation as the car had issues all along and it took a long time to get these addressed.
Moneyway didnt think that compensation was justified. It said that evidence of issues  wasnt  
provided until September 2019 and before that the reports  suggested no fault was present. It 
also noted that the evidence only said that the cylinder was starting to loose pressure not 
that it was faulty  or was faulty at the point of supply. It said it offered to cover  the cost of 
repair as a gesture  of goodwill.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64422982Miss W acquired  a used car through a hire purchase  agreement  with Moneyway. Under the 
regulations, Moneyway can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes into factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In 
this case the car was around six and a half years old.
Miss W raised  her concerns about the gear change shortly after acquisition. Therefore I find 
it reasonable that this was investigated to identify if there was a fault. The dealer said that 
Miss Ws car was booked in for 12 March and a courtesy car was provided.  It was unable to 
find a fault despite going on extended  road tests. Given no fault was found the car was taken 
to the main dealer for investigation. It was also unable to find a fault.
Miss W collected  her car following the investigations but shortly after said it wasnt going  into 
gear. A technician from the dealer accompanied her on a test drive. The technician didnt 
experience a fault when driving  the car and suggested the issue Miss W experiencing was 
due to her driving  style.  
Given the issue that had been  raised  and the timing of this, I find it reasonable that even 
though no fault had been found,  an independent  inspection was carried  out. This happened 
at no cost to Mrs W and again no fault was found. 
I have looked  at the video  evidence Miss W provided but I do not find that this is enough, 
given the other evidence  available, to say that Moneyway should have accepted there  was a 
fault present.  The evidence  available  to Moneyway when  it issued  its final response letter 
supported there being no fault present therefore I do not find that it did anything  wrong  by 
not upholding the complaint.
In September,  Miss W provided new evidence from a garage which said that the clutch 
master cylinder was starting to loose pressure. This information was provided around  six 
months after Miss W had acquired the car and only noted the master cylinder as starting  to 
loose pressure. It didnt  say the part was faulty  or that the issue would have been  present or 
developing at the point of supply. It did say the part needed to be replaced and on receipt  of 
this information  Moneyway  offered  to cover the cost of the repair.  I find this reasonable.
Miss W asked that the repair take place at the garage of her choice which  was agreed. 
Miss W then accepted this offer. 
Overall I find that this was a reasonable resolution to the issue  Miss W had faced.
Miss W then said that due to the time taken and stress involved in her complaint  she should 
also receive compensation. I can understand why she was upset that her complaint wasnt 
upheld sooner and feels that the issue was identified  in the end. However  I think Moneyway 
acted fairly  in this case. It is reasonable that it would rely on expert reports  and an 
independent inspection when deciding whether to uphold a complaint and until the new 
evidence was provided in September the evidence it had said there was no fault present. It 
acted quickly in response to the new evidence and offered to cover  the cost of repair even 
though it wasn't  clear  whether the fault was due to normal wear  and tear or if it was due to a 
fault present or developing at the point of supply.  In this case I think  Moneyway has acted  
fairly and I dont think that further compensation is required.
Ref: DRN64422983My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6442298