K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms A complain  about the service  they received from AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited  (AA) in relation to a home insurance claim for a kerosene  leak.
For ease, in my decision I will refer to AA when talking about their agents  or representatives.
background
At the beginning  of September  2018, Mr A put in a claim on their building  insurance  after 
they identified  a kerosene leak in their kitchen. On AAs instructions they asked a local 
company to assess the problem. The local company  attended the same  day and found 
significantly elevated kerosene  vapour  levels in the kitchen. So, it installed a vapour 
extraction unit as a temporary measure. 
Over the next month,  AA arranged for the local company and another  contractor to quote for 
the repair works. Eventually  it appointed  its contractor. In the meantime Mr and Ms A asked 
the local company  to come back and monitor the vapour levels.  The local company advised  
the vapour levels  remained  high and when works  begun, the kitchen would  be unusable. 
This information was shared with AA who offered to provide alternative accommodation. 
But Mr A and Ms A asked for a temporary  kitchen  to be fitted, which  was agreed. And the 
works were scheduled to begin at the end of October 2018.
Mr and Ms A were  unhappy with the amount  of time AA took to deal with the claim. 
They were  concerned that theyd been  exposed to potentially  toxic kerosene levels during 
this time and that AA had failed to monitor kerosene  levels. They  also felt the communication 
from AA had been poor. So, they complained. But when  they didnt get a response,  they 
brought their concerns  to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. They felt AA had acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with the claim. But Mr and Ms A didnt agree, so the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings  with AA and Mr and Ms A so they had the
opportunity to make any comments  or provide further evidence.  My provisional findings 
were:
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms A complained to us about the handling  of their claim up until they complained to 
AA. So, I dont intend to comment on anything that happened with their claim after this. 
Im sorry  to hear about  the kerosene leak at Mr and Ms As home. Problems such as this 
understandably cause a great deal of worry and stress. Mr and Ms A told us they developed 
sore throats and eyes as a result of the kerosene vapour. I want  to assure  them Ive taken 
into account the seriousness  of the problem  they were faced with. But whilst I think 
Ref: DRN60300892communication should have been better, I dont think AA handled  the claim unreasonably  
Ill explain  why.
risk to health
When the local company  attended initially, it identified  a high risk to human health from the 
kerosene vapour.  And it installed a vapour extraction unit in the kitchen to try and reduce 
levels. It recommended the air quality continued  to be monitored and if required, additional 
steps be taken  ie. more extraction units or alternative accommodation.
So, whilst some immediate measures were  put in place to reduce the risk, I think  its clear 
from the initial report that further action was needed.  But despite receiving this report within  
a few days, AA didnt  do anything further  until it got a second report  from the local company 
over a month later. At this point it offered Mr and Ms A alternative accommodation. 
Given this, I can see why they felt AA didnt do enough.
But in the early stages of the claim AA agreed  with Mr and Ms A that they could continue to 
work with the local company, and it wasnt until the end of September  it appointed its own 
contractor to take on the works. So, I think its likely and reasonable that AA understood this 
risk was being managed by the local company  until then. And given the local company 
continued to attend and check kerosene vapour levels throughout this time, it seems this risk 
was being monitored.
I noted that the local companys second  report shows  vapour levels  remained high despite 
the extraction  unit. And so, I can see that there was scope to take further action in this time 
to reduce the health risk. But I wouldnt expect  an insurer  to proactively seek updates  on this 
when their policyholder  was liaising directly with a local company. And I cant see that this 
issue was raised with AA before the second  report was sent. Whilst the initial  report stated 
other measures might  be needed, this was clearly dependent on the vapour readings. And I 
cant say AA did anything  wrong, as it would appear  it wasnt  informed the measures  werent 
sufficient. And Im satisfied that once AA did receive  the second report, it offered alternative 
accommodation as advised. 
Mr and Ms A have noted that AAs contractors report also identified a high risk to human 
health. And I can see it attended  after the vapour extraction unit was installed which could 
suggest AA should have  taken further  action at this point. But this report also said the risk to 
human health  was potential and it didnt recommend AA take any interim steps in relation to 
Mr and Ms As health (other  than to carry out the works). So, I cant  say AA acted 
unreasonably in not taking further action following receipt of this report.
Mr and Ms A have also raised  the point  that after the AA appointed its own contractor, it 
didnt arrange  to take over the monitoring of the vapour levels  nor replace  the extraction unit 
already onsite. But Ive seen no evidence  to suggest  this was raised with AA at the time nor 
that AA refused to cover any additional costs incurred with the local company as a result of 
this. So, whilst I appreciate that a handover  should  have  taken place, Ive seen nothing to 
indicate the delay to this had any substantial impact.
delays 
It took just under two months for the work  to start.  Given this problem affected the entire  
downstairs of their property and had health  implications,  I can see why Mr and Ms A felt this 
was too long. But AA told us that the escape  of kerosene is a complex matter  due to the 
Ref: DRN60300893environmental implications and the involvement  of specialists. And it felt the claim was dealt 
with in a reasonable timescale. 
Ive considered the progression of the claim and in doing so, Ive kept in mind that the 
evidence doesnt  suggest Mr and Ms A were without  essential amenities during this time.  
The initial report from the local company suggests they had use of their boiler and kitchen 
(providing they kept the room well ventilated). And as Ive mentioned  above,  I also dont 
think AA had any reason  to believe  their health  was at risk. 
Within a few days  of receiving the initial report on the nature of the leak and damage,  AA 
requested the local company provide a detailed quote for carrying out the necessary work.  
And I think this was reasonably prompt.  
A week and a half after being  provided  with this quote, AA asked one of its preferred 
contractors to also quote for the work. And it asked  a surveyor to attend the property too. 
I dont think a week and a half is an unreasonable length of time for a business  to review a 
quote for works  such  as this. I say this taking into consideration the specialist surveying and 
environmental knowledge required in considering this.
I appreciate that because  AA then decided a second quote was needed,  this caused further 
delay. Had AA always intended to obtain  another quote, then this could and should  have 
been done earlier - but the evidence suggests this decision  was based on the contents  of the 
first report. And as a business AA are entitled to get a second opinion if they feel its 
appropriate. So, I think they acted fairly here.
Im aware that AAs contractor and surveyor then attended the property within a week to 
assess the damage. Once again,  I think this is a reasonable timeframe considering the 
specialisms involved. I noted that it then took a further week for the contractor to provide 
their report  to AA. And again, whilst I appreciate  this is further  delay for Mr and Ms A, I dont 
think a week is excessive  given the report also quoted for the relevant works. Also,  within a 
day of receiving this report AA approved its contractor to undertake  the works. 
Which indicates  they were  attempting to progress the claim quickly.
As an aside,  Ive considered whether this quick approval time suggests AA could  have 
reviewed the initial  report more quickly. But by this time AA was familiar with the claim. So, I 
dont think the two assessments are comparable.
The contractor was then booked in to begin the works within three  weeks. Mr A told us this 
was the first available  date. And once again, given the specialists required to deal with this 
claim, I dont  think this wait is disproportionate.  I appreciate that the local company may have 
been able to undertake the works sooner, but I wouldnt expect a business to change from 
its preferred contractor unless the delays would be unreasonable. 
So overall, I dont  think the delay to the start of these works was unreasonable. And I dont  
think AA did anything wrong here.
communication
Mr and Ms A were  very unhappy with the communication  from AA. What I would expect of 
an insurer in circumstances such as this, is to keep the consumer  updated when there are 
significant developments in their claim. And having reviewed the evidence available to me, 
Im not satisfied AA always  did this.
Ref: DRN60300894For example, Mr and Ms A told us they only found out AAs contractor had been appointed 
when it contacted them directly. Mr and Ms A said they then tried to contact AA to discuss  
this but couldnt speak  with anyone until almost a week later because  their claim handler 
was on leave. They said they then asked for a follow up email which wasnt sent. And whilst I 
havent been able to get evidence of this call, I have no reason  to doubt their account  here.
Similarly, they expressed concerns that a week before the works  were due to start, theyd 
had no communication  about the storage of their items whilst the works were ongoing. 
And given  Mr and Ms A would need  to arrange to pack  and move these items, I do think this 
should have been arranged earlier.
And whilst I do think there is some evidence of good communication at other  points in the 
claim, overall, I think it could have  been  better. I dont think this changed the way Mr and 
Ms As claim was handled  as I cant see that the poor communication  led to delays. But I do 
think it caused additional stress  and upset at an already  difficult  time. Taking this into 
account, I think AA should  pay Mr and Ms A £100  for the distress caused. 
response to my provisional  findings
AA didnt respond to my provisional findings. But Mr and Ms A did - they raised several 
points which  they asked me to reconsider, including:
1.That the local company sent a report to AA at the beginning of September which 
wasnt reviewed by the specialist team until 15 days later.  Mr and Ms A felt this was 
too long considering the nature of the claim.
2.That it was unreasonable for AA to assume the local company were  monitoring 
ongoing kerosene vapour  AA didnt  request  this, Mr and Ms A did. 
3.That £100 for distress  was insufficient. Mr and Ms A noted  they were  not distressed 
but angry at the amount of time wasted attempting to communicate with AA. 
4.That we are unlikely  to ever know if Mr and Ms A suffered any permanent  lung 
damage as a result of the time taken before remedial work  commenced.
I appreciate Mr and Ms A disagree  with my findings in relation to both points one and two 
above. But I think Ive been clear in my provisional  decision  about why Ive reached the 
findings I have.  And theyve provided me with no further evidence or rationale  that 
persuades me to change my mind.  
As an aside  - I think its worth  stating that whilst the local company sent their report to AA at 
the beginning of September, they didnt send the corresponding  quote until three days  later.  
Meaning it was only 12 days between AA receiving the first quote  and requesting another. 
And Im still satisfied that thats a reasonable timeframe.
Regarding the third point raised,  I appreciate the Mr and Ms A dont feel the term distress  
accurately summarises the impact here. But anger  is a form of distress.  Ive used the term 
distress because this is the word  used within the rules our service operates  under, known as 
the DISP rules. Section 3.7 outlines  what we can make monetary rewards  for, and distress is 
the most  appropriate  term to summarise an impact  like anger. 
Mr and Ms A have also highlighted the time wasted  waiting  for calls from the insurer, some 
of which  didnt happen. I fully appreciate that dealing with this took up a lot of Mr and Ms As 
time. But I think this was largely  a result of having had the leak,  rather than a result of AAs 
Ref: DRN60300895mistakes. Whilst I appreciate its inconvenient,  its not unreasonable  that consumers must at 
times wait for calls from their insurer about their claim. And I think £100 award fairly reflects 
the specific impact when AAs communication fell below  the standards Id expect.  
Moving to point four - my role is to review  the evidence and decide if AA acted fairly in the 
circumstances. I would only consider the health  implications of the kerosene  leak if I felt AA 
dealt with this hazard  unreasonably. And for the reasons Ive outlined above,  Im not 
persuaded that it did. So, I wont  comment any further on this issue. 
Overall, Ive not seen  any further evidence that persuades me to change my findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I partially uphold this complaint. I direct AA Underwriting  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr and Ms A £100 compensation for the distress caused 
by its poor communication. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030089