K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a joint mortgage  with Lloyds in 2002. At the same  time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The policy covered Mr W against  being unable to work  due to accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  The monthly cost of the PPI policy  was £7.00. If 
Mr W had made a successful claim,  the PPI policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£627.35.The policy would also have  paid an additional £3.00  for every £1,000.00 of the 
initial mortgage. The monthly benefit  wouldve been  paid for up to 12 months per claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Mr and Mrs W during a meeting in 2002.  
Lloyds has been  able to give us a copy of the mortgage application form and the PPI 
application.
In the mortgage  application form there  is a section about PPI with a box two boxes, one to 
apply for PPI and one to decline it. I can see the box to accept PPI has been ticked. I can 
also see that the box to decline  the PPI has also been ticked but that has been  crossed  out.
Ive thought carefully about this, especially as Mr and Mrs W have told us they were told they 
had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage. And I accept this alteration could support their 
recollection. But equally it could be that Mr and Mrs W changed  their mind after discussing 
the PPI.
Mr and Mrs W also completed a separate PPI application form which has been  completed 
with their details and signed.
I also have to take into account  that the PPI premiums wouldve been  paid separately to the 
mortgage by direct debit.  And if Mr and Mrs W had only taken the PPI to get the mortgage  
I would expect them to have questioned or cancelled it at an early  stage  after the mortgage 
completed, but Ive not seen any evidence they did so.
I cant be certain of what was said during the course of the meeting. It may be the Lloyds  
adviser told Mr and Mrs W they should take out the policy,  but thats different to saying they 
had to. I accept its possible Mr and Mrs W were  told they had to have the PPI. But I think  its 
most likely they were made aware the PPI was optional and they chose to take it out. 
Although after so many years I can understand why Mr and Mrs W might not recall this.
Ref: DRN63401052Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because:
The policy covered Mr W only, and as he was the main wage earner this seems  to be a 
suitable way for the policy to be set up.
Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he 
didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And he wasnt  in an 
unusual employment  situation which might not have been covered.
Mr Ws employers  wouldve  paid him sick pay if hed become too unwell  to work. Mr W told 
us he was entitled to up to six months  full pay followed  by six months  half pay. But this 
particular policy wouldve paid a monthly  benefit  in addition  to any sick pay, and for up to 
12 months. This is longer than Mr Ws full sick pay would last. So I still think  Mr W wouldve 
found the benefit useful  if he became too unwell to work, particularly if he was unwell for a 
prolonged period.
And if Mr W lost his job the monthly  benefit would mean he could use any redundancy pay or 
for other living costs.  
I cant know after all these years exactly what Mr and Mrs W were told or given at the time. 
And its possible the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs W aware  the policy was optional and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Lloyds recommended  was 
right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Lloyds  
Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6340105