K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Arrow Global Limited didnt default two of her accounts when she 
entered into a debt management plan.
background
Miss F was suffering financial difficulties so she entered  into a debt management plan in 
January 2012.  She had debts on two store card credit accounts that were then transferred to 
Arrow Global   the first in December  2012  and the second in May 2013. The debts were 
settled by Miss F in January 2016  and April 2017.
She complained to Arrow  Global  in October 2018 that those accounts shouldve been  
defaulted when  she entered  into her debt management plan. It said that entering into a debt 
management plan wouldnt  automatically default an account. It said that the first account 
was paid off in full in January 2016 and the information reported to the credit  reference 
agencies has been updated and reported accurately. And it said that the second account 
wasnt defaulted due to it being part of a payment arrangement where  interest and charges 
werent applied  to the account. Miss F wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
debt on the first account decreased throughout the period that Miss F was on a debt 
management plan,  the repayment  agreement wasnt broken and the account  was settled in 
January 2016   which had been  reported  to the credit reference agencies.  And she said that 
Miss Fs repayment arrangement with the original creditor for the second account continued 
when the debt was sold to Arrow Global, the debt decreased throughout the period of her 
debt management  plan and was settled  in April 2017   which  had been  reported to the credit 
reference agencies.  So she thought  that Arrow  Global had reported an accurate reflection of 
Miss Fs accounts and she said that she couldnt  ask it to remove  that information.
Miss F has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
was in arrears prior to the debt management plan and the accounts shouldve been 
defaulted like her other debts. She says that when she contacted the original creditors  they 
said that the debts  had been sold to Arrow Global and it was responsible for amending the 
record. She says that as a result of the accounts  not being  defaulted shes being adversely 
affected for eleven  years rather than six years. And she refers  to a decision thats been 
issued by this service on another complaint in circumstances  which she says are the same 
as hers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F entered in to her debt management plan in January 2012. The first account was 
transferred to Arrow Global in December 2012 and Miss F continued  to make reduced 
repayments to the account which reduced  the outstanding balance  until it was settled  in April 
2017. 
Ref: DRN67638882The second  account was transferred to Arrow Global in May 2013 and was under a 
repayment arrangement. Miss F made those repayments so the debt on the account 
decreased until it was settled in April 2017. 
Theres no requirement for a creditor to default an account because a debtor  has entered  
into a debt management plan. Miss F was making repayments to both accounts and there  
was no requirement  for the original creditor or Arrow  Global to default either of the accounts. 
I consider that the information that Arrow Global has reported to the credit  reference 
agencies is a true and accurate record of Miss Fs payments on the accounts. 
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. But Miss F has referred to 
another decision thats been issued in circumstances that she says are the same  as hers. 
Ive read that decision and Im not persuaded that the circumstances are the same.  That 
decision relates to an account which shouldve been defaulted before the debtor entered into 
a debt management plan  and Ive seen no evidence to show that Miss Fs accounts 
shouldve been  defaulted before she entered into her debt management plan.
Although I sympathise with Miss F for the difficulties that shes experienced, Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Arrow Global has acted incorrectly  in 
its dealings with Miss Fs accounts.  And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to 
require it to amend  the information  about  the accounts that its recorded  on her credit  file  or 
to take any other action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763888