K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1995. Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI when he took out his 
MasterCard account.
background
In 1995 Mr W made an application for two cards through Barclays,  one Visa and one 
MasterCard account. They were taken  out at the same time, using the same application. 
Barclays said it looked at Mr Ws complaint for a Visa card some  time ago, however, it failed 
to consider the MasterCard account at the same time. It has offered Mr W £250 for this error,  
which Mr W has accepted. As the complaint for the Visa card has already been resolved, 
this final decision will focus solely on the PPI policy sold with the MasterCard  account.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ws complaint  for the MasterCard account  but didnt agree that 
the policy had been mis-sold. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I understand  that Mr W feels strongly about this matter  and I know this 
decision will be disappointing for him. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Barclays had to make  it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he had to choose  
to take it out. Mr W says he wasnt  aware that he had taken out this cover. Where there is a 
dispute, I need to consider what I think is more likely to have happened.
Barclays has given me a copy of Mr Ws credit card application form that was completed at 
the time.  This form includes a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to tick to show  
whether or not PPI was required. And the yes box has been  ticked.  If Mr W didnt want to 
take out the PPI he could have ticked the no box. Mr W has also signed  the overall 
application form which suggests he agreed  with everything that had been entered. 
So on balance, taking  into account everything  Ive been told and seen, I think Barclays  made 
it clear the policy  was optional and Mr W agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if 
he didnt want it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr W and as this puts a greater responsibility on it, 
rather than Mr W, I will also assess the complaint on this basis. This means Barclays  had to 
check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example, it appears he was eligible for the cover and he 
wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  such as unusual  
working arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition of which he was already  aware.
Ref: DRN64379102Mr W has told us that he would  have  received  at least six months  sick pay from his 
employer if he was too ill to work. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months  
and this would have been in addition to, and potentially for longer than, his sick pay. And it 
would have paid out for the same  length of time if he was to lose his job. As Mr W didnt  
have any savings or other means with which to meet his repayments if he wasnt earning,  I 
think this policy could  have provided  a useful  benefit to him.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems like it would  have  been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the PPI would have 
stopped him taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what he has said about being  able to 
ask his parents  to help meet his repayments  if necessary.  While I appreciate his parents  
would have wanted to help, support from others cant always be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change meaning  they are unable to provide  such financial 
assistance. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
Mr W has also queried why the PPI on his Visa account has been upheld  by Barclays  but the 
MasterCard account hasnt  he makes the point  that both accounts  were taken out at the 
same time and so should be considered in the same  way. Ive thought very carefully about 
his comments and I understand  why Mr W is frustrated with this situation. The complaint 
relating to his Visa account was handled  by Barclays  and resolved before  the matter  relating 
to the MasterCard  account was raised with us  Im not aware of the reason for Barclays  
previous decision.  But each complaint is reviewed based on its individual  merits and when 
reviewing the details provided  for the MasterCard  account, there  is no reason for me to 
uphold the complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6437910