K820x#14complaint
Mr S disputes he owes money on a credit card account Barclays  Bank UK PLC took over 
from another provider  and then transferred to a third party. 
background
Barclays said in its final response that it took over Mr S account from another provider in 
2011 when there was an outstanding balance of £2,488.12 on it. Some  payments were 
made into the account but it was closed  in June 2012 and a default recorded  in August 
2012. Its now transferred  ownership of the account  to a third party with an outstanding 
balance of £2,510.77. And its also removing Mr Ss credit facility  from another  account he 
holds with Barclays. Its paid him £50 compensation as its agent didnt record Mr S 
complaint in September 2018.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
The account statements show payments were made into it in November and 
December 2011 after it was transferred to Barclays. And as no more were received a 
default was rightly registered in July 2012.
Barclays was entitled to sell the account  to a third party.  It was also entitled to 
remove the credit facility on Mr S other card.
Mr S says the account transferred to Barclays in 2011 wasnt  his. But, it was in his 
name and has the same date of birth as is recorded on Mr S other  account.  Barclays  
also says Mr S contacted  it in December 2011 to change  the address on this account  
to the same one as on his other  account.  Given the time thats gone by Barclays 
cant provide a recording of the 2011  call but in April 2014 there was another 
conversation in which Mr S confirmed  hed lived at the address itd used. He also 
confirmed the account sounded  familiar.  Barclays also wrote to Mr S in 2012 about 
the accounts outstanding balance and the default. It used the address it had for him. 
Correspondence in 2014, also sent to Mr S current address, referred to him having 
three accounts including the account  in question  in this case. 
As the addresses  on both accounts were  the same its reasonable for Barclays to say 
the account in question  relate to the same customer, Mr S. Based  on everything its 
reasonable for it to have pursued  him for the outstanding balance on the account.
Mr S doesnt  agree  and remains unhappy.  Hes asked for an ombudsman review.  In 
summary he says he never  had the account with another provider that was transferred to 
Barclays in 2011.  He hasnt lived at some  of the addresses Barclays has used. On legal 
advice he will not provide evidence of his address over the past 23 years. Barclays has closed his account  and will not deal 
with him.
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Some of the evidence  in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made my decision  based on what I think  
is more likely  to have happened than not. 
Ref: DRN63319232I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same  reasons.
Mr S says he wasnt the holder of the account that was transferred  to Barclays in 2011 with an outstanding balance of 
£2,488.12. But taking everything  into account  I think the available evidence suggests  otherwise. 
The passage  of time has resulted in some evidence, like call recordings  and address  information, not now being available. 
Even so, I think there are enough similarities  in the details of the two account holders to suggest on balance that they are the 
same customer. There are common  names, dates of birth and address details. Theres also evidence  from Barclays that Mr S 
has acknowledged he lived at the addresses it was using and that the account details sounded familiar to him. He also didnt 
apparently question the reference to this account in correspondence from Barclays.
Taking all the available evidence  into account I think  Barclays  has acted reasonably  concluding that the account it acquired in 
2011 was in fact Mr S account.  And as money  was owed on it and payments werent made, it was entitled to enter the default  
and try to recover the money owed from Mr S.
Barclays was also entitled to sell this account to a third party and remove Mr S credit facility on another card. Those are 
examples of it exercising its commercial discretion which we wouldnt normally interfere  with.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr S frustration and strength  of feeling, I dont think  on balance  that Barclays has done anything 
wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably  require  it to do anything more or differently  as Mr S would  like. 
I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision  before 1 March 
2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6331923