K820x#14complaint
Mr K, on behalf of his wife Mrs K, complains that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) unfairly 
declined cover for claims made on a commercial property insurance and cancelled the 
policy.
background
Mrs K held a commercial property insurance  policy with UKI. She claimed for two incidents 
of damage to the property which she said had been  caused by children playing on its roof. 
UKI investigated the claims  but concluded the damage was a result of wear and tear, rather 
than malicious damage. And so UKI rejected both claims.
UKI also declared Mrs Ks policy  void  that is the policy was treated as if it never existed 
and all premiums paid were returned. This was on the basis that UKI considered Mrs K had 
deliberately not fairly presented the risk when buying the policy.  UKI said Mrs K had;
failed to declare  all those with a financial interest in the property, 
said the property  was fully occupied when  in fact it was empty.
said the property  was an office with flats above when in fact it was last operated as a 
pub, wasnt habitable and under renovation.
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had done anything wrong. He explained  why he didnt think 
Mrs K had made a fair presentation of the risk when  buying the policy. And so UKI was 
entitled to void the policy.
Mr K disagreed, saying  Mrs K had provided accurate information  and the damage was 
caused in the way she had described.  He asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law for this complaint is the Insurance Act 2015. This places an obligation  on 
the person taking out a commercial insurance  policy to make  a fair presentation of the risk to 
the insurer. This means that the insured person  must disclose every material  circumstance 
they know, or ought to know, or provide  enough  information so that an insurer can know it 
needs to make further enquiries. The main issues in dispute here concern the financial  
interest, property type and occupancy.
Declaring financial interest
Mrs K gave details of those with a financial interest  in the insured  property,  which appeared 
in the policy  schedule and statement of fact. But the property was registered  in Mr Ks name  
too and both he and Mrs K had jointly taken a loan to buy the premises. Im satisfied UKI 
acted fairly  in concluding that Mrs K failed  to declare all those with a financial interest. 
Property type and occupancy
Mrs K told UKI the property was fully occupied and described it as an office  with flats 
above. But this wasnt the case. The property had last been operating as a pub, although 
was unoccupied at the time Mrs K took out the policy.  The condition of the property was 
Ref: DRN64165972such that it couldnt be lived in and work was being  carried out to renovate it. Theres  also no 
evidence of there being any residential  element to the property when  she took out the policy.  
Im satisfied UKI acted  fairly in concluding that Mrs K failed to fairly present the type and 
occupancy of the property. 
The statement  of fact has a clear warning of Mrs Ks duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk, and to check the information for accuracy.  On balance, Im satisfied Mrs K didnt fairly 
present the information she should have when  she took out the policy.  Im satisfied UKI have 
acted reasonably in declaring the policy void because of Mrs Ks misrepresentations about  
the risk. If shed given  accurate answers to the questions  asked  about  property type and 
occupancy, UKI has shown that it wouldnt have sold the policy.
While Mr K disagrees with UKIs  conclusion about  the claims, UKI would  never have sold the 
policy to Mrs K had she fairly  presented the risk. So, the claim issues fall away  as theyd 
never have  been  considered. 
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6416597