K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage in 1986.  In 1998  he took out a further advance to the mortgage 
and it was when taking out this advance that he took out a PPI policy. He paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.
If Mr C had made a successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment, the policy 
would have paid out the repayment benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr C has said that the PPI wasnt discussed  with him and he was not made  aware that it was 
optional. Neither  Mr C nor Lloyds have much  of the information from the time of the sale, 
which is understandable considering how long ago this took place. So, where there  is limited  
information, I have to determine what I think is most likely to have happened in the 
circumstances. 
In order  for me to agree with Mr C, Id have to think it was more likely that Lloyds 
purposefully added the PPI to his mortgage without his knowledge. Whilst I agree this is 
possible, I dont think its the most likely  scenario. Instead, in the absence  of any information  
persuading me otherwise,  I think its more likely Lloyds  made  Mr C aware that he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and he chose to take it.
It also appears from the information  I have been given that Mr C didnt take out PPI with his 
initial mortgage in 1986  it was only when he wanted to take out additional borrowing in 
1998 that he took out the PPI. So I think Mr C would have known  that it wasnt a condition of 
the lending that he took out this type of cover. 
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more likely that Lloyds made  it 
clear the policy  was optional and Mr C agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
Mr C says he didnt receive any advice about the policy when it was sold. Lloyds no longer 
has a record of how the policy was sold but it has considered the complaint on the basis that 
it recommended the PPI to Mr C. As this puts a greater  responsibility on Lloyds, rather  than 
Mr C, and as it makes  no difference to my outcome, Ive also reviewed the complaint on the 
basis that advice  was given. This means  Lloyds  had to check that the PPI was right for him  
Ref: DRN65739092and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
it appears he was eligible  for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Ive noted that Mr C has told us that he was self-employed at the time of taking out the PPI 
and as a result he believes he would have been ineligible for the cover. Lloyds have been 
unable to provide  a policy wording from the exact date of the sale but it has referred us to 
terms and conditions that were issued later in the same year. I think that its likely, on a 
balance of probabilities, that these terms were the same as those issued to Mr C. From  
looking at this document, I can see that cover was provided for those who were  working on a 
self-employed basis and the requirements to make a claim were no more difficult than for 
those who worked under  a normal contract of employment. So this doesnt  make a difference  
to my outcome.
And it seems that he had a need for this type of cover. Mr C has told us that he wouldnt 
have received any sick pay, due to being self-employed, if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. But this policy could have  paid out the monthly  repayments  for up to 12 
months if he was too ill to work. While Ive noted  Mr C has told us he had some  savings that 
he could have used, this policy would  have enabled him to protect those savings or use them 
to cover other essential living expenses. So I think this policy could have provided him with a 
useful benefit  in the event  of long term illness or unemployment.
As I dont have all of the documentation from the date of the sale I dont know  what  was 
explained to Mr C about the policy. So its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But as I mentioned before I think its more likely 
that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think  better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019. 
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573909