K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with her home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in relation to a claim 
she made to it after her home suffered a water leak.
background
Mrs S found  a leak in February 2018,  she got it fixed and made a claim to UKI for the water  
damage. Some repairs were carried out but when  UKI looked at the damaged kitchen ceiling 
it felt it might  contain asbestos. Tests  were  done, asbestos was found and UKI removed the 
whole ceiling. 
On the day the ceiling was taken down, as the contractor was packing away, Mrs S noticed  
water coming from above. The contractor  said it was likely water stored from the original  leak 
that had now been released  by the ceiling being taken down. Mrs S accepted that view 
initially. However, later she spotted  water  coming  down again.  She believed  the contractor 
must have  knocked  a pipe when he took the ceiling down and told UKI this needed fixing.
UKI wasnt convinced its contractor had done any damage, not given his assessment about 
stored water being released. It said it needed to know there  wasnt  any leak before it could 
reinstate the ceiling.  UKI told Mrs S that if she carried out leak detection and found a water  
leak shed be reimbursed  the detection cost. 
Mrs S didnt feel able to fund the cost of those  investigations and told UKI that she hadnt  
seen any water leaking for a while, she said she felt the issue had likely resolved itself.  UKI 
agreed to reinstate the ceiling, on the basis that there  was no leak occurring. Around the 
time contractors were due to attend Mrs Ss home  Mrs S told UKI more water  had been  seen 
coming from above the kitchen. UKIs  contractors  attended and investigated to see if they 
could find the source  of the water. They reported  there was no sign of any pipe leak but they 
had noticed some wear  and tear issues in the bathroom. UKI said Mrs S needed  to fix these 
issues before it would reinstate the ceiling.  
Mrs S said there couldnt possibly be any issues in the bathroom. She said it was an 
expensive bathroom  installation and shed never had any issues with it. Moreover, the water  
problem had only occurred when UKI had been  working at the property. Therefore, it must 
have caused the problem.  
UKI accepted there had been  some delays with the claim and offered £400 compensation. 
But it wasnt  minded  to do anything more regarding  the ceiling reinstatement, until Mrs S 
fixed the issues in the bathroom. Mrs S complained to this service.
Our investigator noted there was no proof  that UKIs  contractor had caused damage when 
taking down the ceiling. She didnt think she could be satisfied that this was what  had most 
likely happened. She felt it was reasonable for UK it to ask for the bathroom issues  to be 
fixed and that its offer of compensation had been reasonable. 
Mrs S said she felt we hadnt really  understood her concerns. She told us shed had a 
plumber attend  her home but he couldnt  find a leak either. 
Ref: DRN67936402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mrs S, Im not persuaded to uphold  her 
complaint against  UKI. I think, with the exception of some delays, its handled matters fairly  
and reasonably. 
UKI, like most insurers, isnt liable for fixing leaks that occur  in a policyholders home. This 
policy does covers the cost of tracing and accessing leaks  when  such need finding.  And it 
seems this is what it was prepared to do here. But it seems that no leak  from a pipe or 
fixed water  apparatus  has been  found. 
Various people have  looked into the possibility of a leak but none have found any. If UKIs 
contractor had damaged pipework causing  a leak, then that would have been noted by now.
The fact the water coming from above was first noticed when the ceiling was taken down 
doesnt mean it was likely that contractors fault for it occurring. And the fact there  was no 
evidence on the ceiling  of water having  been leaking over an extended  period  doesnt 
necessarily mean that some water hadnt been  escaping before. Sometimes ceilings, and/or 
their finishing  coverings, mask water leaking from above, with the water  only coming through  
or causing staining when  sufficient amounts are present.
A bathroom having been expensive at installation  doesnt mean that component  parts of it 
wont fail over time. Grouting and sealant  do wear as time passes, with natural use. If a 
bathroom isnt sealed properly; because  water can get under a shower screen and/or 
through failed  grouting in floor tiles for example, water may well seep  through the floor into 
the void above the ceiling below and/or into the room below.   
Ultimately, if an insurer  is completing a repair it has to ensure that is long-lasting. And the 
fact of waterproofing issues being  present in the bathroom, in this case, means UKI cant be 
sure any work it would carry out wouldnt fail in the short-term,  if more water leaked.  So I can 
understand why UKI put a hold on its work whilst  asking Mrs S to complete  some repairs in 
the bathroom. 
I understand that not having  a kitchen ceiling for a prolonged  period has been frustrating for 
Mrs S. But I note UKIs offer of £400  compensation. Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances here.
Im aware that UKI might be prepared  to assist Mrs S by having its contractor carry out the 
repairs before reinstating the ceiling. There would, not unfairly,  be a cost to Mrs S for that. If 
Mrs S would like to explore that option  further she can contact UKI directly following  my 
decision. She might also want  to talk to UKI about what it would pay to her for the ceiling 
reinstatement work,  with a view to it paying  this to her in cash to enable her to complete that 
repair. It would then be up to her whether or not she resolves the other issues in the 
bathroom. 
Id add though that Mrs S should  be aware that UKI will likely keep a record of this claim. 
Should she have  a water leak through the kitchen ceiling in the future she may need  to be 
able to show it that; a) the damage  was caused  by something other than the wear  and tear 
issues identified during this claim; and/or b) that she had those issues  fixed. 
Ref: DRN67936403 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6793640