K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background 
Mr L was given five loans by Sunny between August 2015  and February  2016.  Each  of the 
loans was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments. Mr L repaid his first four loans well 
before they were  due. But he faced difficulties repaying his final loan. When  Sunny became  
aware of Mr Ls problems it stopped adding interest  to the loan and accepted  small monthly 
repayments from him. Sunny wrote off the large  outstanding balance in 2017. A summary of 
Mr Ls borrowing from Sunny is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 10/08/2015 26/10/2015 £ 850
2 29/11/2015 15/12/2015 £ 900
3 28/12/2015 15/01/2016 £ 900
4 24/01/2016 15/02/2016 £ 900
5 29/02/2016 - £ 900
When Mr L first complained to Sunny it concluded that it shouldnt have given him the first 
loan. So it offered to pay Mr L some  compensation. But it didnt agree that it had been wrong 
to give the remaining loans to him. Mr L didnt accept that offer so he brought  his complaint 
to this Service.
Mr Ls complaint was assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that the checks 
Sunny did before agreeing loans  2 and 3 were  sufficient. But he thought that Sunny should  
have done more checks before agreeing the last two loans. And he thought that better  
checks would have  shown  Sunny  that loan 4 was unaffordable for Mr L. So he asked Sunny 
to pay some further compensation, in addition  to what  it had already  offered to Mr L.
Sunny accepted those recommendations and calculated the compensation our adjudicator 
said was due. It said that it would use most of this compensation  to offset  the balance  on 
loan 5 that it had written  off and pay the remainder to Mr L. But Mr L wasnt  happy with that 
approach as he said the write off had already  happened before he made his complaint. So 
he didnt accept the proposed outcome. As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ref: DRN69601052It seems  to me that both Sunny and Mr L have accepted what our adjudicator  has 
recommended in terms of whether or not the loans should have been given. And so the 
matter that is left for me to decide  is whether Sunnys proposals in regards to the 
compensation are fair. But, for completeness  I have  also looked at the lending decisions 
made by Sunny. And having done  so I have reached the same conclusions as our 
adjudicator about  whether each of the loans should have been given.
Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr L 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr L was borrowing,  and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
Like our adjudicator, I see no need  to consider whether loan 1 should have been given. 
Sunny has already accepted that it shouldnt have provided this loan in its original response 
to Mr Ls complaint.
I think the checks that Sunny did on the next two loans were  sufficient. The repayments that 
Mr L needed to make each month appeared to be easily  affordable based on what  hed told 
Sunny about his disposable income. I do think that Mr Ls repayment pattern might  have  
started to cause some concerns to Sunny   on each occasion he had taken a loan over six 
months, but repaid it very shortly afterwards. But on balance I think it was reasonable here 
for Sunny to rely on the information  Mr L provided.
As I noted  above,  Mr Ls repayment behaviour was unusual. He repaid both his second and 
third loans just a couple of weeks after taking them, despite having  agreed to make  his 
repayments over a six month period. And within a couple of weeks  of his early  repayments 
he asked to borrow a similar amount again. So when this pattern was repeated at the time 
he requested loan 4 and loan 5 I think Sunny should  have done  additional  checks  such  as 
gathering more comprehensive details  of any other short term lending Mr L was already 
committed to repaying or, by loan 5, independently  checking Mr Ls true financial position.
Had it done those  checks before  agreeing  loan 4 I think Sunny would have  seen the extent 
of Mr Ls other short term borrowing. And it would  have concluded that he didnt have 
enough money left over to make the repayments he needed to make on that loan. But Mr Ls 
situation appears to have  been more stable the following month when he took his final loan. 
He owed far less to short term lenders  at that time so I think  better checks would still have 
indicated that he could afford to repay  the fifth loan.
So I too have  concluded that Sunny  shouldnt  have given loan 1 or loan 4 to Mr L. And so it 
needs to pay him some  compensation.  And from what I have seen, I think the amount of that 
compensation, as calculated  by Sunny, is a fair reflection of the interest and charges  that 
Mr L paid on those  two loans.
Mr L has had the benefit of the money that he borrowed from Sunny.  So I think it is entirely  
right and fair that he repays the principal that he borrowed. And I think the same  applies to 
the final loan that Mr L was given and that he failed  to repay.  I can see that Sunny wrote off 
that outstanding balance  well before Mr L made his complaint. But I dont think that means 
Sunny should  pay the compensation to Mr L in addition to that write off. The loans were 
taken as part of a single chain of borrowing. And some of my reasoning for the checks that 
Sunny needed  to make before agreeing the fourth loan was because of that chain of 
borrowing. So I think what Sunny has proposed  is both fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69601053putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to give Mr L loan 1 (borrowed on 10 August 2015) or 
loan 4 (borrowed  on 24 January  2016).  So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ls credit  file in relation  to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Mr L failed to repay what he owed to Sunny  on his final loan. Sunny wrote that balance off in 
2017. Sunny  may deduct the balance it wrote  off from the compensation that is due to Mr L. 
If any compensation remains, Sunny should  pay that remaining amount to Mr L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6960105