K821x#15Complaint
Mr O says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him mortgage payment protection  insurance  
(PPI).
Background
I recently set out my provisional decision on this complaint. It included the following:
Mr O applied for a mortgage  in 1992  and was sold regular premium PPI (branded by 
Nationwide as Mortgage Payment Cover and sometimes  referred to as MPC),  as a 
condition of it, to protect his mortgage  payments. Nationwide said the PPI was conditional for 
customers either borrowing the equivalent of over 95% of the value/purchase price  of their 
property or those who  like Mr O  wanted a fixed rate of interest. The PPI paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 24 months per claim if he couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr O disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Os case.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
It was for Nationwide to make clear to Mr O that the policy it was selling him was optional 
and get his agreement before adding it. Nationwide claims it did these things by setting out 
that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage  he wanted. It points, for example, to the 
mortgage application he signed as evidence in support of its position.
Looking at the mortgage application form, in the section  headed  Mortgage Payment Cover,  
Mr O was asked to tick if he wanted single or joint cover. The section for single cover  since  
the mortgage was in Mr Os sole name  was ticked. Also handwritten in the section was the 
amount £24.08,  which was the monthly  premium.
The form explained that:
 where the loan is over 95% of the property  value or purchase price,  whichever is 
lower, Mortgage Payment Cover is compulsory.
On the face of it, it might appear  from the form that Mr O was happy for the PPI to be added 
and that hed been made aware of the cost.  However, I still have a number of concerns 
about the way in which the PPI came  to be added and just how aware  of it Mr O was. 
Firstly, Mr Os said the tick on the form isnt his. He says it, and the monthly premium, were 
added after hed signed  the form and that he had no knowledge of the sale at the time. Its 
difficult for me to say for sure whether Mr O was aware that the tick had been made although 
that tick does look slightly different  to the others on the form. And the way in which  the PPIs  
sections worded suggests the form had still been properly completed even if Mr O had 
Ref: DRN60202432signed it with no tick in place whatsoever. That is, no tick was required for him to decline PPI 
either. Either way, Id say this evidence in itself isnt conclusive.
Whats more telling than the mortgage  application  form per se, I believe, is what  happened 
subsequently. Nationwides  Mortgage Input Form was dated around four weeks  after Mr O 
signed the mortgage application form and appears to be an internal transcription of the 
details recorded  on the application. The Mortgage Input Form  showed  two options 
regarding whether PPI was required   YES  and NO. The NO option was circled by hand 
indicating Mr O didnt want PPI.
Three days after the Mortgage Input Form was completed  Nationwide sent Mr O its Offer 
of Advance. The second page  of the letter included the following:     
As a condition of the Fixed Rate, the Societys  Mortgage Payment Cover and Room 
Cover building  and contents insurance must  be maintained  at least  during the Fixed 
Rate term If the borrower cancels the Direct  Debit, Automatic Transfer,  the Room  
Cover or Mortgage Payment Cover within the Fixed  Rate period, the fixed  Rate will 
cease to apply  (and cannot be reinstated).
Although PPI was referred to the covering letter,  in among other important information, I 
cant see any reference to it in the Offer  of Advance itself or the general conditions  included 
over the page.
Around a week  after the Offer of Advance was sent (and just over five weeks  after Mr O 
had signed the mortgage application form), Nationwide  issued a Notice  of Completion. This 
featured a breakdown of Mr Os monthly mortgage-related payments and included  PPI at 
£28.04 a month. It was at that point that Mr O says he first realised PPI had been added. Ive 
seen a copy of a letter he sent to Nationwide a few weeks later. In summary, Mr O 
complained:
He wasnt aware  the PPI was compulsory and might have approached another  
lender had he known.
The reference in the Offer of Advance  to mortgage payment cover  was 
understood to relate to another product and not PPI. The Nationwide 
representative Mr O had spoken  to agreed that the wording of the offer gave 
scope for confusion about that. 
In any case, the Offer of Advance was received just two days before the 
completion of his property purchase and so he was left with insufficient time to 
change course if he wanted to.  
Its not clear what happened as a result of Mr Os complaint but Ive seen a copy  of his letter  
dated towards what, I gather, was the end of the fixed  rate mortgage term in 1995. In it, Mr O 
asked Nationwide  to cancel his PPI premiums  from April 1995 onwards.
Taking all of the above into account Im satisfied  thats its more  likely than not that Mr O was 
genuinely unware that hed been sold PPI when he applied for the mortgage.  The complaint 
letter represents strong evidence from the time that Mr O was unhappy  with the PPI and that 
it was effectively too late for him to do anything about it. I find it telling that Mr O cancelled  
the PPI at the first realistic  opportunity  namely when his fixed rate term was coming  to an 
end and he no longer stood to be penalised  for doing so.  
Ref: DRN60202433Further, Nationwide accepts there were two situations in which  PPI was a compulsory  part of 
the mortgage. One depended on the amount of borrowing in relation to the value of the 
property. The other situation was where  access to certain fixed  rates  was to be gained.  
While the mortgage  application form referenced the former, it didnt explain the latter   which  
was most relevant  to Mr O. So I can see why he might not have realised PPI was 
compulsory for him or that it had been  added.
Ive carefully considered  what Nationwides said about how Mr O came to be sold PPI. 
Nevertheless, I currently believe Mr Os lost out and that Nationwide should put things  right 
for him.
Putting things  right
Nationwide should  put Mr O in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. I gather  
the policys been cancelled already, so Nationwide should:
Pay Mr O the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. It can also deduct anything  it might 
already have paid him regarding unfair commission and profit  share.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold  this complaint. I intend to require  
Nationwide Building  Society to put things right for Mr O as explained above.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. Mr O said he had nothing  further  to add to my provisional 
decision. 
Nationwide said it didnt  accept my provisional decision. Among other things, it considered  
Mr O would have been told the PPI was a condition of his mortgage by the adviser  or, at the 
very least,  was made aware  that was the case via the Offer of Advance. It provided another 
copy of the Offer of Advance  with the pages  in the order it says they would have been sent 
to Mr O in 1992.
Nationwide questioned what response  Mr O got to his letter of complaint in 1992. It 
suggested hed have been given  the option  to cancel the PPI and move to another mortgage 
product and likely decided against doing so. This, it suggests, shows  Mr O wanted the PPI in 
order to benefit  from the fixed  rate mortgage.
Ref: DRN60202434My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Os case.
Regarding the Offer  of Advance Nationwides sent, I dont think  the order  of the pages 
makes a significant difference to how Mr O would have processed the information included. 
It remains, in my view, that neither the letter, nor the offer itself, made it clear that PPI had 
been compulsorily added  as a condition of the mortgage. This was significant  information but 
was not given sufficient prominence in relation  to all the other information that was provided. 
In terms of the response to Mr Os complaint letter,  the fact is I havent  seen any evidence as 
to what that might have  been  or that Nationwide responded at all. What we do know, 
however, is that Mr O kept the PPI in place until the first opportunity  he had to cancel it 
without penalty.
We can speculate as to why Mr O kept the PPI (and mortgage product) for as long as he did. 
But I consider Mr Os explanation here to be plausible and persuasive.  Ive kept in mind that 
he was buying  a property and can well imagine that his priorities  lay  quite reasonably  in 
not doing anything to jeopardise the purchase. Its likely hed have viewed  cancelling  the PPI 
and trying to move to another  mortgage product, or potentially  another provider altogether, 
as simply too risky at such a late stage. That didnt mean he was aware  the product had 
been added  in the first place or was initially told he had to have it if he wanted  the mortgage  
he took out.
Taking everything into account,  including Nationwides response to my provisional decision, I 
still believe  it mis-sold  the PPI to Mr O.   
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide Building 
Society to put things  right for Mr O as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6020243