K822xcomplaint 
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr and Mrs S took out, will continue  to cover 
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr and Mrs S. It has 
accepted the information  it gave Mr and Mrs S about the policy  wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. And RSA has offered to pay them £500  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
theyve been caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us theyre not happy with the offer RSA has made because no other 
insurer will cover their pets pre-existing conditions now,  so they have  no choice but to keep 
paying the increasing premiums if they want their pet to be covered. They  feel RSA should  
consider capping the premiums to make them more  affordable, particularly given their 
uncertain financial position moving  forward.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Ss policy is too high, they should have been charged less 
for the policy or that they should  be charged less in the future.
While Mr and Mrs Ss premium has seen  significant  increases, I havent seen any evidence  
to suggest RSA has treated them differently to how it would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant tell RSA to charge  them  a lower  premium going 
forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr and Mrs S a significant amount of distress as, due 
to the medical  conditions  their pet now has, they cant find equivalent cover elsewhere.  And I 
recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years mean they may not 
be able to afford to continue with the policy, particularly given the financial circumstances 
theyve told us about.
Ref: DRN67288402But the thing RSA did wrong was to not give Mr and Mrs S the information they needed to 
understand they could end up in the position  they now find themselves in. Where I find 
something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a 
consumer has lost out.
If Mr and Mrs S hadnt taken a lifetime  policy, they wouldve  either had no cover at all, and 
would have had to pay for all their pets treatment themselves, or a reduced level of cover, 
where they would  still have  found  themselves in a situation where  their pets  conditions  were 
no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr and Mrs S having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed or capped  premium  
this type of policy typically doesnt exist.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to put them  in this 
position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr and Mrs S have 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mr and Mrs S for the 
trouble and upset  theyve  been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6728840