K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) wont refund him the money he 
lost as a result of a scam.  
Background
What Mr B says
Mr B says he saw a motorbike he liked on an online auction site and contacted the seller  by 
email on 14 February 2019.  The seller  responded and said the motorbike had belonged to 
her mother  who had recently died. She provided details about the motorbike and a copy  of 
her passport. Mr B was keen to buy the motorbike and asked the seller  what he needed to 
do. The seller  explained that the payment would go through the online auction site/A  (an 
online payment  provider) and that she would then be paid fourteen  days  later if the bike was 
as described. Mr B looked up A and was satisfied it was a legitimate payments platform. 
On 20 February 2019 Mr B received an email from A thanking him for using  its escrow  
secure payments  service. The email confirmed Mr B was dealing  with a verified seller and 
was eligible for Buyer  Protection if he completed the purchase through  A Escrow. This 
protection meant that if the item didnt  arrive  or wasnt  as described Mr B would get a full 
refund. The email set out the steps  Mr B would  need  to take, which  included  making  a bank 
transfer to the account details provided. 
On 20 February 2019 Mr B completed a transfer of £5,000 to buy the motorbike,  as directed 
in the email from A. But on the expected delivery date the motorbike wasnt  delivered, and 
Mr B became concerned. He emailed  the seller and was told to wait until the following day 
and if the motorbike didnt arrive the seller  would reimburse him. Mr B then emailed the 
genuine email  address  for A and was told hed been  the victim of a scam. A said it was 
aware that fake emails were being sent in its name  requesting the recipient transfer funds. A 
said,
The emails appear to be coming from [online auction site seller  name]  and are requesting  a 
payment through "[A] Escrow".
These emails are a form of phishing; the sender  is requesting to wire funds to a bank 
account that is not related  to [A].
Mr B contacted the seller to say hed been  the victim of a scam. The seller  said shed 
reimburse Mr B but didnt  do so and didnt communicate any further  with him. Mr B also 
called Tesco, which told him that as the payment hadnt been made by card it couldnt help 
him. 
What Tesco  say
Tesco told Mr B the chargeback scheme only applies to card payments and so it couldnt  
help him. Tesco went on to say that if Mr B considered hed been  misled or scammed and 
will not receive the motorbike he should  speak to the online auction site and report the 
matter to the police.  But as Mr B hadnt  used  a card to make  the purchase  Tesco  was unable  
to assist any further. Tesco also said it was unable to consider fraud  as Mr B made  the 
payment willingly.  
As Mr B was unhappy  with Tescos response, he brought a complaint to this service  to 
consider. 
Ref: DRN69099892Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the £5,000  payment wasnt  unusual or 
out of character given Mr Bs normal account  and payment  history.  This was particularly  so 
given that Mr B bought another motorbike in January 2019 for around  £4,000.  
The investigator also considered whether Tesco did enough to try to recover Mr Bs funds 
once it was notified of the fraud.  Although he felt Tesco  hadnt  done what hed expect once 
Mr B contacted it about the fraud, the investigator said that even if it had he didnt  consider  
Tesco would have  been able to recover Mr Bs funds. This was because Mr B first contacted  
Tesco four days after the payment was made and so it was unlikely the funds would still be 
in the receiving account. In addition, Mr B had made  an international payment so the rules 
that apply if a payment is made  to a UK bank arent  relevant.  International payment returns  
relied on the receiving  account holder being  happy  to return  the funds. 
Mr B didnt accept what the investigator said and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He 
said:
-He made  a large payment  to an account  outside  of the UK, which  Tesco should have 
questioned.
-Tesco didnt investigate or look in to his concerns.
-Hes saddened by what has happened, especially as the funds were  left to him by his 
dad to buy a motorbike. 
I reviewed the file Tesco provided and established  it didnt start a fraud investigation  or take 
any steps to contact the receiving bank when Mr B contacted it. Tesco told me this is a 
buyer/seller dispute rather than fraud.  The fact the seller was in contact with Mr B when the 
motorbike didnt arrive wasnt consistent  with a scam. Tesco  also said the payment wasnt 
unusual or suspicious. Tesco said Mr B should have contacted the seller  and made payment 
through the online auction site, and that what the seller told Mr B wasnt incorrect  in that the 
online auction site has used A to process  payments since 2018. Finally,  Tesco  referred to 
The Lending  Standards Boards Contingent  Reimbursement Model (CRM)  Code for 
Authorised Push Payment Scams.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 January 2021. In it I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN69099893The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although  not 
necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of its customer.
Regulated firms like Tesco  are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to:
Identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those  at risk of financial  exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016  report improving  outcomes for customers  in vulnerable 
circumstances); and
Look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations  were involved 
in the development  of).
Did Tesco act fairly and reasonably in Mr Bs case?
Tesco has referred  to the CRM Code, but this doesnt apply to payments before 28 May 
2019 so isnt relevant to this case.  
I consider that as a matter of good  practice Tesco  should have been on the lookout  for out of 
character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered whether the £5,000 payment 
request Mr B made was out of character and unusual. I dont consider it was and will explain 
why. 
Mr B made a payment for another motorbike for over £4,000 in January 2019. Given  this, I 
cant reasonably  conclude that a similar payment a few months later was unusual or out of 
character. I accept that Mr B hadnt  previously made an international transfer,  but I dont 
consider this point  alone is sufficient to conclude Tesco should have asked Mr B some 
questions before making the payment. Im also mindful of the fact Mr B made a single 
payment and that after it he was left with a balance of over £600,  which  wasnt unusual for 
his account. So I dont consider Tesco should have flagged the payment. 
Ive gone on to consider Tescos actions once  Mr B notified it of the fraud. To help me, Ive 
listened to the call Mr B made when he first contacted Tesco.  Mr B explained hed been the 
victim of a scam. He gave details of the motorbike that was meant to have been delivered 
that day and explained it hadnt arrived as expected. Mr B also explained the motorbike  was 
being advertised on the online auction site again  at a lower  price and with a different email 
address. Mr B was told that as he made the payment willingly and didnt pay by card Tesco 
couldnt help him. Mr B was told the disputes team would  contact him the following day. 
Ref: DRN69099894Mr B called Tesco again the following day. He said the seller claimed shed been scammed  
and asked if it was safe to provide  her with the IBAN  number. 
I dont consider that when Mr B reported  the scam it was reasonable to conclude  he was 
discussing a buyer/seller dispute,  particularly given the limited  information Mr B was asked 
to provide in that first call. Mr B told Tesco hed been scammed, that goods he expected  to 
receive hadnt arrived and gave other information  that suggested the seller  didnt have a 
legitimate product to sell. In the circumstances I think  Tesco should have started a fraud 
investigation and contacted the receiving bank abroad.  
The difficulty  I now have is that I dont have any information about what would have 
happened if Tesco had contacted the receiving bank abroad when I consider it should have, 
so I need think  about what is most likely to have happened. During my investigation  I asked 
Tesco to contact the receiving bank. On 2 September 2020  Tesco  confirmed it had 
contacted the receiving  bank but not received a reply, and this continues to be the case.  This 
is not unusual  when contacting receiving banks abroad. I must also bear in mind the fact the 
payment was made on 21 February and Mr B contacted Tesco about it on 25 February 
2019. Fraudsters generally withdraw funds as soon as they are received,  so I find it unlikely 
funds would have  remained  in the account four days later. 
Given the above points, I believe its more likely than not that even if Tesco had contacted  
the receiving bank as expected it would have been  unable to recover Mr Bs funds. The 
arrangements in place in the UK for the recovery of funds dont apply to international 
payments. For international payments the cooperation of the recipient account holder is 
needed to recover  funds. As the payment was made to a fraudster, I dont consider the 
recipient of Mr Bs funds  would have helped to return them to him.
I think Tesco has caused Mr B unnecessary additional stress and inconvenience by not 
dealing with his fraud claim and taking the appropriate steps. As a result, I consider Tesco 
should pay Mr B £200 compensation to reflect this.
Tesco agreed with my provisional decision.  It said the service Mr B received when he 
reported the fraud wasnt to the standard it would  expect,  and Mr Bs claim could have been 
brought to a close  much sooner.  
Mr B didnt accept what I said in my provisional decision. He said he was disappointed 
Tesco didnt  see his payment as unusual,  particularly as his only other large payment was a 
card payment and not a transfer. He went on to discuss  the difficulties he experienced with 
the first motorbike he bought. Mr B said he thought Tesco was liable because he 
commented that my provisional decision said Tesco didnt check where  his funds were going 
and had it done so the payment  would have been  stopped. Finally, Mr B asked what the 
£200 payment  was for. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and taken in to account  the same  
considerations as I did when  I issued my provisional  decision. Having done so, Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
I can understand why Mr B is disappointed that Tesco didnt flag his £5,000 payment and 
ask him some  questions  about it, but as I explained  in my provisional decision, I consider 
Ref: DRN69099895Tesco acted  reasonably in not doing  so. Mr B had made a payment shortly before for a 
similar amount  and so I dont think the payment  was unusual or out of character given his 
previous account  activity.  Whilst  there  were  some differences,  such  as the fact the previous 
payment wasnt a transfer,  I dont consider there  was enough going on here for Tesco to ask 
Mr B more  about the payment.  
Mr B discussed in his response problems he had with the previous  motorbike  he bought. I 
cant consider these comments as part of this complaint about the £5,000  transfer he made  
in February 2019.
Mr B is mistaken in saying  my provisional decision said that Tesco didnt check where his 
funds were going and had it done  so his payment would have been stopped. I said in my 
provisional decision that Tesco acted reasonably in not asking Mr B questions about  the 
purpose of his payment and where  he was sending his funds and didnt comment on what 
might have happened if it had. Its possible that even if Tesco had asked the proportionate 
questions Id expect  it to ask if a payment  is unusual  the scam wouldnt have been 
uncovered and the payment would  still have been  made. But Ive not considered  this aspect 
because Ive concluded that Tesco acted  reasonably in not asking questions. 
Ive asked Tesco to pay Mr B £200 for the additional  stress  and inconvenience it has caused  
him. The scammer in this case has caused most of the stress and I cant  hold Tesco  
responsible for this. But I dont consider Tesco treated Mr B well when he reported the scam 
to it, and this caused him additional unnecessary stress and inconvenience. Mr B was 
essentially told Tesco couldnt  help, when  there  were steps it could and should have taken to 
try to recover his funds.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Bs disappointment,  I consider Tesco  acted reasonably in not 
asking questions about his payment. Tesco didnt do what Id expect when Mr B reported  the 
scam, but I consider that even if Tesco had it wouldnt have been able to recover  Mr Bs 
funds. But I think Tescos  actions caused  Mr B unnecessary additional stress and 
inconvenience and that it should compensate  him by paying  him £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  pay Mr B £200 to compensate  
him for the additional stress and inconvenience  it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909989