K822xcomplaint
Mrs S has complained about the stress and worry caused to her by her bank TSB Bank  plc 
when it changed  her address in its records, without her request or consent,  to an address 
that was unknown to and unconnected  with her. 
background 
The address  change,  which occurred  around the time Mrs S reported her bank card lost, 
caused Mrs S considerable worry when she became aware  of it. It also caused her the 
trouble of visiting the branch to sort things  out and of phoning the police, as TSB 
recommended, to report a potential fraud.  
Mrs S thought the bank had corrected the address details  only to see her address still mis-
stated, though less radically, on a statement issued a few days after the supposed 
correction. 
Mrs S said she also (a) had difficulty  reinstating her phone banking service with TSB after it 
was blocked and (b) received a letter from TSB in an Air France envelope, which  caused  her 
further concern.  
TSB said it couldnt be sure but it thought the address change came  about through  human 
error. It also regretted not correcting the address completely  on the first occasion. 
TSB said it had corrected Mrs Ss credit  file and that no products had been applied  for in 
Mrs Ss name, nor had any correspondence  been sent by the bank to the false  address. So 
there was no reason  to suppose Mrs S had been  the victim of any fraudulent  activity  or that 
any confidential information had been  disclosed. 
TSB also said it had no record of Mrs S trying  to reinstate her phone  banking service.  The 
service was blocked around the same time as the main events, to forestall any fraudulent 
activity. TSB said Mrs S hadnt used the service in the past. 
TSB couldnt explain the Air France envelope,  but since it apparently  only contained a copy  
of a letter TSB had previously sent to Mrs S, the bank couldnt understand why it should  
cause Mrs S the degree of worry that she said it did.
TSB has offered Mrs S a total of £275  as compensation. Our adjudicator  thought this was 
fair in all the circumstances. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said it didnt adequately compensate her for the weeks  of stress and 
worry to which the banks actions had subjected  her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I too 
have concluded  £275 is fair compensation in this case.
I can understand the concern that Mrs S felt when she realised  her address had been 
changed in TSBs records without her permission. Theres no dispute this was a serious 
mistake for the bank  to make. The question is what the fair compensation should  be.
Ref: DRN65328842While I think most people  would be very worried to discover what Mrs S discovered, like the 
adjudicator I also think  its relevant that Mrs S suffered no financial loss or breach  of 
confidentiality as a result of what happened.  
Mrs S has said it took weeks before she received  confirmation shed suffered no financial  
harm. But proving a negative  can of course  be difficult. Meanwhile there was no indication  
that Mrs S had indeed  suffered any harm. 
All things  considered, Ive concluded TSB has made Mrs S a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. 
my final decision
TSB Bank plc has offered  Mrs S £275 compensation to resolve her complaint, which I think 
is fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6532884