K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Ms M opened a store card account in a shop in March 1992.  FICLs records show that PPI 
was added to her account in April 1997,  following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Ms Ms card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont  know what was said to Ms M about the PPI during the phone  call when the policy 
was sold. FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a recording of the call, and I dont think  thats  
unreasonable, given  that it took place more than 20 years ago. 
Ms M says she was unaware  that PPI had been  attached to her store  card, and didnt 
agree to take the policy.  But at the point when the PPI was added, shed already had the 
account for more than five years. I think its unlikely, in the circumstances, that shed 
have thought  that the cover was compulsory. And based on what  we know  about  how 
FICL sold these  policies at around this time and everything weve  seen in the past, I think  
its more  likely than not that it would have  made  it clear during the phone call that PPI 
was optional and that Ms M would have been asked to agree to the cover if she wanted  
it.
Ive also borne in mind that once the insurance  was added to her account, monthly 
premiums would have started to show on Ms Ms store  card statements. If she hadnt  
wanted the insurance, or wasnt aware  that shed  taken  it out, I think  its likely  shed  have 
queried this at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms M decided to take out 
the cover, knowing that she didnt have to  although I can understand why she may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
Ref: DRN66042202FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M. So it didnt have to check  that it was right for 
her. It was for Ms M to decide  whether to take the cover, knowing what other means 
shed have had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was off sick, or if she 
lost her job. But FICL did have a responsibility to give Ms M clear  enough information to 
enable her to decide  whether  the policy was right for her.
I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Ms M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. But I think she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now.  Based on 
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms M was eligible to take out the 
policy. And Ive seen nothing to suggest  that it was unaffordable  for her.
I acknowledge that Ms Ms told us shed have been entitled to sick pay from her 
employer at the time. But if shed made  a successful claim on the policy  for accident,  
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit  15% of what she owed  
on her store card. And it would  have done  this each month until her credit  agreement 
ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance  at the time of her claim had 
been repaid- whichever was the earliest.
The PPI policy would  potentially  have  covered Ms M for longer than shes  told us shed 
have been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats  more, it would  have paid out in addition  to 
any payments she received from her employer, allowing  her to use those to cover other 
day-to-day expenses.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI policy could have been useful for Ms M, 
particularly as shes told us that aside from payments  from her employer, she didnt have 
any other means she could have  used to make her monthly store  card repayments if 
shed been off sick, or if shed  lost her job.
Based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms M doesnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example,  
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So taking everything 
into account, Im not convinced that better information about  the PPI would have put 
Ms M off taking  it out. This means  I dont think shes lost out as a result  of anything that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6604220