K820x#14complaint
Ms M feels that Go Car Credit Limited  has treated her unfairly in financing  a car for her of 
unsatisfactory quality  which she wishes to reject.
background
Ms M acquired  a second-hand car through a hire purchase agreement in November 2018. 
At the time of its purchase it was over six years  old and had driven over 71,000 miles.
On the sales documentation notes there are no significant faults  noted  with the car. Ms M says 
within days the engine  management light (EML) was on and that the car lost power going 
uphill. Ms M says shed  taken it to the garage repeatedly but now wants to reject the car.
Go Car says that the car has had an independent report which  said there  were  no significant  
faults at point of sale and that any of the minor issues  that the car may have  had have been  
fixed. Ms M hasnt collected the car from dealership and has returned  the documentation.  Go 
Car note that shes in arrears on her finance on the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M didnt agree and as she remains  unhappy 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory (as some  of it is here)  I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Go Car are the supplier of the car under the Hire Purchase Agreement  and so are 
responsible for handling complaints about the quality  of the car it supplied. And the relevant 
law says that the goods (a car in this case)  needs to be of a satisfactory  quality. The relevant 
law also says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory considering any description of the goods, the price  and 
all the other  relevant circumstances.  On this basis if I thought  the car was faulty  when 
supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory quality, Id think it fair and reasonable 
to ask Go Gar to put this right. But Go Cars responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst 
they are responsible for its condition at the point of supply,  they are not responsible for faults 
that develop afterwards such as those relating to wear  and tear.
Ms M has said that she complained only a few days after taking the car in November 2018 
about faults she says the car had. And I can see that the dealership  confirmed to her it was 
willing to have the car so it could carry out repairs to it. An appointment to do this was 
agreed but Ms M didnt return the car for repairs at that time. In December Ms M contacted  
Go Car and explained the EML was still lighting  and that there was an unusual noise from 
the engine and the gears were hard to use. She said the dealership  had changed the 
gearbox oil and refuelled the car for her.
Ref: DRN69259082As Ms M said issues remained Go Car offered to pay for a diagnostic report  which  was then 
carried out. This noted five potential reasons why the EML was illuminated  but didnt 
conclude any were  actual  faults-just potential reasons  for the light going on. 
There then followed a period of back and forth, during which the car was being used daily 
and covered nearly 8,000 miles. During this time there were some  calls, periods of nothing 
happening and a further inspection by the dealership.  Ms M contacted this service and in 
August 2019 saying  there were still problems  with the car (especially driving uphill) and that 
shed left it at the dealership as she didnt  want  it anymore. So, our investigator asked Go 
Car to organise and pay for an independent  report into the quality of the car.
An independent inspection and road test of the car was carried  out. The inspectors said the 
car performed and handles as expected. They did note slight  brake contact/grinding under 
application, but they suspect this is due to flash corrosion from the vehicle being stood idle. 
The inspection was unable  to identify any faults  with the vehicle and the car performed as 
expected. The inspectors  confirmed they felt no faults wouldve  been present at the time of 
sale of the car to Ms M.
Considering all that has been  said and done there are persuasive reasons why this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. These include that the independent  report  showed no 
significant faults with the car and deemed  it of satisfactory  quality at the point Ms M took it. 
The dealership has looked at the car at different times and the minor  issues found seem  to 
have been resolved (the addition of gearbox oil being an example). The car was in 
continuous use and covered significant  mileage over a significant period. I do appreciate that 
a warning light coming on could be disconcerting for Ms M. But it is clear  that the car was 
working well after the minor issues were  resolved.  And keeping in mind my earlier  
comments, all of this is in the context of a used  car which was several years old with 
significant mileage.  So I think that although there had been minor issues with the car, I am 
not persuaded that this meant the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at the time of its sale.  
Consequently, I dont think Ms M is entitled  to reject  the car as Im not persuaded that the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  within thirty days of it being sold. I think the car was of 
satisfactory quality when Ms M took it and any minor  issues there were have been fixed 
which is fair. So, Im not persuaded that this complaint should succeed. So, I dont think Go 
Car have  anything further to do here.
In the phone conversation in response  to the views of the investigator Ms M pointed to the 
initial report saying it had found a few causes  of the EML being illuminated.  But this isnt the 
case-the report suggested potential causes  of the light being  lit but it didnt decide that those 
were actual faults with the car.
Ms M has left the car at the dealership and is in arrears on the agreement. It would  appear  
likely that Go Car will act regarding the costs  for the car and the arrears. I think it would be 
wise for Ms M to contact  the business to discuss a way forward.  And if Ms M is in difficulties 
paying the debt then Go Car should  be sympathetic to this.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Ms M wants to hear. But I see no persuasive reason to 
uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN69259083my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Go Car Credit  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6925908