K820x#14complaint
The trustees of B, a small  self-administered scheme  (SSAS)  have complained  about  
Chryson Limited. In summary, the trustees  say:
Chryson opened contracts for difference (CFD).trading  accounts  for the trustees,  and 
then proceeded  to trade making  largely  unsuccessful trades.
Chryson charged large  and unfair commissions  on every  trade,  regardless whether 
they were successful or not. The trustees werent made aware  of, and didnt consent  
to, Chryson receiving and retaining the commission.  
Chryson didnt consider the trustees needs,  nor the implications of transferring their 
pension funds.
The transfer and CFD trading exposed the pension  funds to significant risk, of which 
Chryson didnt fully make  the trustees  aware.  It would have been clear  the trustees  
had limited understanding of the risks involved in CFD trading.
The members were  low risk/cautious investors and wouldnt have gone ahead  if 
theyd understood  the high risks involved.   
The money traded in the CFD account  represented about  50% of the pension  fund. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in June  2019 (copy attached).  
Both parties  have confirmed they have nothing  to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as Ive not received anything that 
causes me to alter the findings I set out in my provisional decision,  my opinion  of the 
complaint remains the same. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and I make  no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62949122COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The trustees of B, a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) have complained  about Chryson Limited.  
In summary, the trustees say:
Chryson opened  contracts for difference (CFD).trading accounts for the trustees, and then 
proceeded to trade making largely  unsuccessful trades.
Chryson charged large and unfair commissions  on every trade, regardless whether  they were 
successful or not. The trustees  werent made aware of, and didnt consent  to, Chryson  
receiving and retaining the commission.  
Chryson didnt consider the trustees needs, nor the implications of transferring  their pension 
funds.
The transfer and CFD trading exposed the pension funds to significant  risk, of which  Chryson 
didnt fully make the trustees aware. It would  have  been clear  the trustees  had limited 
understanding of the risks involved in CFD trading.
The members were  low risk/cautious investors and wouldnt have gone ahead if theyd 
understood the high risks involved.   
The money traded  in the CFD account represented about 50% of the pension fund. 
background
The SSAS  was set up in February 2013 with four members   Mr C1, Mr K, Mr T and Mr C2  who 
were also trustees.  There was also a professional trustee.  Two further members  joined the scheme at 
a later date,  but neither was a party to the CFD trading  account which  is the subject of this complaint. 
I understand Mr K met with a representative of Victus Financial Solutions Limited,  an unregulated 
business, who introduced  the idea of investing in CFDs. 
Between March  2013 and May 2013, each of the original members of the SSAS applied to open a 
SSAS account  with Chryson as the appointed investment manager. 
The scheme  also applied to open an account with the business providing the trading platform. 
Chryson was recorded in the application form as the investment advisor,  and also had limited power 
of attorney which gave it direct access to the account.  
Each of the four members was allocated  an individual sub-account. On 11 June 2013, £42,000 was 
deposited in Mr C1s sub-account. A further £80,000 was deposited on 8 July 2013 in Mr Ks sub-
account. Those sums were  traded in CFDs until the residual balances of £16,611 and £31,473.95 
were transferred back to the SSAS bank account on 4 April 2014.
Bs representative complained to Chryson  in March 2017. Chryson responded  saying it acted solely 
as the discretionary fund manager  (DFM), once an account had been opened  with the trading 
platform. It wasnt involved  in selling the product.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He noted  that CFDs were 
high risk and speculative investments,  and so arent suitable for everyone. He said he would have 
expected Chryson to have discussed the suitability of CFDs with the scheme  members. Hed not seen 
evidence this happened. 
Also, Chryson  ought  to have agreed a mandate for the risk of the investments and not begun  trading 
until such an agreement was in place. 
Ref: DRN62949123Chryson disagreed. It said the members applications were assessed, and they provided sufficient risk 
disclaimers. Each member stated they had previously  traded  CFDs. Also, its documentation contains 
extensive risk warnings, including in the application forms.  
Chryson also said the professional trustee had a responsibility to ensure the investments were  
suitable. Chrysons  position remains  that it wasnt obliged  to and didnt give investment advice. It 
completed an on-boarding process, which involved  speaking to each of the members by phone  to 
ensure they understood  its terms  of business and had read an understood  its brochure. Unfortunately, 
the calls were erased after six months in line with its standard procedures.  
In addition, Chryson said Mr K benefitted personally in that he received a fee for introducing  this 
scheme, and was also paid commission for introducing other  scheme members to Chryson. It also 
believes that after receiving the residual monies back from Chryson,  Mr K on behalf of the scheme 
arranged for this to be invested with a business which traded in CFDs and foreign  exchange, for 
which he also received commission.  
Bs representative responded stating that all members had confirmed that while their signatures were 
on the application forms, the information contained in them wasnt correct. They dont recall 
completing the information. Mr T is particularly adamant  he didnt fill in the form, and has noted  this 
shows an incorrect place of birth. Chryson should have been aware  none of the members had any 
experience of trading  in shares  or CFDs.  Also, the members dont recall seeing  any documents  other 
than the application  forms, or having the risks explained clearly in a way they could understand.   
Mr K also provided a statement. While  he accepts  it is his signature on the application  for the trading  
platform, he cant recall the contents of the form. He was asked to sign a lot of documents  at the time, 
and its possible he may have signed the form without fully considering the information  noted  in it. He 
had no experience of investments at all prior to becoming a member of the pension scheme. Hed 
certainly not traded in CFDs or shares. He can also confirm he didnt see the other documents 
Chryson has referred to, such  as the terms of business. 
Mr K said he had an introducers agreement with Victus at the time of the investment. It was Victus  
who introduced the members of the scheme to the SSAS  as well as the investments. He confirmed he 
had received some  commission from Chryson for introducing the SSAS.  As far as he was concerned, 
Victus and Chryson were  providing him and the other members with advice.  He also confirmed he 
received further commission from Victus for the subsequent investment Chryson has referred to. But 
he again didnt provide any advice about this. 
The adjudicator didnt change his opinion, and so the matter has now been passed to me for 
consideration. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
It doesnt  seem to be in dispute that Victus introduced the concept  of investing using CFDs to the 
scheme members. Bs representative has said that Victus acted as a financial adviser, despite not 
being regulated. Ive not seen  evidence to support this. Further, while Chrysons initial contact 
regarding the scheme was with Victus, later correspondence was with the professional trustee. 
There was an exchange  in emails between Chryson  and the professional trustee  in March 2013 in 
which the way Chryson operated was discussed. This included a brochure  which Chryson said 
described what CFDs  are. Chryson also explained the types of CFD it deals in. 
The professional trustee responded to say from his perspective his main  concern as a trustee  was 
that he had no liability beyond whatever the client had decided to invest  in, and that the investment 
was an allowable  investment  for pension schemes, which CFDs clearly were. The professional trustee 
Ref: DRN62949124also noted that Chryson appeared to have gone a long way to try and resolve  some of the problems 
that had plagued the CFD industry for some time. If Chryson could make  good returns  the 
professional trustee  was always pleased to see clients portfolios performing well.  
Ive considered the information Chryson  provided to the professional trustee. While  this gave a 
positive picture of the trading  strategy Chryson  used, I dont think it misrepresented  the risks involved 
in trading in CFDs. 
Following the above exchange, the individual members completed two applications forms. One was to 
open an account with Chryson and the other was to open an account  with the provider of the trading 
platform. All the applications, apart from those for Mr K, were also signed  by the professional trustee.
The applications contained questions about the members investment history and experience. All four 
members confirmed  they had continuously  traded in financial products  for one to five years.  Mr K 
confirmed hed made  six to twenty CFD trades in the last twelve months. Mr C1 confirmed hed made  
up to five CFD trades in the past twelve months. He also confirmed hed made  between  six and 
twenty trades in shares, electronic  traded funds (EFTs)  or exchange-traded commodities  (ETCs) in 
the past twelve months. Mr T confirmed hed made between six and twenty trades in CFDs,  as well as 
FX spot, options  and futures, and shares, EFTs  or ETCs. Mr C2 confirmed hed made  up to five 
trades in CFDs and shares, EFTs or ETCs in the past twelve months. 
Chrysons application  forms also contained  a number of prominent risk warnings. For instance, it 
stated:
Any investment in CFDs carries a high risk of loss compared to many traditional instruments such  as 
equities and bonds. Our services will not be suitable for many members of the public. You should not 
apply for this account unless you are confident that you know and understand the features  and risks 
of a discretionary CFD management account and are satisfied that this service  is suitable for you in 
light of your circumstances. Our service involves  a high level of gearing or leverage.  The money  
that we manage for you will be used as deposit on margined transactions and this can work for or 
against you. A small price  movement  can result in either substantial losses  or gains.
In bold type and capital letters, it said:
Please note:  it is possible that you may lose more  money than you have placed  on deposit with us.
Under the heading Risk factor, a highlighted  section of the application said:
In line with speculative dealing  on highly geared instruments, profits are not guaranteed and it is 
possible to make  substantial losses in the capital invested. The Chryson programme  is suited for 
clients who have a wider  portfolio and should only represent a small part of an overall investment 
strategy. Before  you invest, please  make  sure that you fully understand the risks involved.
The application also noted that before signing the form it was essential for the applicant to have read 
and fully understood the Chryson terms of business. Both the member  and professional trustee  have 
signed the application just below this statement. 
The terms  of business document also contained a number of warnings  that dealing in CFDs was high 
risk, as well as details about the use of gearing. 
On the whole,  I think each member was given sufficient information  about the risks involved before  
they decided to go ahead  and open an account.  I think it should have  been apparent that dealing in 
CFDs involved considerable  risk of loss. 
The members have  told us, through the representative, that the information contained in the 
application forms isnt correct, and they dont remember  completing them. But Im not convinced the 
members would have simply signed the forms without checking what  they contained and what  they 
Ref: DRN62949125were for. Further,  in respect of Mr C1, Mr C2 and Mr T, the professional trustee  counter-signed the 
forms after they had been signed by the members. I think its unlikely the professional trustee  would 
have done this without first checking that everything was in order. 
From the evidence  Ive seen, it appears that the professional trustee took responsibility for arranging 
the completion of the forms and passing them  to Chryson  for processing. 
I note Mr Ks forms were completed a little later, in May 2013,  and werent countersigned. But Im 
aware that Mr K worked in the insurance  industry.  While  I understand he wasnt  involved in 
investments, he has told us he had experience of selling insurance products. So I think he would have 
appreciated the importance  of fully completing  the application forms before signing them, as well as 
understanding the nature  of a contract before entering into it.   
In the circumstances,  I dont think Chryson  would have had any reason to doubt  accuracy of the 
information contained in the application forms, which indicated that all the members had some 
knowledge and experience of sophisticated and high risk investment products. Further, that the 
members, and the professional trustee, had read and understood the risk warnings  it had made 
available, and were  prepared to accept the risks involved. As such, I think it was reasonable for 
Chryson to believe that the members were suitable customers for dealing in CFDs.  
Chryson has said that, as part of its client on-boarding process, it phoned each member to confirm 
they had read and understood  the terms of business and Chrysons brochure, and asked  whether 
they had any questions. But it says it hasnt retained the recordings of these  calls. The members say 
they dont recall  speaking to Chryson. 
I note that Chrysons application forms do state its policy is to interview  all clients in order to confirm 
suitability and understanding of risk. This would  either  be in person or by telephone. Its not clear why 
Chryson might  have departed from what seems  to be its normal practice  as far as these  applications 
were concerned. But I accept it may have not made the calls. Im unable to make a finding  on this. 
But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Chryson  had sufficient reason to conclude from the 
applications it received that trading in CFDs was suitable for the members  of the scheme. 
The representative has complained that the money traded in CFDs was around 50% of Bs pension 
fund. But Chryson wasnt acting as financial  adviser  to the SSAS. So it had no obligation to advise the 
scheme about how much  should  be invested in this way. Chrysons duty was limited to acting as 
discretionary manager of the funds  the members decided  to deposit  for trading. The trustees would  
have had to seek independent financial  advice  about what investments  should be made by the 
scheme, and in what proportions. 
Ive also examined  the bank account  for the scheme. I note that as well as the money  paid to 
Chryson, there was also a payment of nearly £36,000 for an unregulated investment in a hotel 
development in Turkey. I think this would be viewed  as a high risk investment. A further £60,000 
seems to have been invested in an off-shore investment vehicle. The evidence would seem  to 
indicate that the trustees were prepared  to take a considerable degree of risk with the pension fund. 
Further, Mr K has confirmed  that the funds received back after terminating the agreement with 
Chryson were then invested  in a business dealing in similar high risk products, including  CFDs.  
For the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont think Chryson were wrong to accept  the members  and 
trustees of B as clients for its discretionary management service. But even if I were  to accept  that 
Chryson shouldnt have accepted the members  applications  or started  trading  on their behalf, I dont 
think this is sufficient reason to uphold the complaint. It seems the members took an adventurous 
approach to investing, and were also keen to invest in CFDs for at least  part of their pension  fund. 
This is clearly what happened after they left Chryson in 2014. This investment was made  despite 
having made  a loss on the monies that had been placed with Chryson.  So I think its likely that if 
Ref: DRN62949126Chryson had rejected their applications the members would have made  arrangements  to engage  in 
this type of activity  through another business.  
Bs representative has referred to the commissions which  Chryson  received.  It says this was paid 
regardless whether the trade was successful or not. The representative  also says Chryson engaged 
in excessive trading. 
The commission shown  on the statements is that taken  by the trading platform  provider, although I 
note Chryson  had an arrangement  whereby it would be paid part of the commission.  But this 
arrangement, and the percentage  of commission  that would be charged,  was disclosed by Chryson.  
For instance, the information  is included  in its terms of business,  the application form and a document  
called its Evaluation  Strategy. 
Ive also not seen  evidence Chryson  undertook  excessive  trading activity on the account.  Its in the 
nature of such investments  that trading can take place  reasonably frequently. I appreciate its 
unfortunate that the pension scheme  lost a significant amount, but I dont think  this is sufficient 
reason, in itself,  to uphold the complaint.  
my provisional  decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6294912