K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  gave poor service under a home  
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr S owned  a flat that he let to tenant. Mr S had a policy that covered electrical repairs.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
British Gas engineers  declined  to replace a power  switch for a cooker. So Mr S paid an 
electrician £120.00  to replace it. Mr S complained to British Gas.  In its final response  letter,  
British Gas offered  to pay Mr S £200.00  for delays and other shortcomings it had identified in 
its service.
Mr S brought his complaint to us  saying  that British Gas should also reimburse the 
£120.00. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that there 
was no reason why British  Gas didnt do the repair.  He recommended  that British  Gas 
should reimburse Mr S the £120.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to British  Gas on 4 February 2019. I summarise  my findings:
By wrongly  declining  to make access and replace the power switch - British  Gas 
caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. I was minded to find £100.00 fair and 
reasonable compensation for that.
Id seen the electricians  invoice  dated 8 March 2018 for £120.00. And Mr S wouldnt  
have had to pay it if British Gas hadnt  wrongly  declined to make access and replace 
the switch. But he wouldve  had to pay the excess of £50.00.
So I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse  Mr S 
the difference of £70.00.  
As hes been out of pocket since March 2018 I also intended to direct British Gas to 
pay interest at our usual  rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to order  British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr S:
1.£100.00 for distress  and inconvenience;  and
2.£70.00 for the electricians invoice; and
Ref: DRN694216923.simple interest on £70.00 at a yearly rate of 8% from March  2018 to the date British 
Gas reimburses it. If British Gas considers that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much  its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Mr S agrees  with the provisional decision,  save that he says there  is no £50.00 excess  on 
this policy.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision within the extended deadline of 19 
February 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy  covered his electrical system. 
British Gas sent us a renewal letter that said this cover  was subject to an excess of £50.00  
for each  competed repair. But that renewal  letter was for another of Mr Ss policies relating 
to a different  property.  So I dont think theres  any evidence that there was a £50.00 excess  
on claims on the policy Im dealing with.
Ive seen the British Gas terms  dated February  2017. They  include  the following:
Getting access and making good
Our insurance products and our non insurance  service and repair  warranty  
products cover up to £1,000 including VAT for getting access and making  good .
The British  Gas terms also include the following definition:
Definitions
access and making good
- getting  to your boiler, appliance  or system, to fix or service it and then repairing any
damage we may cause  in getting  access to your boiler, appliance or system by 
replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling  in 
holes we have  made  and leaving a level surface   but we wont replace or restore  the 
original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, decoration,  grass  or 
plants.
There were exclusions including the following:
Pre-existing faults
Our products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
prevent access because a part of your system  has been  permanently built over.
 
Mr S needed  a replacement for a switch that was on a tiled wall. One of the British Gas 
engineers said the switch  was tiled around. The other said it was tiled in. Mr S says it was 
surrounded by grout.
Ref: DRN69421693In any event I dont  think  the tiling was a fault  and I dont think it was permanently built 
over the switch or preventing access to the switch.
I think the policy terms obliged British Gas to make  access to the switch,  to replace it and to 
repair any damage. The extent of the repair should have been to leave a level surface but 
not to restore any damaged tiles.
The British  Gas engineers visited on 1 and 6 March 2018. British  Gas has pointed  out that 
this was during  a period  of poor weather and high demand.  
In its final response letter  it said it was paying Mr S £200.00 compensation for some poor 
service on the telephone.  Mr S has accepted that.
But the final response rejected his complaint that the engineers had declined to make  
access to the switch  so Mr S had to pay an electrician £120.00  to make access  and 
replace the switch. As British  Gas had rejected that complaint  and not said the £200.00 
was in full and final settlement of it  I think that complaint remains  live.
British Gas hasnt  explained  to us why it thinks its policy didnt  cover  making  access. And in 
the absence of such explanation I think British Gas has misunderstood and misapplied its 
own policy terms quoted  above. I think it shouldve made access and replaced the switch 
and made  good  - but it didnt.
After two wasted appointments Mr S had to find an electrician  and make  an appointment 
with him. That all took time and trouble. And in the meantime Mr S had to deal with a tenant 
with no electricity for the cooker. So I dont doubt  that  by wrongly declining  to make  access 
and replace the switch - British Gas caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. I find £100.00 
fair and reasonable compensation for that.
Ive seen the electricians  invoice  dated 8 March 2018 for £120.00. And Mr S wouldnt  have  
had to pay it if British  Gas hadnt wrongly  declined to make  access and replace the switch. 
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to reimburse Mr S the £120.00. As hes 
been out of pocket since March 2018  I will also direct British Gas to pay interest  at our usual 
rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr S:
1.£100.00 for distress  and inconvenience;  and
2.£120.00 for the electricians invoice; and
3.simple interest on £120.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 8 March 2018  to the date 
British Gas reimburses it. If British Gas considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN69421694Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942169