K822xcomplaint
A complaint has been on behalf of E, a trust,  and is that HSBC  UK Bank Plc asked the 
trustees for duplicate information, threatened to close  the bank account and provided poor 
customer service.
background 
E is administered by trustees  who have brought a complaint. HSBC wrote  to E in November  
2017 to say it was carrying out a safeguard exercise  to help guard against financial crime 
and fraud.  And it asked  the trustees  to provide information about  E. The specific  trustee  of E 
who represents it in this complaint says that it was difficult  to contact HSBC about this and 
that it gave mixed messages about  what was required. He also says that E went through  a 
similar exercise in 2016 and was being  asked to provide information again  and documents it 
had given HSBC   when the trust was set up in 2004. He did not appreciate what he 
considered to be the threatening tone of the letters and he says that dealing  with this caused  
him stress.
Our investigator said that he had contacted HSBC and it had agreed to pay compensation to 
E for inconvenience  of £150.  He thought  that this was reasonable and said that:
-E had brought a separate complaint about  what had happened in 2016 and HSBC 
had paid £250 in compensation. An ombudsman had now decided that E had not 
referred the complaint about that to our service in time and so we could not 
investigate those  events.
-He also said that E was distinct from the trustees  and so he could only look at the 
impact on the trust and not the personal  distress  caused to the trustees.
-HSBC had the right to ask for information  to make sure it complied  with its legal and 
regulatory requirements and to ask for it to be up dated.  That would by necessity 
involve an element of inconvenience.
-He wasnt going to be requiring HSBC to provide a point by point  response  to the 
complaint and it was a matter  for our service to decide how to investigate  what 
happened. 
-Here he could see that the trustee  had had difficulty  in contacting HSBC about this 
and that E had been caused unnecessary  inconvenience. 
-HSBC had asked  for documents that E had provided in the past as it had not retained 
them and so it was not unreasonable for it to want a copy.
-He thought that the compensation was reasonable and did not think the amount 
needed either to be compared to or compounded by similar  events in 2016.
E did not agree. The trustee representing  it said that he believed  that the trustees were 
bringing the complaint and that E was not a separate legal entity.  He said that as a result he 
thought that the distress caused  by what happened should be reflected. He maintained that 
the trust cannot  be the complainant here. He did not think  that the compensation was 
sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the case of a complaint by a trust our service needs the trustees to bring the complaint.  
But that doesnt mean that the trustees  are the same as the trust however property may be 
held or given their special  role in administering the trust. We still see trustees  as third parties 
Ref: DRN67406822and we will only be looking at the impact on the trust itself  for example if there is a financial 
loss or inconvenience.  We wont be marking any personal distress  for the trustees when they 
act in that capacity.
An ombudsman colleague has already decided that we wont be looking at events that 
happened before  January 2017  and about which HSBC had already issued a final response. 
So I agree with our investigator that the level of past compensation or those events 
themselves are not something we can look into. And HSBC  says it treated the safeguard  
exercise in 2017  as a new one, not a continuation  of the past review, and was looking again  
to check and, if necessary, update the information  it held.
HSBC bears  the responsibility for demonstrating that it has complied with legal and 
regulatory requirements and setting up appropriate  processes. My understanding  is that the 
letters it sends as part of the safeguard exercise are largely template ones. While I can 
appreciate that a letter saying an account is going to be closed, as E received  here,  is 
unwelcome I cant agree it was or was intended  to be threatening. But I do take account of 
the context in which it was received. And it seems that E, from the emails shared with this 
service, was dealing  with requests from central  teams at HSBC  through a local manager. 
That manager had at times  received  assurances  from those  other parts of HSBC that E had 
provided what was required but did not seem to be able to stop the further correspondence. 
And unfortunately E was in fact required to provide more information and clarification 
including about  things the trustee believed had been  resolved in 2004.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and have concluded that although HSBC had a 
legitimate requirement  for the information  and for further document copies its communication  
and coordination of the requests was poor. And as Ive said there were some mixed  
messages through the local manager about  the letters being sent out. That was eventually  
resolved and then HSBC  apologised to E in May 2018 for the unnecessary inconvenience 
caused. 
I need to consider the compensation thats now been offered to E and whether  thats 
reasonable to reflect  this. Having done  so Im afraid  I conclude  that this is adequate to 
resolve the complaint. As I say Im not looking specifically  at any distress  for the trustees  and 
so I wont be forming a view on the extent of that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay E 
£150 as it has now offered  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6740682