K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains, via her relative  Mrs H, about the poor treatment  her late husband received 
from Santander UK Plc when he tried to withdraw savings from his account. She said this 
affected his health and she wants compensation for the trouble and expense caused.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my Provisional  Decision, a copy is attached.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I said Mr E was worried about money leaving his account and requested  a block  be put on 
his savings account. Santander  said he was told he could  have this lifted at any time and it 
was lifted to make some  transactions. Santander was also concerned about Mr Es savings 
account and put its own block on transactions. It advised its branch manager to speak to Mr 
E to ensure  he was aware of payments and to check invoices linked to proposed  payments.
Mr E requested a transfer of £55,000  but Santander applied  its block, partly due to the 
amount, and a large transfer the same day. The next day Mr E failed Santanders security on 
a call. I said he was very indistinct on the call and as he had failed security  on a previous 
occasion Santander followed its procedure in referring him to branch. I said Santander acted 
reasonably, but Mrs B said this caused  the family to incur unnecessary costs, including 
obtaining a Power  of Attorney rather than attempt  further visits to the bank.
Mrs B said her father  couldnt pay his hospital bill as he failed Santanders  security, but the 
bank could have  spoken to anyone  at the hospital to verify  him. She said Santander could 
have visited him at home or in hospital  as it offers this for patients too ill to go to the bank. 
She said this wasnt offered because Santander  didnt care about Mr E. Mrs B said the 
branch manager  said she wouldnt validate  payments for Mr E without receipts,  but refused 
to pay a receipt for coffee and cakes,  and this showed that the branch manager had lied.
Santander said in certain circumstances, home visits can be arranged when customers are 
unable to visit a branch  or access their account  in other ways, but there  was no request for 
this from Mr E, or his family. Santander  said when a customer becomes ill and has problems 
talking to the bank by phone, inevitably family members will attempt to assist, but due to data 
protection the bank is limited in the actions it can take without there  being  a Power  of 
Attorney. Santander  said its likely  it would  have suggested this on behalf of Mr E, but its not 
Santander's decision to make  and can only be taken by the customer and their family.
Mrs B said her father  called Santander to completely lift the block  he'd put on his account,  
but Santanders staff member may not have heard his request  clearly. She said Santander 
isnt disclosing all its calls to our service. She said on a call a day after the branch visit she 
was told none  of her fathers transactions at the branch would go through and she had to 
pay for a holiday herself and wait a month to be reimbursed. 
Santander said it cant find any evidence  of Mr E requesting a complete lifting  of the block  he 
put on his account, but its own security block would have remained in place in order to 
protect the account.
Mrs B said its understandable that Santander  would take steps to protect a vulnerable 
customer, but medical evidence showed her father  had full mental faculties and knew  exactly 
Ref: DRN67764162what he was doing. She said Santanders  lack of adjustment to his needs meant the family 
incurred substantial probate expenses  and other  expenses which were avoidable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also spoken to both parties.
Mrs B said she doesnt accept my view of the complaint, and said she has shown  convincing  
reasons why Santander should bear the costs that her family  incurred  quite unnecessarily.  
Having reconsidered  all of the evidence I disagree  with Mrs B and remain  of the view that 
the complaint  should not be upheld, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
I said I hadn't seen  any evidence  of Mr E telling Santander to lift the block  hed put on his 
account completely,  only that it should be lifted for specific  transactions. Mrs B said 
Santanders staff member had not heard his request and the bank hadnt disclosed its calls.  
Ive listened to call recordings between Mr E and Santander again and told Santander to re-
check for others based on Mrs Bs information, but nothing new has emerged  and theres  
nothing to indicate Mr E told the bank to completely lift the block hed put on his account. 
Notwithstanding this, Santander  put its own block on Mr Es account  having referred the 
account to its Vulnerable  Customer Team, and so even if he had lifted  his own block,  extra  
checks would be made on his transactions. I can see the frustration of Mrs B and her family 
in trying to assist with transactions  from her fathers  account without  success. But Santander  
must put in place  enhanced controls when it assesses a customer as vulnerable to fraud and 
so it had to respond  to his, and its own concerns. This meant it had to take steps to ensure 
that transactions were properly authorised, and were in Mr Es interests. 
Mrs B said Santanders branch manager  lied about processing payments  for Mr E where  
receipts were produced.  Santander did process  some payments for Mr E when the 
transactions were  authenticated  by him, however the block meant it was taking a 
transaction-by-transaction approach  to his account  and this meant  the largest transaction  he 
attempted to make  was blocked pending  his passing further security. Santander told Mr E 
that his in-branch  transaction  to pay for a holiday had been processed.   I was sorry to hear 
the obvious frustration Mr E suffered  as he tried, but failed to navigate  through  Santanders 
security checks. 
However, I remain of the view that the measures Santander took on Mr Es savings account 
were proportionate and related to his, and its concerns about his account. I think that 
Santander would be criticised if it failed to protect  a vulnerable  customer, or act upon a 
customers specific instructions requesting extra  protection.
I take Mrs Bs point about Santander speaking to hospital  staff to verify her fathers  payment, 
but this wouldnt  be part of a banks security  verification and could breach data protection, 
and so Santander shouldnt take this step.  It doesnt  appear that a home or hospital visit was 
requested by Mr E or his family.
It was understandable  that Mr Es family obtained  a Power of Attorney in order to deal with 
his affairs. This included an assessment which showed that he had full mental faculties. 
Unfortunately Mr E died before the arrangement took effect and so most  of the costs were 
lost. As I said before, there  are several reasons for obtaining a Power  of Attorney beyond 
Ref: DRN67764163making bank transfers, and so I dont think its fair to require  Santander to pay the costs of 
this.
Mr E put a block on his own account to retain a measure of control  over his funds. Santander 
also had concerns about Mr Es account. For the reasons I gave  in my Provisional Decision I 
think it was understandable that Santander  considered Mr E to be a vulnerable customer,  
and it follows that it should take measures to protect his account.  For this reason I dont think 
it would  be fair for Santander to have to pay the probate or other costs for Mr Es estate.
Mrs B said that she cant let this complaint go as the implication  from Santander is that Mr 
Es family were stealing from her father.  I realise this decision will be a disappointment to 
Mrs B and Mrs E, but it should be noted  that if Mrs E rejects this final decision it wont 
become legally binding and other options  remain open to her to pursue the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2018.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6776416