K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Marsh Finance & Commercial Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance that 
he signed in June 2018. The car was less than two years old, had been driven for about 
10,000 miles and had a price of £12,028.99. There were issues  with the cars  gearbox in 
July 2018, an engine failure  in January 2019 and further issues  all of which were repaired 
under warranty. 
He complained to Marsh  Finance in March 2019 and said that he wanted  to reject the car. It 
said that he had covered  12,705 miles in the car within six and a half months so the dealer 
would not accept a rejection request but the car had been repaired again under warranty  and 
was available  for collection.  Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr M had 
now sold the car but he had been  inconvenienced by the troubles hed had with it - including  
loss of enjoyment. She recommended that Marsh Finance should refund one monthly 
payment of £256.52  to Mr M for the time that he was without his car and any trouble and 
upset he may have been caused. 
Mr M has accepted the adjudicators recommendation but Marsh Finance hasnt responded 
to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were clearly some issues with the car which started soon  after the car was supplied  to 
Mr M. Those issues  were repaired under the cars warranty  but Mr M says that he traded 
that car in for a replacement  car and settled  the hire purchase agreement  through  the dealer. 
But hes not provided any documentary evidence to show that thats what  happened  and 
Marsh Finance hasnt  responded  to the adjudicators comment that Mr M sold the car.
The issues  with the car have  clearly  caused distress  and inconvenience to Mr M and the 
adjudicator recommend that Marsh Finance should refund one monthly payment of £256.62 
to him. Mr M has accepted that recommendation  but Marsh Finance hasnt responded to it.
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Marsh Finance to 
pay £256.62 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes been 
caused. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Marsh Finance 
& Commercial Limited to pay £256.52 to him.
Ref: DRN63390342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6339034