K821x#15complaint
Mr T says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr T took out in 1999. It was added  to his 
account when  he applied for the card by post.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was planning  to uphold this complaint. Neither Mr T 
nor American Express provided anything  further. So my final decision is in line with my 
provisional one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Im planning  to uphold Mr Ts complaint because he had more than six months sick pay 
through his work, which means he couldve met his credit card repayments for a while  
without the policy.  So I think Mr T probably wouldnt have wanted the policy  if hed properly 
understood the cost and benefits.
I dont think Mr T wouldve  bought the policy  if American  Express had given him enough 
information about it. So, I think Mr T has lost out because of what  American Express  did 
wrong.
putting things right
American Express should put Mr T in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A. American Express should  find out how much Mr T would owe on his credit  card if the 
policy hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
American Express should then refund the difference between what  Mr T owes and what 
he would  have owed.
If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, American Express  can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when American  Express works  out what Mr T would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr T paid more than enough to clear  his balance, American Express should 
also pay simple interest  on the extra Mr T paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until 
Ref: DRN65408382the point when Mr T wouldve owed American  Express something on his credit  card.  The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C. American Express should tell Mr T what its done to work  out A and B. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires American  Express to take off tax from this interest. 
American Express must give Mr T a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. American Express 
Services Europe Limited should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6540838