K821x#15complaint
Ms S instructed Pacific Financial Claims Ltd, trading as Professional  Reclaim Services 
(PRS), to make claims for mis-sold PPI on her behalf. The claims were successful and PRS 
are chasing  Ms S for their fees.
background
Ms S has complained that PRS didnt cancel some of her claims when she asked them to. 
She says PRS were  constantly harassing  her with calls, which interfered with her working 
day. Because of this she told PRS she would  deal with PPI provider L herself.  Ms S also 
says that, when she found out PRSs fees were 39% plus VAT, this reinforced her decision 
to cancel. Because of this, she doesnt feel PRSs fees are due.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.  Our investigator found 
PRS had provided a reasonable service  in respect  of the cancellation, but they hadnt 
complied with the fee cap regulation that came into force in July 2018. Because of this, PRS 
reduced their fees to the fee cap  20% plus VAT.  
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator. She feels its not right for PRS to just drop their fee 
to 20% plus VAT when  she contacted  PPI provider L and negotiated my own refund. Ms S 
offered to pay PRS their fee of 20% plus VAT on a successful claim with PPI provider  C in 
settlement of all her complaints. PRS rejected this offer,  and the matter was passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its not disputed  that Ms S instructed PRS to make claims against two PPI providers, which  
were successful in September 2018.
I havent seen  any evidence that Ms S asked  PRS to cancel her claims. She told PPI 
provider L she didnt  want PRS to act for her in October 2018, and PPI provider L told PRS 
of this request.  But this request was made  after the claims had been successful. I dont think  
its fair for PRS to charge  a cancellation  fee, instead  of a success  fee, if cancellation takes 
place after claims are successful, as all of the work  has been done. PRS can charge Ms S 
their success fee for these claims.
PRS charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, PRSs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. 
Just because PRSs fee is higher than the value of the work they have  done  for Ms S doesnt 
make their fee unjustified.
Ref: DRN66673442PRS were also acting as Ms Ss representative  in her claims. Because  of this the PPI 
providers shouldnt have  dealt with her  where its clear a representative  is acting, they 
should have dealt with the representative unless they were told the representative was no 
longer acting. And this didnt happen  until October 2018.
Ms S chose to deal with PPI provider L direct, knowing  that PRS were charging for their 
services. Her choice doesnt  alter this fact, and I dont agree  PRSs fee should be reduced  or 
waived as a result. 
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator (CMR) to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came  into force on 10 
July 2018. From this date,  claims management  companies couldnt legally charge a success  
fee of more than 20% plus VAT.
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance  to all claims management companies. This 
said from  the date of this guidance you should  inform  all new or potential  clients of the 
upcoming change  to the fees you can charge. In December  2018, the CMR  told the Legal 
Ombudsman how this guidance should be applied. They confirmed that, once the guidance 
had been issued, we expected businesses to inform all new or potential clients of the 
change to the fees that could be charged.
Theres no evidence PRS advised Ms S of the upcoming fee cap when she instructed them 
on 23 May 2018. Ive also not seen any evidence that Ms S wanted her claims to be 
progressed as fast or as soon as possible. Had Ms S known of the fee cap, its likely she 
wouldve waited until after the fee cap came into force  before instructing  PRS. She would 
then only have had to pay a fee of 20% plus VAT.  Because of this I agree that PRS applying  
the fee cap to their fees is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold the complaint about the fee cap and Pacific  
Financial Claims  Ltd should reduce their fees to 20% plus VAT.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667344