K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about Barclays Bank UK Plcs refusal to give him a refund.
background
Mr W bought a home-study programme using his credit card supplied  by Barclays. Mr W 
said he relied on the marketing materials he received from the supplier when deciding to 
buy the programme.
The suppler  is a limited  company who I shall call W. The home-study programme had a 
number of elements,  some of them physical, some of them digital, and also it included 
services in the form of support and tuition.  In particular, the terms and conditions said the 
programme was made up of.
A folder  containing a detailed printed  course  to follow.
Plus, access  to a support website  with:
A temporary PDF file of the printed  course  instructions.
Bespoke screen capture  videos and supporting how to documents.
A detailed written  trading plan to follow.
Support and tuition.
Within days of receiving the details of the programme, Mr W decided it wasnt  for him. He
came to this conclusion as he thought the supplier,  via its marketing materials, had 
promised him one thing,  but delivered something else. 
Mr W asked W for his money back,  on the basis that the programme had been 
misrepresented to him and the contract  breached by it. He also said that since he had tried 
to cancel the contract within  14 days of the home-study programme,  he should get his 
money back for this reason too.
W rejected Mr Ws request. Dissatisfied with this, Mr W complained to Barclays  asking it
instead, for a refund.  He relied on his rights  under  Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (Section 75).
Barclays looked at Mr Ws complaint. It agreed  it had taken  too long to deal with his
complaint. It thought  this probably  inconvenienced him and paid him £25 for this. But when
it came  to the substance of the complaint; its position was it couldnt help him. It said this
because, from its perspective, there  had been no misrepresentation and no breach of
contract. Therefore, it didnt agree under Section 75 that it had to do anything  further.
Mr W was unhappy with this response  too, so he came to our service.
I looked into Mr Ws complaint in my provisional  decision. I recommended  upholding it. 
I said that where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some  of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN69541362I explained that when looking at Mr Ws complaint I had to take relevant law into account. I 
said that Section  75 was relevant law, so I had taken it into account.
Next, I set out how Section 75 operates. In particular, under Section 75, if Mr W has a claim 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  the supplier he can also bring that claim 
against Barclays provided certain  conditions are met.
That said,  in considering a complaint about a financial services  provider,  I pointed  out that 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, 
in deciding what is a fair way to resolve  Mr Ws complaint, I had thought  about what  Section 
75 says.
I was satisfied that W had made a number of representations about the study programme. In 
particular, it had promised  the following:
The home study programme is easy and simple  to learn. 
In order to use the programme a new user did not need any sort of prior training or 
expertise in trading to master the programme with ease.  
The programme can be learnt and applied in one or two hours.
Moreover, it is so simple, straightforward, and failsafe  that a new user could  follow 
the programme  in her spare time and still have thousands of pounds  pouring in.
But instead  what Mr W received was a jargon heavy 119-page manual. That he had to read 
in conjunction  with training videos before he could even get started. I thought  this was far 
from the user-friendly easy to master training programme he had been promised.
I was also satisfied that Mr W had relied  on these  representations to his detriment. I was 
persuaded but for these  representations he would not have entered  into the contract.
Further, I was satisfied  that the representations  had been so specific that in the 
circumstances they formed part of the contract.  I was persuaded that these terms of the 
contract had been  breached.
For all of these reasons, I found  it was fair and reasonable that Barclays  should  refund 
Mr W. Specifically,  I said it must refund the cost of the course with interest.
I thought that because  Id upheld the complaint based on the first two complaint points the 
other complaint point  about cancellation  fell away. I said this because  Mr W was getting the 
redress he wanted in any event. I said therefore, Id not looked at this part of his complaint 
and made  no findings  about  it as I did not need  to do so to come to a fair and reasonable 
decision.
I invited both Mr W and Barclays to respond to my provisional decision.
In summary,  Mr W responded to say he accepted my final decision. Ive not been  told that 
we have received  any response from Barclays
my findings
I thank Mr W for his response to my provisional  decision. Ive considered again, all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69541363Neither Mr W nor Barclays have  provided any new information in response to my provisional 
decision. It follows, I have  reached the same conclusions for the same  reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should refund Mr W the money he paid
for the course which  he has told us was £2,597. It must also pay interest on the £2,597 at 
the rate of 8% simple  per year the interest  to run from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6954136