K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008 via an online application. Miss N says Barclays Bank  Plc (then  trading as EGG Card) 
(Barclays) mis-sold  her the PPI.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer to Barclays in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
I think its most likely  Barclays  made it clear that Miss N didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as the 
sale was ten years ago and applying for insurance  online isnt a particularly memorable 
experience. I say that because, based  on what we know about  these types  of sales,  Miss N 
would have been presented with a yes or no option when  completing  the sale online. She 
couldnt have  continued with the application unless she had clicked  on one of the options. 
Barclays has also given me a copy of Miss Ns credit agreement which she would have 
signed electronically online. And on it I can see theres a tick to select  the PPI. Ive also been 
given a screenshot that shows the information Miss N provided when completing the online 
purchase. And under the section for PPI, the letter Y has been  inserted to likely indicate  
Yes.     
As the credit card and policy was taken  online  Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss N 
so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss N got the 
information she needed to decide if it was something she wanted.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss N about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   a pre-existing medical 
condition as an example - so it would have been  useful  for her if something went  wrong.  It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put Miss N off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss N has said - including what shes said about having  good 
employee benefits if she was too unwell to work. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to her employee benefits and for longer. So Miss N could have used those benefits 
to pay for other essential outgoings at what could have been  a difficult  time for her. So I 
maintain that she could  have found  the PPI useful. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss N. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss N because:  
Ref: DRN65614762Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss N about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss N.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss N any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6561476