K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Marks & Spencer Financial  Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank)  
declined his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 for a refund of £5,000 
he paid for insulation materials.
background
In June 2018 Mr P was about to have  some building work done on his house.  Before  the 
work started,  the builder  told him that a third party, which I will call J, had some insulation 
material, and that if Mr P paid J then J would hold the material until it was needed.  So Mr P 
paid J £5,000 using his M&S credit card. But afterwards, the builder became insolvent and 
ceased trading,  and so the building work was never done. The insulation was never  
supplied, and J did not refund the money either.
In November, Mr P raised a section 75 claim with M&S, asking for a refund.  But M&S said 
section 75 did not apply to the payment, because Mr P had never had a contract  with J, but 
had only paid J on behalf of the builder.  This was proved by the fact that J had applied the 
money to the builders  trade account.  So the only contract to supply the insulation  material 
was between J and the builder. This meant  that the necessary legal relationship  between  
Mr P, M&S, and J did not exist, and that Mr P had no claim against  J  or against M&S  for 
breach of contract.
Mr P brought this complaint to our Service. (His wife also signed our complaint form, but she 
is not an account holder on Mr Ps credit  card account  its not a joint account  and so she 
is not an eligible  complainant under our rules.  I am therefore treating this complaint as solely 
Mr Ps complaint. That has not affected the outcome.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She agreed with M&Ss analysis.
Mr P did not accept that opinion. He said hed had a contract directly with J, independently  of 
his contract with the builder. It was a verbal  contract  to supply insulation materials.  He had 
not agreed to his money being  applied to the builders trade account, and had not been told 
this would happen  as far as he was concerned,  he had only been making a payment 
directly to J, for a purchase directly from J. If there  really had only been a contract between J 
and the builder, then the cost of the insulation  would have been added  to his monthly bill 
from the builder.  He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I regret to tell Mr P that I dont  think I can 
uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
I have considered whether M&S should have raised  a chargeback claim for Mr P. But by 
November it was too late, under Mastercards  rules. So Mr Ps only remedy (as far as M&S 
is concerned) would  be under section 75.
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to hold M&S liable  for what  a third party  did, 
except in circumstances where section 75 makes  them liable. I appreciate that it is unfair if J 
gets away with keeping £5,000 for which nothing was received in exchange.  But it would 
Ref: DRN62774142also be unfair if I ordered M&S to pay compensation to Mr P for something  that isnt M&Ss 
fault and where  section  75 does not apply.
Where it applies, section 75 gives a consumer (Mr P) the same right to bring a claim against 
the provider of credit (M&S) as he already has against the supplier  of goods or services  (J), 
if there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier. So to uphold 
Mr Ps complaint, I would have to find that there has been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation by J. A misrepresentation means a false  statement of fact by which 
caused Mr P to enter a contract with J. So I must  first be satisfied  that Mr P had a contract 
with J.
It has to be a contract with J, and not just with the builder, because in section 75 the 
supplier means the party  Mr Ps credit card payment  was made to. (That is the effect of 
section 12(c), which is referred to in section 75 and identifies which  credit  card payments 
section 75 applies to.1) Its not in dispute that the payment was made to J.
If Mr P also paid the builder with credit, then he might also be able to bring  a section 75 
claim against the relevant credit provider about  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the builder. But that is outside  the scope of this complaint, because when Mr P asked M&S 
for a refund,  he specifically asked for a refund of his £5,000 payment to J. So the only issue  
I am considering is whether M&S was right or wrong  to decline his section 75 claim about 
that payment.
I have no doubt  that Mr P believed he was entering  into a new contract with J, separate  to 
his existing contract with the builder. I accept that nobody told him otherwise at the time. But 
I also accept that J did not intend  to enter a contract  with Mr P. The evidence  for that is that 
the money was paid directly to the builders trade account with J. (J didnt even accept the 
payment to some central account  and then, subsequently, transfer  it to the builders trade 
account. The builders  name appears  next to Js name on Mr Ps credit card statement.) So 
its clear that  as far as J was concerned   J was not entering a contract with Mr P, but 
accepting a payment  from him on the builders  behalf. J had a contract  with the builder,  and 
the builder discharged its contractual  obligation  to pay J by arranging for Mr P to do it.
That seems  to me like sharp  practice by the builder. But that is not the same as a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by J. I dont think there was a contract between  Mr P and J, 
despite what Mr P believed and intended  at the time, because there can only be a contract if 
both parties intend  to enter a contract.  Js actions at the time strongly suggest that J did not 
intend to form a contract with Mr P, but only intended to supply the insulation to the builder.
That is not to say that Mr P has no legal remedy. I cant give him legal advice, but he may 
still be able to get his money  back from J in court, and he may wish to seek  independent  
legal advice about that. But Im afraid  I dont  think he can get his money back  from M&S 
under section 75. I am sorry that this decision will disappoint him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I cannot uphold  this complaint.
1 Section 75 also mentions section 12(b), but that is not relevant to credit card payments.
Ref: DRN62774143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6277414