K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains his mortgage endowment policy was mis-sold.  He says the policy was sold 
to him by an independent financial adviser (IFA),  but thinks  Phoenix Life Limited  should  be 
liable as the IFA was acting  on its behalf.
background
Mr T took out an endowment policy in 1991. It had a term of 25 years  but Mr T surrendered  it 
early in 2012 due to the expected shortfall.  He complained to Phoenix Life around  November 
2018 saying that the policy wasnt suitable for him. Mr T said that other options werent 
discussed and his attitude to risk was not properly assessed. He also said that, amongst 
other things,  the adviser told him the policy would pay off the mortgage  and there  would be a 
lump sum at the end of the term.   
Phoenix Life didnt  uphold the complaint and explained it wasnt responsible as the policy  
was sold by an independent financial adviser who was acting on Mr Ts behalf. Mr T 
disagreed and referred the matter to us. Our investigator concluded the policy  wasnt sold by 
Phoenix Life and there was insufficient evidence to conclude the seller was acting on its 
behalf. 
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators findings and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. In summary, hes said payments were made to Phoenix  Life so it should be 
responsible for the shortfall. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
I explain why.
The responsibility for the suitability of the advice falls with the seller of Mr Ts policy. The 
information Ive seen shows it wasnt sold by Phoenix Life; it was sold by a different business 
 details of which have already been  provided  to Mr T. 
Mr T has said he believes the seller  was acting on behalf of Phoenix  Life. When  a business  
is acting on behalf  of another our records about  businesses, which are taken from the 
regulators records, will show an appointed representative relationship between the parties. 
Our records show no such relationship  between the seller and Phoenix.  
Phoenix has provided records to show a separate business received  a commission  payment  
for arranging  the policy. This was standard practice  at the time. Receiving commission  isnt 
always the only indicator of whos  responsible for the sale of the policy. But this is best 
evidence I have to rely on, as no other information  has been provided from the sale so the 
evidence is very limited. 
I have considered Mr Ts testimony  as that is also evidence.  But I dont find this persuasive. 
Mr T seems to believe  Phoenix is responsible as that was who he paid premiums  to and who 
managed the endowment. But that doesnt  make Phoenix responsible for answering a 
complaint about  the advice Mr T received to take out the policy. Independent  financial 
advisers were able to place business  with many  different firms  it happens in this case to be 
Phoenix (or its predecessor Alba). And they (the independent adviser)  were  responsible  for 
Ref: DRN69671492making sure the advice  was suitable  for its customer  there was no requirement for a 
product provider to check the advice given by a third party. 
I do understand Mr T is very unhappy with the advice he received to take out the policy.  I 
have considered very carefully the limited evidence available. Having done so, I find the 
evidence provided  by Phoenix more persuasive than Mr Ts testimony. As such  I find 
Phoenix isnt responsible  for the advice given and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
In one of his emails  to the investigator, Mr T has questioned whether the shortfall  was due to 
poor investment. If Mr T has concerns  about the performance of his policy, this is something 
hell need to raise with Phoenix Life in the first instance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6967149