K820x#14complaint
Mr D, on behalf of B a limited company. complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc delayed opening 
a bank account.
background
Mr D approached HSBC  to open bank accounts for two linked companies.  This complaint 
only deals the attempted  opening  of Bs account. 
On 9 March 2019,  Mr D applied to HSBC  to open a bank account for B. On 4 April,  Mr D 
complained that the account  had still not been opened. HSBC responded to say that it had 
made a mistake and Mr D would need to apply again. It said it would prioritise the new 
application, apologised and offered £150 compensation.
On 11 April, the account was still not opened. Mr D told HSBC  to close the application. 
Mr D considers that HSBCs offer of £150 is inadequate.  He says that B has suffered  losses  
of £800 because of the delay  made up of £200 for accountancy fees and the rest to reflect 
time spent  on potential property purchases and lost opportunities.
The investigator thought that HSBCs  offer was fair. Mr D didnt agree. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that HSBC made a mistake here. The account for B wasnt opened because there 
was an administrative mistake. Where a business  has made a mistake, I look at whether  it 
has caused financial losses  that directly flow from it.
I note all of the points that Mr D has made about the costs that B incurred because of the 
delay. But its difficult for me to say that the losses he has claimed on behalf  of B flow 
directly from HSBCs mistake. I say this because  Mr D knew  that an account had not been  
opened, but he chose to pursue property  purchases  during that time. That was his decision. 
But I dont think it would  be fair for HSBC to compensate him for that. 
Even if HSBC had acted  correctly, its not unreasonable for this type of application to take a 
few weeks. So there would always likely have been some time and costs  before the account  
was active. And while I understand  Mr Ds frustration, it was his decision to abandon the 
application.
That is not to downplay the fact that HSBC has caused delay and made mistakes. But I think  
that its offer of £150  in respect of the account  being  opened for B, fairly reflects the 
inconvenience it caused in the circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay B £150.
Ref: DRN64625802Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 10 February 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6462580