K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) didnt pursue a chargeback request for
a transaction on her Aqua credit card.
background
In 2017 Miss R was abroad with relatives when their return flights were  cancelled at the last 
minute. She checked  online  and found some  suitable replacements via an agent that Ill call
G. Miss R tried to book three flights using her Aqua credit card several  times but the
transaction never completed.  She gave  up and booked the flights  direct  with an airline.
When Miss R got back to the UK she found  G had taken payment of around £1,500 for the 
flights from her Aqua  account. She contacted G to ask for a refund. G initially  said it
couldnt find the booking then it told Miss R her booking had been successful and she had
been sent email  confirmation at the time.  Miss R said she never  received  that email  and G 
offered to provide a refund - less about  £600  in cancellation fees. Miss R felt that was unfair 
so she contacted Aqua and asked it to process  a chargeback.
Aqua says it made  a chargeback request in line with information  supplied by Miss R. But, G 
was able to defend that by supplying evidence  to show the flights were  booked and 
confirmed via the email  address Miss R supplied. Aqua sent Miss R the information G had 
provided and asked if she had any evidence to rebut  what G said.
Miss R says she remembers Aqua  sending  her some information  from G in January 2018 
and she completed  a second  chargeback form and returned it. She didnt keep  a copy but 
she rang Aqua to check it had been  received on 14th of February and Aqua said it had.
Aqua says it has no record of receiving  that form. It didnt think the chargeback would
succeed if it was re-presented without more evidence so it couldnt  take the matter any
further.
Our investigator says Aqua should have challenged Gs evidence. Shes satisfied that 
Miss R received an email  from G at 1:35am on the day she tried to book the flights to say the
booking had not been processed. She thinks it was reasonable for Miss R to rely on that.
She notes  the email  G supplied to show the flights were  booked isnt dated  and copy  emails
G sent to Miss R and to Aqua  arent  exactly the same. She considers  the chargeback is
likely to have succeeded if Aqua  had pursued  it further. She recommends the complaint
should be upheld  and Aqua should  
credit Miss Rs account the full amount  of the disputed transaction;
refund any interest and charges applied to Miss R's account  associated with this 
payment; 
remove any negative  information that may have  been reported on Miss Rs credit file 
as a result of this transaction;  and 
pay Miss R £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Aqua doesnt think this is fair as it made the decision  not to pursue the chargeback
based on the evidence it had at the time. It sent Miss R the information  received from G
and she didnt provide evidence to rebut  what G said - within  the scheme time limits. So
Aqua had no reasonable grounds  to re-present the chargeback  and it shouldnt  have to
provide a refund. Aqua says it is still open to Miss R to claim a refund under section 75 of
Ref: DRN69276642the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 17th February  2019 and an extract setting out my 
provisional findings appears below.  
the chargeback  process
Chargeback is a process that allows a customer to ask for a transaction to be reversed if
theres an issue with the goods or services  theyve paid for. And I should  make it clear
that my role here is not to decide on the merits of the dispute  between Miss R and the G.
Im looking  instead  at whether Aqua followed the rules of the relevant chargeback
scheme - which is MasterCard in this case.
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback.  We generally think a financial business
should attempt  one if theres a reasonable chance  of success.  But, its for the financial
business to decide whether a chargeback is likely to succeed  - albeit  wed expect it to
make that assessment  on a reasonable basis. For me to uphold this complaint, Id have
to be satisfied that Aqua did something  wrong in the way it dealt with this chargeback
under the relevant scheme  rules.
what did Aqua do?
I have considered what happened  carefully. Im satisfied Aqua asked Ms R for
information about the dispute in the way wed expect when she got in touch to say she
wanted a refund. I think Aqua must have thought there was a reasonable chance  a
chargeback would succeed based on the information Miss R provided  because it raised
a chargeback in December  2017.
To begin the chargeback  process Aqua had to provide a reason code under the scheme
rules. Aqua used reason 4855 here.  This relates to cardholder disputes about  goods not
received and I think that sounds right in these circumstances.
Aqua sent information Miss R had provided and G responded with the following evidence:-
a screen shot of Miss Rs cart history  showing the flights requested were booked  in 
the relevant names  at 2.11am and the transaction was processed  and order  
completed at 2.18am  on the day Miss R tried to book the flights;
an undated email  containing flight details showing three tickets were booked  on the 
flight Miss R wanted,  in the names  of Miss R and her two travelling companions;
a screenshot  of Gs sent email box showing an email was sent to the email address
Ms R provided at 2.21am on the same date;
screenshots showing the online  booking  process  Miss R had to follow to complete 
the booking, during  which she had to accept Gs terms  and conditions  before a 
booking could be processed;  and
a copy of Gs terms and conditions.
On the face of it, G seems to have  supplied credible evidence to show  the transaction
completed around the time Miss R says she was trying to buy the tickets.  And a confirmation
email was sent to the email address Miss R provided shortly after - in time for her to use the
flights. I think G did enough to show that the transaction was processed and the goods
Ref: DRN69276643(the tickets  here) were  provided. So, Aqua would have had to present some additional
evidence for the chargeback to be re-presented successfully.
Im satisfied Aqua sent Gs response  to Miss R in January  2018  and asked  her to comment -
this is what Id expect  it to do in this situation. Miss R says she responded - and Ive no
reason to disbelieve that - but she hasnt kept a copy of her reply.
I havent got any information about what that response  contained or when it was sent
exactly. Aqua says it didnt receive a reply from Miss R, therefore  it didnt  have enough
evidence to take the chargeback any further and it wrote to Miss R on 9 February to tell her
that.
should Aqua  have  taken the chargeback further?
On the information I have  I am not persuaded that Aqua was in a position to re-present this
chargeback with a reasonable  chance  of success.  I dont  think the fact that Gs email
confirmation is undated would have been enough - in light of other info G supplied  which
shows the email was sent.
Ive considered the email Miss R received from G at 1.35am  on the day in question,  which
says (insofar as its relevant) we were  unable to confirm your payment so your booking has
not been processed. We have not taken any money from your account.
But I note Miss R says she carried on trying to book  these  tickets until around  2am - and I
think it might  even  have been a bit later than that. Miss R says the flights  she booked  with
the airline were  processed straightaway. Ive seen an email from the airline that says that
booking was confirmed  just after 3am.
Thats quite  a long time after the 1.35am email. I cant fairly rule out the possibility that the
booking G processed  around 2.20am was the result of an attempt Miss R made after the
1.35 email was sent. And Im not persuaded that the 1.35am email alone  was sufficient to
show that G was wrong to process  this payment.
Im satisfied Aqua raised a chargeback using an appropriate reason - the goods  paid for
were not provided.  For the reasons Ive explained  above, I think G provided a credible
response to show the correct goods  were supplied  at the relevant time.  
I havent seen  anything to show that Miss R supplied Aqua with evidence to enable it to 
represent the chargeback with a reasonable chance  of success  - under the scheme rules 
and within  the relevant  time limits.  This means I cant  fairly find Aqua should  have pursued 
the chargeback  any further. So, whilst  Im sorry to disappoint Miss R, I am not currently
persuaded there are reasonable grounds for me to uphold this complaint.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
This section  makes lenders like Aqua liable jointly with a supplier like G for breach of
contract and misrepresentation, in certain  circumstances.  The considerations of a section 75
claim are different  to what we look at under the chargeback process.
Aqua hasnt yet considered Miss Rs claim  for a refund  under section 75. So, I have  not
looked at the merits  of that in this decision  - and my provisional findings shouldnt  impact on
Aquas consideration of any future claim Miss R may wish to bring under that section.
Ref: DRN69276644If Miss R raises  a claim under section 75 with Aqua, and shes  unhappy with the response,
she may be able to bring another  complaint about that to this service.
I invited both parties to think  about  my provisional  conclusions and provide any further  
information or comments by 7 March 2019.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Aqua accepted my provisional findings but Miss R didnt respond. Our investigator phoned 
and emailed Miss R to check that my provisional decision had been received  and asked her 
to get back to us by 15 March 2019. That date has now passed  and Miss R hasnt 
responded. So I see no reasonable grounds  to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6927664