K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) mishandled his Home 
Care insurance claim.
background
Mr D holds a Home  Care policy with British Gas which provides breakdown  cover  for his 
boiler. He made a claim on 8 January 2018  as there  was a system fault which resulted in his 
heating and hot water being shut off. 
British Gas sent an emergency  engineer to Mr Ds property the following  day. The engineer  
reported that the boiler was a safety risk due to the breakdown of the flue as well as the level 
of boiler emissions,  so it was recommended that the boiler  be switched off as a safety 
precaution. However,  the engineer said that the work required to investigate  the issues was 
not covered under Mr Ds policy and would be chargeable.  He also recommended  a 
particular British Gas boiler salesman as he said it would ultimately  need  replacing. 
Mr D says British Gas then sent a salesman  to his property on 11 January  2018 who 
provided some quotes for a new boiler  and explained that the waiting/fitting time for a new 
boiler would  be around  six weeks. Mr D says he then waited for the salesman to provide him 
with a written quote, but that he never received a response. So he eventually contacted an 
independent third-party engineer to inspect  the boiler and provide a second opinion.
The third-party engineer  told Mr D that the boiler was in fact repairable and did manage to 
make it operational  again on 24 January 2018, for which he charged £145.  Mr D contacted 
British Gas the following day to explain that they were incorrect as the emissions were within  
the manufacturers tolerances, so he asked  if they would now cover  the cost of the repairs.  
British Gas subsequently arranged for a second engineer to attend Mr Ds property on 
25 January 2018  to reassess the boiler  and test the emissions.
The second  engineer reported  that the level of emissions were still considered unsafe, and 
that the third-party engineers work was not satisfactory, which had left Mr D at risk. 
However, he still did not consider this advice to be correct. As a result,  British  Gas offered to 
refund £246, representing  the cost of the policy, but said they would not reimburse the cost 
of the repairs  carried  out by the third party as this would  not have been covered by the 
policy. Mr D was unhappy with this resolution  and brought  his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ds complaint. He didnt think British  Gas were incorrect  in saying 
that the boiler was at risk because the emissions  reading did appear  to be outside  the 
accepted tolerance  level set by the manufacturer. But he noted  that there were delays 
caused when  British Gas did not get back to Mr D in relation to the quote for a new boiler, 
which he thought  resulted  in him being  without heating and hot water for longer than 
necessary. He also thought there  were  other  elements  of their service which couldve been 
better, so he recommended  they pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
British Gas disagreed.  They said that the element of Mr Ds complaint about the boiler sales 
person did not fall within our jurisdiction to consider, and they didnt  think they ought to pay 
any compensation. As a result, the matter  has been  passed to me to determine. 
Ref: DRN62795142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it, 
as I consider the £100 compensation recommended by the investigator to be fair and 
reasonable. 
First, I agree  that British  Gas were entitled  to rely on the advice  of their engineers when they 
were told that the boiler emissions did not fall within the safe level of tolerance  set by the 
manufacturer. And given that the repairs carried out by the third-party engineer were not 
covered by the policy (and given that it is still seemingly categorised as unsafe according to 
British Gas standards) I do not think  they ought to cover the costs  of this repair.
However, I do think elements of their service could  have  been better. I can see, for example, 
that Mr D had to chase British Gas for a response to his queries on a few occasions and had 
to repeat his concerns about the engineers report to various different agents. He also 
complained about the way he was spoken to by the agents, saying they were  rude and 
unsympathetic toward his situation. I havent ben provided with a copy  of the calls with these 
agents. But in any event, I consider a lot of this could have been avoided  if British Gas had 
done more to explain the nature of the readings/engineers report in the first instance.
Mr D has said the first engineer that attended  his property  on 9 January  2018 did not initially  
provide him with the boiler  emission readings. It is clear that Mr D was unclear about the 
reasons why his boiler was considered unsafe, as he subsequently thought  that his reading 
of 0.0020 was within  the manufacturers tolerance levels.  So if British  Gas had explained the 
nature of the readings sooner (and properly outlined why this level of emissions was not 
considered safe) he may have  been in a better position to decide how to proceed, rather 
than pursuing British Gas in the belief that he had been given incorrect  information by the 
engineer.  
I understand British  Gas have raised  concerns about whether the delay caused  by their 
salesman is something  that falls within the jurisdiction  of this service  to consider. But 
assuming for a moment that it does not fall within our jurisdiction to consider  having  
considered the way British Gas handled  the rest of Mr Ds claim (that is regulated)  overall, 
I still consider compensation to be warranted. 
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. I appreciate that British  Gas has cancelled the 
policy and has refunded the cost to Mr D. However,  I do not consider this to be a 
compensatory payment, as it is just refunding  money that he had already paid. And given 
that I consider the actions of British  Gas to have caused moderate inconvenience  and upset,  
I consider an award of £100 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay £100 compensation to Mr D within 28 days of their receiving notice of his 
acceptance of this decision.
Ref: DRN62795143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6279514