K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Adrian Flux Insurance Services  Group  administered  his 
motorbike insurance  policy,  leading to its cancellation by the insurer.
background
Mr M used  a price comparison website to search for a policy.  He was asked if he knew  the 
bikes registration number. When he entered it, Mr M says the online document  automatically 
populated the engine  size of his bike as 49cc. Mr M knew it was a 90cc engine.  He says hed 
previously entered  it as that. But he was unable  to change the 49cc  entry. The details were  
passed on to Adrian Flux. Mr M says he completed details  on its website as well, although  
Adrian Flux says theres no option for consumers to change the details  first entered  online.
The policy documents were issued by email the same  day, with a welcome letter.  On the 
next working day Adrian  Flux contacted Mr M. One of its advisors queried the details hed 
given online about an accident. She also queried  his bike having  a 90cc  engine  when the 
online form said it was 49cc.  Mr M said hed entered 90cc. And he said as the engine wasnt  
the original one for the bike, hed said there was an engine modification.  He said there was 
no option to enter replacement  engine  online. 
The advisor said the option he should  have selected  was non-standard engine. She said 
the insurer no longer  wanted to insure the bike, so the policy  would be cancelled  and Mr M 
wouldnt get a full refund. The insurer charged for the four days  hed had on cover. Mr M 
thinks Adrian Flux should refund that sum to him. In his view it made an error,  as hed filled 
in the details online correctly, to the best of his ability. Adrian  Flux disagrees with that, 
although it waived  its administration charge as a gesture of goodwill. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She thought  it was fair for Adrian Flux 
to rely on the details  Mr M had entered online.  She said the welcome  letter sent to him 
straight after he bought the policy asked him to check  if all the policy details were correct.  
The letter said he should contact Adrian  Flux if they werent, as his policy  could be cancelled  
or voided. She didnt think Mr Ms complaint should  be upheld. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
An advisor from Adrian  Fluxs IT department  has confirmed that Mr Ms details transferred to 
it directly from the comparison website. There was no option  for Mr M to change them. 
He said when Mr M entered  his registration  details,  a 49cc engine  was automatically 
recorded (the bikes original engine size).  Mr M had to agree to a statement online to say 
that was correct. There was an option to choose a higher engine  cc  but only for a manual 
bike, and Mr Ms was automatic. The IT advisor  said the drop-down list for modifications to 
the bike would have allowed Mr M to enter non-standard engine, but instead he entered 
miscellaneous engine alteration.  
Ref: DRN62582772Ive listened to the call between Mr M and Adrian Fluxs advisor  on the next working day 
after he took out the policy. In that call, Mr M argued that hed said there was an alteration to 
the engine, as there was no option  to say it had been replaced. He thought  that was the next 
best description. The advisor said the correct description was non-standard  (as a 90cc  
engine wasnt standard in Mr Ms automatic  bike).  Mr M disagrees. He says the engine is a 
standard one made by the manufacturer, so in his view its a standard one in his bike.   
From the details Ive seen, it seems that a 90cc engine isnt standard  on the automatic 
version of Mr Ms model of bike. I think its arguable that the options he had to choose from 
to describe the modification werent as clear as they could have been. There was no 
guidance on what was meant by an alteration to the engine,  or what  non-standard engine  
meant. So in my view,  Mr M chose the description he thought  was correct. But he was well 
aware that the online details of the bikes  engine size werent  right. 
In my opinion, Mr M should  have  called Adrian Flux when he got its one-page welcome letter 
and other  documents later that same day. I think the content  of the welcome  letter was clear  
and concise. It said the details Mr M had set out were being validated. It said they formed  
the basis of the insurance contract. It said Mr M should call immediately if any of them  were  
wrong, to avoid cancellation or voidance of the policy. I think that was a reasonable request. 
The wrong engine  size was clearly shown  in the summary of details set out down one side of 
the page. It was also shown  in the other documents. Mr M hasnt said why - despite being  
aware that a crucial  piece of information  was wrong - he didnt call Adrian Flux. Had he done  
so, the policy wouldnt  have started, so he wouldnt have been  charged.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr M has shown that Adrian Flux acted 
unreasonably, so I cant uphold his complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before  4 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6258277