K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Bank of Scotland plc trading at the time as Halifax  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr G bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a further advance on his 
mortgage. Mr G said he applied for the policy  through  the post. But Halifax  records show the 
further advance  and PPI were  taken out in branch.  
The policy was part of a packaged protection plan called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). The TMPP included a critical illness policy and a life insurance policy  as well as the 
PPI policy. In this decision  Ive only considered Mr Gs complaint about the PPI policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £420.35 a month towards  Mr Gs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £23.68  a month.  
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as an electrical fitter. He has told us he was not entitled  to 
any sick pay, but he did have some  other  means  of repaying his mortgage should he be 
unable to work. He has also told us he wouldnt have received redundancy pay. Mr G has 
said he had a medical condition in childhood  but appears to have been in good  health at the 
time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005.
Mr Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Gs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Gs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr G about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr G and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN68068432The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN68068433The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN68068434-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr G know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Halifax hasnt got copies of Mr Gs actual paperwork from the time of the sale.  I dont find 
that surprising  as the sale happened  some time ago. But Halifax  has provided us with 
examples of the paperwork it says Mr G would have seen when he took out his policy. And 
these show that a customer would reasonably have understood they had a choice about  
PPI, and they would have  had to agree to take it out. I havent seen anything that persuades 
me something very different happened in Mr Gs case. 
Im also mindful that Mr G took out his mortgage  in 2003 without PPI. So I think its likely  he 
would have known  that it wasnt a requirement  to take it out with this type of lending.  
Taking everything into account  I think its more likely than not Mr G knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax has told us the policy  was sold in a meeting at a branch. From the screenshots  
provided I can see that some questions  were asked about Mr Gs circumstances. Because of 
this I think its likely advice was given.  As an advised sale places more responsibility on 
Halifax for how it sold the policy, I will look at this as if Halifax  advised Mr G to take out the 
cover.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the screenshots provided suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr G. The adviser would have had information about some  of Mr Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the further  advance application. And the screenshots  available  from 
the time show some questions were asked of Mr G to try and establish  whether he had a 
need for the policy  by asking questions about his wider circumstances such  as any health 
issues and employment  situations  but I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable. For example,  I dont think the evidence indicates they asked about any existing  
means Mr G might  have had to cover  his repayments including  his sick pay entitlement.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr G given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN68068435While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr G had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Gs ability  to continue to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr G was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the savings he says he had. This 
policy could cover his mortgage repayments  for up to 24 months and the 
consequences of being unable to repay  the mortgage was serious, I think this policy 
was suitable for him.
-Although Mr G says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr G. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Gs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr G has told us about a 
common condition he had in early childhood. There is nothing  to suggest this caused 
him any ongoing problems and in any event it doesnt appear  to be caught  by the 
policy limitations and exclusions as the policy didnt  exclude existing conditions as Mr 
G took it out at the same time as his further  advance.  
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition, the requirement that Mr G be disabled or unemployed for 30 days 
before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 24 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr Gs circumstances, including his savings  (which  he might expect to 
provide an income during the policys 30-day  qualification period)  and the 
limits to those provisions, which mean  the policy could  play an important  role 
after those provisions  were exhausted;  and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr G be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr G was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr G was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr G would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN68068436But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr G agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr G Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr G all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Gs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Gs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr G has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr G? To what extent  did Mr G suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr G. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr G suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr G would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr G, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr G has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Ref: DRN68068437Mr G would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr G says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr G had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Gs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr G knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, its not clear whether Halifax told him the exact  premium  at the point Mr G 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mr G would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and he paid for the policy  for some time, so if the costs were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr G would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr G would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Gs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G must be 
unable to do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN68068438I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr G pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr G was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr G wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  and he was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr G might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr G 
from taking out the policy,  Mr G, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr G had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any work which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although given Mr Gs 
circumstances and what I consider to have been the limited other means  he had to make his 
repayments if he wasnt working, on balance, I still think he would have been interested in 
taking out the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr G that any claim he made would be limited  to a 24-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
had limited other means to fall back on and 24 months  was a longer period than Mr Gs 
savings would have  lasted if he wasnt being paid. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr G would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr G be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr G would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr G was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr G 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN68068439That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr G would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr G 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr G compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr G thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr G, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Gs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr G and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr G in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN680684310my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6806843