K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Willis  Limited  (Willis)  gave him misleading information when he was due 
to renew his home insurance, which meant he paid more for it than he needed to. He also 
says Willis didnt respond properly to a complaint he made.
background 
Mr T used  Willis  an insurance broker  to find home insurance for him. Over the next 
couple of years (in 2017 and 2018) Willis wrote to him at renewal time, saying, in summary, 
that although it hadnt searched the market for other available  cover  it believed his current  
insurer provided good value. Mr T let Willis  renew his insurance  once on this basis  but on 
the second renewal  he did some  research and discovered he could buy the same cover  for 
about a third of the price hed been  paying.
Mr T complained to Willis about  this, saying hed ben induced by Willis  recommendations 
to simply accept what it said  and he thought he should be compensated for the extra  
money hed spent as a result.
Mr T wasnt happy with Willis response  to his complaint, so asked us to look at it. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Willis had done  much wrong  when sending  out the renewal letters,  
so he didnt think the main  part of the complaint should be upheld. Willis offered to pay £150 
compensation for not responding to Mr Ts complaint, which  our investigator thought  was 
fair.
Mr T remains unhappy about this, so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
Mr T says that, based on the wording of the letters he got inviting him to renew his policy, he 
relied on Willis to look after his best interests and believed they were  providing  competitive 
quotes.
Mr T says he sought an alternative  quote  in April 2018 by chance  and finding  out that he 
could have bought cheaper  cover now says Willis deliberately misled him into renewing his 
insurance at a much higher price  than necessary.
The requirements for an insurance  intermediary recommending a policy  renewal are much  
the same  as for an initial  sale of insurance. In summary, Willis is obliged to provide 
information that is clear, fair and not misleading,  so Mr T could make an informed choice 
about what to do next. Mr T says the information was misleading, so Ive looked carefully at 
what Willis sent him.
Willis is an insurance broker. In recommending a product to Mr T, theres no set list of things 
it must  do, such as search the market for (in this case) cheaper cover.  But it does need to 
make it clear  to Mr T what it has done   so he can make his mind  up about what he wants  to 
do next in an informed way.
Ref: DRN65752342The letters Willis sent at renewal time were  sent a month or so before renewal  and I think  
that gave Mr T enough time to think about what he wanted to do, and get more  information if 
he chose to.
The 2017  letter says it hadnt carried out a remarketing exercise.  It also,  in summary, offered  
to search the market  for Mr T if he wanted  it to. It did say, as Mr T pointed out, that it thought 
there were benefits to staying with the same insurer. But it goes on to say it recognises price  
is a key factor and Mr T might get a better price elsewhere, especially if hed been with the 
same insurer  for some time. It offers to help Mr T with that if he so wishes.
The 2018  letter is similar,  with the exception that it says it hasnt approached the market on 
Mr Ts behalf.  Other than that it makes  the same  points, including  the possibility of getting 
cheaper cover elsewhere.
I think both of these letters make it clear what Willis has done   and what else it could do on 
Mr Ts behalf.  I think thats supported by the fact that Mr T contacted Willis  in 2018 to check  
if he could get a discount on the price quoted. Willis said it couldnt offer a better price so 
wouldnt renew the policy (as Mr T had instructed). It also said again  that it hadnt  searched 
the market on his behalf.
I dont think Willis did much wrong  here,  and I dont uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint.
When our investigator contacted Willis  about  not responding properly to Mr Ts complaint, it 
said it would  pay him £150  for falling short of its normal high standards. I cant  comment  on 
this. This service cant look at all complaints  only the ones that are regulated  activities  as 
defined by the Financial Conduct  Authority. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, and 
for clarity Im making no finding  on this part of Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6575234