K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1994. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So, in my decision, Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller. Miss C says FICL mis-
sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Miss C signed. It appears FICL 
made her aware that she had a choice about  adding PPI and that she chose to take 
it by ticking the relevant  box on the form. I can understand if she doesnt  remember 
that now, after all this time.
I dont consider that FICL personally recommended the PPI to Miss C. So it didnt  
have to check if the PPI was right for her. But FICL should have given her the 
information she needed to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And I can see why as, despite her enhanced sick pay entitlement, 
the PPI benefits  were  considerable  and would have  paid out for a significant time. It 
covered her for unemployment  too. The policy would also have allowed  her to retain 
the savings and shares she had or put them towards covering her other living  costs  
if she wasnt working. I also think  its likely Miss C realised there  was a cost for the 
cover.
Based  on what Ive seen of Miss Cs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  
 so it would  have been useful  to her if something went wrong. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Miss Cs lost out because of how FICL sold 
her the PPI.
Ref: DRN62482342My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6248234