K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains about a NewDay Ltd credit card which she says was mis-sold to her.
background
In August  2018  Miss D went to a third party store where she was sold a NewDay credit  card.  
She makes two complaints about  this card. Firstly,  she says it was mis-sold because the 
salesperson told her it was a loyalty card,  and Miss D didnt realise she was being  sold a 
credit card or any other kind of credit. Secondly, she says she was promised a credit limit of 
£1,200, but when the card arrived it only had a credit limit of £500.
Miss D complained to the store, which apologised and asked NewDay  to close the account  
under her right to withdraw. Miss D was not satisfied with that response,  and so she brought 
this complaint to our Service.  Our adjudicator referred the complaint to NewDay,  which  
closed the account, removed the relevant searches from Miss Ds credit  file, and offered her 
£20 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss D did not accept that offer,  saying that it did not reflect the 
amount of time she had spent on the phone.  She asked the adjudicator to investigate.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the credit  agreement Miss D had 
signed had been quite  clear that it was a credit agreement. He also pointed out that as 
Miss D had been expecting to receive  a credit  limit of £1,200, then she must  have  realised 
she was applying for credit. So he didnt think the card had been  mis-sold. He said NewDay 
had been entitled to set a lower credit  limit. There had been  no financial loss to Miss D as 
she had not incurred any interest  while  she had the card.  He didnt think  that NewDay  should 
have to do anything  more.
Miss D said she hadnt read the credit agreement and it hadnt been  clearly explained to her. 
In particular, she had not been  told that the credit limit might be lower than £1,200.  She said 
that as a result of the credit  search being recorded  on her credit  file, her application for 
another credit card elsewhere  (with a better interest  rate) had been declined. She asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it.
I do not accept that Miss D did not understand that she was applying  for credit. Part of this 
very complaint is that she was expecting to receive  a certain  credit  limit and she didnt get it. 
So the two elements of this complaint completely contradict each other.  That fatally 
undermines her complaint  that she didnt know she was getting  a credit card.
The credit agreement makes it clear that the credit  limit can change from time to time, and 
that the original  limit will be notified  to the customer when they receive the card. (The figure 
of £1,200 is only used for illustrative  purposes, to explain how much the customer would 
have to repay.) Miss D didnt read the agreement, but she could have asked  to read it. 
Whether she read it or not, it would  have been irresponsible  of NewDay to offer her any 
particular credit limit without first checking that she could afford to repay it. Lenders are 
required by regulations to carry out affordability  checks. So the credit  limit could  never have 
been finally set until after NewDay had done that, which it did when it searched her credit 
file. I therefore find that NewDay  was entitled to set a credit limit of £500.
Ref: DRN66269502It follows from what I have said above  that it is not NewDays  fault if Miss D missed  out on 
getting another credit card from someone  else, or if her credit file has been affected by what  
happened (she says that although the search has been removed, her credit score  has still 
not fully recovered). NewDays  offer of £20 is more than I would have told it to do. I will leave 
it to Miss D to decide whether she now wants to accept it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6626950