K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that Society  of Lloyds has voided  (cancelled)  her landlords buildings 
insurance policy and declined to meet her claim for fire damage on the grounds that she has 
no insurable interest in the damaged property. 
background 
In 2006 Miss A and her sister bought an investment property to let out to tenants as an HMO 
(house of multiple occupancy).  In February  2012 Miss A took out landlord  insurance cover 
for the property which was underwritten by Lloyds.
In August  2012  the property was transferred  to a limited company (F) of which  Miss A was a 
director and shareholder  (along with some other family members). The policy  remained in 
Miss As name throughout 2012 and at each subsequent renewal.
On 17 July 2016 there was a fire at the tenanted property. Miss A made a claim under her 
policy. In order for Lloyds to consider liability it conducted several enquiries and 
investigations into the claim circumstances. This service has already considered certain  
aspects of the investigations under a separate complaint reference so Im unable  to consider 
them again  here. 
In December 2017 the loss adjuster provided an interim report  to Lloyds in which  it raised 
concerns about  the property being in the name of F whilst the policy was in Miss As name. 
The loss adjuster asked Lloyds whether it wanted to consider  voiding the policy,  as it felt 
Miss A had no insurable interest it. 
Lloyds referred the matter to solicitors to advise  about the insurable interest issue. Solicitors  
advised that F was a separate legal entity  to the individuals who are its directors or 
shareholders. So, they said Miss A had no insurable interest in the property. In September 
2018, Lloyds  solicitors wrote to Miss A to tell her the policy was being voided and her claim 
wouldnt be considered.  They  said Miss A shouldve notified Lloyds that the property had 
been transferred  at the next renewal after the transfer of ownership  at the latest  (that 
renewal being  in February 2013)  so they said Miss As premiums would be refunded  from 
that point onwards. 
Miss A complained to Lloyds but it didnt change its mind. Miss A instructed a loss assessor 
to assist her  Mr C. He said to Lloyds  that he strongly disagreed with its decision to void 
the policy. He said Miss A and her family took guidance from their accountant to set up a 
limited company to transfer the property  and several others.  He says she didnt understand 
that as director of the company she didnt  own the property and because  of this she 
continued to insure  the property herself. He also said there  was no advantage to Miss A 
(rather than F) being the policyholder and that shed now placed  the policy in the name of F.
Unhappy with Lloyds  decision Mr C raised a complaint with this service  on behalf of Miss A. 
Our investigator looked into Miss As complaint.  She thought that Miss A didnt have an 
insurable interest in the property so Lloyds  hadnt  unfairly voided her policy.  But she also 
thought Lloyds hadnt handled the refund of Miss As premiums fairly. She noted Lloyds had 
refunded Miss As premiums back to the first renewal after the transfer (February  2013) but 
she though they should be refunded  back to the date the property was transferred to F in 
August 2012 as this was the point Miss A ceased  to have  an insurable interest in it. So, our 
investigator thought  Lloyds  should refund the premiums Miss A had paid from August 2012 
Ref: DRN67176022to February 2013  and pay interest  (at this services usual rate of 8% simple  a year)  on them 
from August 2012 onwards. 
Lloyds accepted our investigators recommendations but Mr C didnt. He said Miss A 
couldnt be considered to be a sophisticated  investor just because  she had engaged the 
services of a broker, accountant  and solicitor. He said it would be fairer to treat her as 
unsophisticated so she could be afforded the normal benefits  of a consumer. Mr C also 
cited a decision from one of my colleagues which he said was similar in fact to Miss As 
complaint, in which my colleague found in favour  of the complainant. He said Lloyds  was 
just trying to avoid liability for the claim. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  her mind so the complaint  was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision on this complain in December  2020 recommending  that it was 
upheld in part. I made the following provisional findings. 
It is a well-established principle of English  law that an insured must have an insurable  
interest in the property  in question in order for a contract of insurance to be valid. To have an 
insurable interest the insured must:
Be in a position where they will suffer a financial  loss as the result  of the propertys 
damage or destruction, and
Have a legal interest in the property
It is also a well-established principle of English law that where a limited company owns a 
property, the shareholders  and directors of that company do not have an insurable interest in 
that property. This is on the basis that they dont have a legal or equitable interest in the 
property itself. And where the policyholder has no insurable interest in the insured property 
the contract  of insurance will be void and the premium repayable.
When Miss A transferred ownership of the property to F Lloyds shouldve been  notified 
about the change.  I understand the property  was transferred on the advice of an accountant  
for tax efficiency purposes. And that the transfer of the property at the centre of this claim, 
along with some others, was carried out through a solicitor on behalf of Miss A. I also 
understand the services of an insurance broker were engaged to arrange the policy  renewal 
each year. The policy went through several renewals after the property was transferred to F. 
It is a pre-requisite of any insurance  policy  before any disclosures as to the contract are 
made  that the proposer must have an insurable  interest in the property they are trying  to 
insure. Unfortunately for Miss A, I dont think I can fairly say she had such  an interest. The 
damaged property is an asset  belonging to F, a limited  company. As a limited  company, F is 
a separate legal entity from those who own/direct it. As such  the property shouldve  been 
insured in Fs name. Since the point the property was transferred, Miss A hasnt had the right 
to insure it. It is F that suffers a financial loss as a result of the propertys damage and it is F 
that has a legal interest in the property.  
That the policy wasnt transferred into Fs name  is no fault of Lloyds. I note that an 
insurance broker was engaged to arrange cover. Brokers are typically regarded as acting as 
the agent of the insured  rather  than the insurer for the purposes of proposing insurance. 
Certainly, there has been no suggestion  here that the broker was acting  on Lloyds behalf. 
Its the responsibility of the policyholder and/or  their agent/broker to ensure the insurance 
cover provided is correct. Its reasonable to think  that that includes making sure the 
Ref: DRN67176023policyholder named on the policy is an entity,  or individual,  who has an insurable interest in 
that property. 
Miss As representative says we should treat her as an unsophisticated buyer of insurance 
because she didnt  appreciate that as a director of a limited company  she didnt own the 
property. And he says her use of professional  advisers doesnt make  her automatically 
business savvy  and sophisticated.  
This service does, in limited circumstances, accept that certain  buyers of commercial  
insurance should be deemed to be unsophisticated  but I dont think  that can fairly be 
applied to Miss As situation. I say that because Miss A is a director a limited company that 
owns a portfolio of properties, shes not, for example, a sole trader. And the fact is that she 
has had the benefit of advice from a number of professionals when carrying out her duties as 
a company director. Im not persuaded that she can have been entirely ignorant of the duties 
associated with being a company director. And if she was, Im not persuaded that any failure 
to make sure she knew what was required of her can be excused to the extent that I should 
then fairly  require Lloyds to retrospectively  place the policy in the name  of F.  
I appreciate that the policy has since been amended so that F is now the policyholder.  But 
that amendment  was prospective. I cant fairly make Lloyds amend the policy  retrospectively  
 which  is what would  need to happen  if the policy was to be deemed valid and for an 
insurable interest to exist  because it is not to blame for the mistake. And I cant fairly ask it 
to retrospectively  accept a risk that it never contracted for at the time and is no longer  just a 
risk but rather a known  loss. 
It is fair to say that the policy is void for mistake in that there was no meeting of minds in 
that Lloyds thought it was contracting with Miss A, an individual  consumer, when in fact the 
property was owned by a limited company. The remedy  for a contract thats void for mistake  
is to treat is as if itd never  existed  and to return the premiums. This is what  Lloyds has done 
and I cant, in the circumstances,  reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
Miss As representative has urged this service not to follow the strict legal principles that 
apply to the law associated with insurable interest. He says that would be unfair  and not in 
keeping with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA is relevant  to the issue of misrepresentation rather  than insurable interest and 
applies to individual  consumers  not commercial policyholders.  And the failure to notify 
Lloyds about  the change  of ownership of the property pre-dates the date CIDRA came into 
force in any event.  
The law is quite clear on the matter of insurable interest and, should I wish to depart  from it I 
must show theres a valid reason for doing so and explain my reasons. Unfortunately, I cant 
see any fair and reasonable reason for me depart from the relevant law that permits  me to 
fairly uphold  this complaint. 
I am also sure that Mr C is aware that here we look at each case on its own facts  and arent 
bound precedent. I note with interest the copy of a decision Mr C has sent us written  by one 
of my colleagues but I can see there  are some factual differences between  the two cases. 
Ive looked at all the available evidence  relevant  to this case in order  to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision. 
I can see that there has been some discussion between the parties  during  the course of the 
complaint about  Miss A misrepresenting the risk to Lloyds and Lloyds being able to void the 
Ref: DRN67176024policy on the basis that the risk had not been  honestly presented.  Im not going to consider  
that issue any further here  or make  any finding on it - because  I dont  have to. Thats  
because the matter of an insurable  interest  has to be placed before any contract  of 
insurance can be effected. No insurable interest means no contract of insurance. Any 
subsequent misrepresentation (true or not) is irrelevant because  no policy exists. 
I can see that Lloyds  has voided the policy from the February 2013 renewal and refunded 
the premiums from this date onwards. I think that the refund should  be backdated to the 
point Miss As insurable interest in the property ceased  namely in August 2012. Thats  
because its from this point onwards  that Miss A was unable to make a claim on the policy.  
So, I think that Lloyds  should also refund the premiums Miss A paid from August  2012 up to 
the February 2013 renewal. And I think that interest* should be paid on those premiums at 
this services usual rate of 8% simple  per year from the date Lloyds refunded the other  
premiums (which I understand  to be around  Autumn 2018) to the date it pays  my award. 
Our investigator recommended that interest  should  be paid from August 2012 onwards  but 
Im unable to agree  that would be fair. It is from Autumn 2018 that Miss A has been  without  
this money so that is the date she should  be compensated from for being out of pocket.  I 
appreciate that I recently asked our investigator  to informally  ask both Lloyds and Mr C if 
they could agree to this departure from our investigators findings  such that a provisional  
decision wouldnt be necessary. Mr C replied  to our investigator to say that he needed 10 
days to do so due to the logistics  of contacting  Miss A and her father. That being the case, I 
thought setting out my provisional  findings  may,  after all, be beneficial  to the parties.
And I made the following  provisional decision:
My provisional decision  is that I intend to uphold  this complaint in part. I require Society of 
Lloyds to refund the premiums on the policy for the period August 2012  to February 2013. It 
should also pay interest on the amount  refunded at this services usual rate of 8% simple per 
year from the date it refunded the rest of the policy premiums to the date it pays this award.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and said itd worked out what  amount it would need  
to refund to Miss A along with the dates for calculating  the interest due. But it said itd 
emailed Miss A asking  for her bank  details but had received no response.  
Miss A, through her representative Mr C, replied to say she didnt accept my provisional 
decision. Mr C made  the following points in response:
Ref: DRN67176025He agreed that directors and shareholders  dont have insurable  interests  in property 
belonging to a limited company. 
At the time of the loss, Miss A possessed no business experience  and no qualifications 
outside of her chosen profession such that she could be considered  to be in possession  
of individual sophistication.  Intelligence in another field, income level,  status  as a sole 
trader or a director dont automatically  signal that an individual  should  be considered to 
be a sophisticated  buyer of insurance. 
Miss A was so lacking  in basic understanding that she didnt appreciate that as a director 
she was simply  an employee that had no legal or insurable interest in any property 
owned by F. Thus, Miss A cannot be deemed to be individually sophisticated. This is 
further illustrated  by her failure to appreciate the need to alter the name  on the insurance 
policy year after year. 
That my suggestion  that Miss As benefitting  from the assistance  of professional 
sophisticated agents implied she, as the insured, could  be said to possess her agents 
qualities was misplaced. 
The agents  solicitor, accountant  and insurance  broker   were  all sophisticated in 
business matters  but, aside  from the broker, they didnt advise Miss A in insurance  
matters. Insofar as the broker would be expected  to have advised Miss A/F on insurance 
matters, so unsophisticated was Miss A that she didnt  provide it with the information 
necessary to amend the policy.  
It is therefore Miss As lack of business sophistication that led to the policy being in the 
wrong name. 
He had obtained the comments  of Miss As accountant and forwarded  them  to me to 
consider. The accountant said that he mainly dealt with Miss As father. He said he found 
Miss A to be an intelligent, educated  woman  with a very limited  understanding  of how 
business worked. Whilst she is a director she relied heavily  on her father in all matters. 
His experience was that few owners of small businesses  had a sophisticated knowledge  
of business. 
In summary he said that Miss A was unsophisticated but had always been honest  and 
open at inception and renewal. He said that Lloyds  fully understood and accepted  the 
nature of the risk and, had the name of the policyholder been altered to F, the claim 
wouldve been paid.  Lloyds was simply relying on a technicality to avoid liability. This 
was a genuine, honest paperwork error but for which  Lloyds would be dealing with the 
claim. 
Whilst I must have regard for the law I need  not apply it strictly if to do so would be unfair 
in the individual circumstances. This was one such circumstance. 
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points Miss As representative  Mr C made in response  to my 
provisional decision but they have  not persuaded me to change my mind. I note that Mr C 
accepts that directors  and shareholders of a company dont have  an insurable interest in any 
property the company owns. 
As I said provisionally, it is a pre-requisite  of any insurance policy   before any disclosures 
as to the contract are made  that the proposer  must  have an insurable interest in the 
Ref: DRN67176026property they are trying to insure.  As I also said provisionally, since the point the property 
was transferred to F, Miss A hasnt had the right to insure it. 
Prior to my provisional decision, it was Mr C who submitted  that this service should treat 
Miss A as an unsophisticated buyer  of insurance  because she didnt appreciate that as a 
director of a limited company that she didnt own the property. It was in response to that 
submission that I commented provisionally that in limited  circumstances,  this service accepts 
buyers of commercial insurance  should be considered unsophisticated and akin to a 
consumer.
However, where such a buyer seeks professional assistance, that assistance will usually be 
considered as compensating for the buyers  own lack of knowledge and experience.  In this 
case, Miss A sought professional advice from a solicitor, an accountant  and a broker. If 
those professionals did not fulfil their obligations, any resultant consequences cannot be 
seen as Lloyds  responsibility 
Furthermore, Lloyds has voided  the contract on the grounds there was no insurable interest 
not on the basis Miss A had misrepresented the risk. As I said provisionally, the matter  of 
insurable interest has to be placed  before any contract of insurance can be effected.  No 
insurable interest  regardless  of how sophisticated the purchaser of the policy may or may 
not be  means  no contract of insurance. 
The law is clear on the matter of insurable  interest. It is true that I must have regard to the 
law and its true that I can depart from it. But in order to do so I must give and explain my 
reasons. And for the reasons Ive given both here in my final decision and provisionally  I 
cant see any fair and reasonable reason for me to depart  from the relevant law that would 
permit me  taking all the circumstances  into account  to fairly require Lloyds to 
retrospectively amend  the policy and pay the claim. 
   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Society  of Lloyds to refund 
the premiums on Miss As policy for the period August 2012 to February 2013. It should pay 
interest on the amount refunded at this services  usual  rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date it refunded the rest of the policy premiums to the date it paid this award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2021.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If Society of Lloyds  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss A a certificate showing this if she
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6717602