K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc didnt  answer all his conveyancers questions. He 
says this meant he had to pay for indemnity insurance that otherwise his conveyancer 
wouldnt have recommended.
background
On 21 August 2018 Mr O applied for a Santander  mortgage through a mortgage broker. A 
valuation was carried out on 30 August, and a mortgage offer was issued  on 12 September.  
Due to a reduction in the purchase price  a revised offer was issued on 9 October. Mr O 
exchanged contracts  the following week and then completed on 25 October 2018.
On 28 September  Mr Os conveyancer wrote to Santander. It said a Coal Mining Search had 
shown that reserves  of coal exist in the local area which may be worked at some time in the 
future. The matter  was resolved with Santander  happy to proceed. 
The conveyancer raised  further issues on 8 October, which  were:
The title of the property  excludes the rights of mines and minerals together  ancillary 
powers of working. The conveyancer  said they assumed  due to the location of the 
property that Santander required indemnity insurance.
The title of the property  refers  to a historical conveyance dated 18 May 1896 which  
includes a restriction  that no alteration to the elevation or external appearance of the 
building is permitted  without the consent  of the original  Grantor or his heir or assign. 
The conveyancer  said that there was a ground  floor extension completed in 2006  and a 
loft conversion in 2003 and whilst  Building Regulations  certificates had been obtained, 
consent hadnt been obtained under the restrictive covenant.  The conveyancer said it 
was unlikely  that any enforcement action would be successful  given the timeframes 
involved, and asked if Santander  required indemnity  insurance.
Over the next two weeks correspondence passed between  Santander  and the conveyancer, 
until on 23 October the conveyancer said it had put indemnity insurance in place. The 
mortgage completed on 25 October and Mr O complained. He said Santander hadnt 
answered the 8 October queries so hed had to pay nearly £500 for indemnity insurance.
Santander said it was the responsibility  of the conveyancer to protect  Santanders security  
and the conveyancer made the decision to take out indemnity insurance. However it said 
one of its letters could  have been clearer and paid £80 compensation for that.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O didnt agree  and so its been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr O wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
Ref: DRN67923092relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
Mr Os conveyancer was acting both on his behalf,  and on behalf of Santander  to ensure its 
security was protected; thats normal. To assist conveyancers  theres  something called the 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML)  handbook  which has generic information about 
conveyancing in England  and Wales (as is applicable here), and then specific sections about 
each lenders individual requirements.
The two issues the conveyancer asked  Santander  about could have  been  resolved by the 
conveyancer reading the CML  handbook.
In terms of the first issue - the mines  and minerals reservation in the legal title - it seems the 
conveyancer didnt follow point 2.3 of the handbook.  That says:
2.3 If you need to report a matter to us, you must do so as soon as you become aware  of 
it so as to avoid any delay. If you do not believe that a matter  is adequately provided for 
in the Handbook, you should
identify the relevant  Handbook provision and the extent to which the issue  is not 
covered by it.
provide a concise  summary of the legal risks.
provide your recommendation on how we should protect our interest.
After reporting  a matter  you should not complete the mortgage until you have received 
our further  written instructions. We recommend that you report such  matters before 
exchange of contracts  because we may have  to withdraw or change the mortgage offer.
Instead the conveyancer simply wrote to Santander saying:
We write to advise you that the title of the property our client  proposes  to purchase 
excludes the rights of mines and minerals together ancillary power  of working.
We assume due to the location of the property that you will require indemnity insurance 
for reserved  rights to mine to be taken out on completion but please refer to your valuer 
and advise.
So the conveyancer didnt  identify  the relevant Handbook provision and the extent to which 
the issue isnt covered,  didnt provide a summary  of the legal risks and didnt provide a 
recommendation on how Santander should protect its interest.  The conveyancer also didnt 
wait until the matter had been resolved before  exchanging  contracts. Its not a matter  for the 
valuer to say whether or not indemnity insurance should be put in place, thats  the role of the 
conveyancer to give legal advice to Santander  about  the best way to protect its interest.
In any event it seems from that letter that the conveyancer  thought indemnity insurance 
would be appropriate,  despite Mr O now saying the conveyancer wouldnt have 
recommended that course of action.
The second  issue  related to a historical restriction that meant consent should have been 
obtained from the original Grantor before external  alternations were made to the property. 
This issue is answered in the CML handbook  where it says:
Ref: DRN679230935.6.1 The title to the property must be good  and marketable free of any restrictions,  
covenants, easements, charges or encumbrances which, at the time of completion,  
might reasonably be expected to materially adversely affect the value  of the property  or 
its future marketability (but excluding any matters covered by indemnity insurance) and 
which may be accepted  by us for mortgage purposes.  Our requirements in respect of 
indemnity insurance  are set out in section 9. If, based on your professional judgment, 
you are able to provide  an unqualified certificate  of title, we will not require indemnity 
insurance. You must  also take reasonable steps to ensure that, on completion, the 
property will be vested in the borrower.
5.11.1 You must enquire whether the property has been built, altered or is currently  
used in breach  of a restrictive covenant. We rely on you to check that the covenant  is 
not enforceable. If you are unable to provide an unqualified certificate of title as a result 
of the risk of enforceability  you must ensure (subject  to paragraph 5.11.2) that indemnity 
insurance is in place at completion of our mortgage (see section 9).
5.11.2 If there is evidence  of a breach and, following reasonable enquiries, you are 
satisfied that the title is good and marketable; you can provide an unqualified certificate  
of title and the breach has continued  for more than 20 years without challenge, then we 
will not insist on indemnity insurance.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Santander  did nothing  wrong  and so I dont  uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6792309