K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that The Co-operative Bank plc sent her letters  in small print and that she 
didnt get the call-backs about  her complaints  that shed been  promised.  
background
Co-op Bank  had agreed to send correspondence to Mrs A in large  print and it says that for 
some time it had been sending her correspondence  in both its standard sized font and in 
large print. She complained to it in April 2018  that shed received letters only in its standard  
sized font and that shed  been promised call-backs  about two of her complaints but hadnt 
been called. So she said that she should  receive compensation of £200.
Co-op Bank  said that it had sent the letters to Mrs A in a small font but had ordered them in 
large print as well so that she got the information she needed in a size that she could  read. It 
also said that it had listened to its calls with Mrs A and she hadnt been  promised  call-backs. 
On one complaint  shed  been told that the findings would  be sent in a final response letter 
and on the other complaint she been  told that her complaint  would be passed to its customer 
response team for a full investigation. Mrs A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  
to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said Co-op 
Banks process was to send its letters to Mrs A in both standard format  and large  print so 
she would  be receiving  the letters in both sizes.  And from looking at its internal audits, she 
said that the statements were arranged to be sent to Mrs A as per its normal  procedure so 
she couldnt see that it had made an error.  And shed listened to the relevant calls between  
Mrs A and Co-op Bank  and couldnt  agree that Mrs A was promised a call-back.
Mrs A has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that Co-op Bank  told her that the small print letters  were  sent to her in error so it 
cant be that they send both large and small print letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op Bank  says that its process has been to send  letters to Mrs A in two different sizes so 
that shes assured  that the information in the alternative format  matches  whats in the 
original format and that it did send letters  in a small font but they will also have been sent in 
large print. Its provided evidence from its internal records to show  that the letters  were  sent 
to Mrs A in both formats.  
Mrs A says that she only received some letters in small  print. I sympathise with her for any 
distress and inconvenience that that has caused her  but I consider it to be more  likely than 
that the letters were  sent to her in both formats  even if she didnt receive them  in both 
formats. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that Co-op made an error 
and only sent the letters to her in small print or that it has acted incorrectly  in connection with 
those letters.
Mrs A had phone  conversations with Co-op Bank about two complaints. She says that she 
was promised call-backs about  those  complaints but didnt receive them.  Co-op Bank says 
Ref: DRN65683252that on one complaint shed been  told that the findings would be sent in a final response 
letter and on the other complaint she been  told that her complaint would be passed  to its 
customer response team for a full investigation.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Co-op  Bank said that it would 
call Mrs A back and she was sent a final response letter on one complaint and her other 
complaint was passed to a customer response team  for further investigation   which  in both 
cases was what it had said would  happen.  So I dont consider that Co-op  Bank has acted 
incorrectly in connection with the call-backs.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  Co-op 
Bank to pay any compensation to Mrs A  or to take any other action in response  to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6568325