K821x#15complaint
Mr S is complaining that The National  Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  
(NFU) hasnt covered a claim he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. He also 
things it mis-sold him the policy.
background
Mr S operates as a chicken and egg farmer  on a farm owned by his mother.  In June 2018 he 
damaged an outbuilding,  designed as a hen house, when he was reversing the tractor  and 
dump trailer down a lane towards  the hen house.  He accidentally hit the rear end of the hen 
house causing significant damage.  
NFU arranged for a claims investigator to discuss the claim with Mr S and Mr S signed  a 
witness statement setting out what he says happened. The investigator said Mr S explained 
to him that the hen house was being used  for laying eggs. And he says Mr S told him each 
hen house contained around 3,150  hens. Mr S confirmed that no hens were injured as a 
result of the incident.
NFU said that the policy didnt cover him for loss or damage to any buildings he damaged  
which were in his custody or control.  And it thought that the damaged hen house was in his 
custody and control. It said that there  was separate  cover  for the hen house  itself. But it said 
that Mr S hadnt taken  out accidental damage for these buildings,  so it said that there wasnt  
cover for the damage incurred.
Mr S was unhappy with NFUs decision.  He said that the hen house wasnt  being  used at the 
time. And he says his mother  was the owner,  not him. He was also unhappy  with the level of 
cover he had and he thought NFU had mis-sold the policy to him. NFU reviewed the claim 
again, but it thought Mr Ss statements were inconsistent with what  he said at first. It still 
thought the claim  wasnt covered. So Mr S asked  this service to step in.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
There are two issues for me to decide  here:
1. Was it fair and reasonable for NFU to decline Mr Ss claim; and
2. Was the policy mis-sold and, if so, did this cause Mr S to lose out.
I shall deal with each  point separately.
rejection of the claim
Under Mr Ss insurance policy there was potential cover for the damage under both his 
agricultural vehicle cover section and also the contents section  which covered the 
outbuilding specifically.
However, the insurance documents sets out that Mr S didnt take out accidental  damage 
cover for the contents  including  the hen house. It only provided cover for fire and theft. The 
hen house was accidentally damaged. So Mr Ss policy  doesnt  cover the loss under this 
section.
Ref: DRN62902822However, Mr S didnt own the hen houses as they were owned  by his mother. And the policy 
does cover loss or damage that Mr S accidentally caused to another persons property. So 
as the hen houses were owned by someone  else, there was potentially cover  under this. But 
the policy also specifically  excluded cover for damage to any vehicle, trailer, disabled 
mechanically-propelled vehicle, motorcycle or property which is in the custody or control of 
anyone insured by this section. NFU says that the hen house  was in Mr Ms custody and 
control at the time. So it said the loss was excluded under the terms of the policy.
Mr S says that the hen house wasnt being  used at the time. Hes provided an invoice which  
says that hed sold around  7,000 hens in August 2017 and a statement from another  person 
confirming that the hen houses werent being  used from August 2017.  But I think  this is 
different to what he initially told NFU. I think the statements made  at the time of the claim are 
most likely to be the true version of events. And I have a number of concerns in respect to 
this:
1. In Mr Ss signed  statement  he said I use the poultry  houses  on a daily basis for the 
egg producing  side of the business. I think that this is a contradiction to his statement  
that hed sold the hens. Given he was making a claim for the damaged hen house, I 
think its unlikely  hed have  said this if he wasnt using it. 
2. I note Mr S said that he was only using two of the hen houses. But I think  a fair 
inference from the statement  that Mr S made on the signed statement  which was 
done at the time of the claim   suggests that all houses were  being used. I would have 
expected Mr S to say that he was using  two of the houses but the one that he 
damaged wasnt  being used at the time if that was the actual scenario.
3. The claims investigator says that Mr S told him he was going  to the hen house to clear  
out the pits. But he wouldnt have had to clear out the pits, if the hen houses hadnt 
been used  for around  10 months  as Mr S now says. 
4. In Mr Ss email  to the investigator he said his mother was planning on putting hens into 
the house from March 2017  until she was no longer fit and her plan was then to rent it 
out as caravan storage. But in his signed statement he explained that his mother  didnt 
get involved in the daily day to day running of the farm. He said that he ran the farm 
and his mother had no financial  interest in it. I think a fair inference  from this has to be 
that the hen house in question was in Mr Ss custody and control.
Ive taken Mr Ss comments into account.  But I cant ignore  the statement that Mr S signed at 
the time.  And I think its most  likely that the hen house was in his custody and control at the 
time he damaged  it. Given this, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable that NFU said the 
claim wasnt covered.
was the policy mis-sold  to Mr S?
The wording  of the policy documentation  suggests  that NFU recommended  the policy  to 
Mr S. So it needed  to get a full understanding of Mr Ss requirements to assess  what  policy 
was suitable for him.
I can see that Mr S had a choice of three  levels  of cover:
1.Fire and theft only;
2.Fire, theft,  storm and flood cover;
3.Fire, theft,  storm, flood and accidental damage  cover (all risks).
Ref: DRN62902823Mr S had all risks cover for his agricultural machinery   i.e. including accidental damage.  But 
he only had fire and theft cover for the rest of the insured items. I think  a fair inference from 
this is that NFU would  have discussed the various  levels of cover  available to Mr S and he 
would have chosen to only have fire and theft cover for the hen houses. 
While accidental damage was subsequently  caused  to the hen houses, it doesnt mean that 
the level of cover Mr S took out was unsuitable.  I think its most likely that Mr S concluded at 
the time that he didnt need  accidental  damage for the buildings. I think  NFU recommended 
a policy  that was suitable for the cover Mr S asked  for.
I also note that, during  a review of the level of cover  Mr S had, NFU recommended  that Mr S 
added storm and flood  cover for the buildings. But he didnt do so.
Ultimately, I havent seen enough  to say that NFU mis-sold the policy to Mr S.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. And he raised a number of points. But in 
particular he raised  the following:
1.The policy covers damage  he causes to other peoples  property.  He says the damaged  
hen house was owned by his mother,  so he says it should be covered.
2.He maintains that he wasnt using the hen house at the time he damaged  it. He says he 
was using it three months before  the incident.  He says hes provided letters and 
documentation from two companies which he says states  very clearly  when the house  
was depopulated and that there  was no more  hens put into it. And he says that they 
werent putting anymore hens into it for him to use.
3.He said he had been using all three  houses  at one time. But he said his statement wasnt  
done at the time of the claim, but around a month later.  He said it was written out by the 
insurance investigator. And he says its not his fault if it doesnt say specifically the exact 
dates and which hen house he was using.  He said he can only answer  what  he was 
asked. 
4.He says the investigator  took pictures of the site which show the house  was empty. He 
thinks that the statement made by NFU was too vague.
5.He queried where he said that he hadnt used the hen house  for 10 months. He said the 
hens were removed  in August and the event started in November which is three  months 
later.  
6.He said his email to the investigator didnt say his mother was putting  hens in the house 
from March 2017, but from March  2018. He said it would have been impossible for her to 
put hens in it in March  2017 as he was under contract with the house until August 2017. 
Mr Ss mother also provided a written statement which  also said that she intended  to start 
running the hen house. And she says the hen house  was depopulated in line with her 
instructions in August 2017. She said that she had in effect evicted Mr S from the hen house 
in August 2017, so he didnt have custody  or control of it at the time of the incident. She 
maintains that Mr S didnt have any hens in the building at the time of the incident and that it 
was no longer in his custody and control.
NFU responded to Mr Ss further  comments and raised a number of points. But in particular 
it said that, while there werent any hens, this was some time after the incident. And it said 
the hen house was inhabitable at the time of inspection to the damage  caused. It said Mr S 
advised that the hen house was used  for laying  eggs and each hen house contained 3,150 
hens. It said when questioned Mr S confirmed no hens  were injured as a result  of the 
incident but it says he didnt suggest this was because the house was empty.
Ref: DRN62902824NFU also commented that Mr S had accepted responsibility for insuring the outbuildings and 
the hen houses in their entirety  for the purposes  of his business. It said that there  werent 
any exclusions for the premises or buildings. And it said that he hadnt excluded  any of the 
hen houses.
Finally, it referred to Mr Ss signed  statement which said that Mr S had told the investigator:
7)Although I run the farm and my Mother has no financial interest  in it, she still owns the 
land and the buildings and the Deeds for the property are still in her name.
10)use the poultry buildings on a daily basis for the egg producing  side of the business
11)dont pay rent to my mother for the use of the land or buildings.
NFU maintains that none of the information  that Mr S is now referring to was mentioned  
when the investigations were being carried out and were  only raised when the claim was 
declined. And it thinks more weight should be placed on Mr Ss initial statement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken all of Mr Ss further  comments into account, but Ive still decided to not uphold  this 
complaint. And Ill now explain  why.
Mr S has said that the policy covers  accidental damage he caused  to another persons 
property. He said the hen house  was owned  by his mother. So he thinks  the claim should be 
covered. I agree  with him that the policy does cover accidental damage  to property owned 
by another person. But the policy also specifically excluded  cover where the property was in 
Mr Ss custody  and control.  It was my opinion in my provisional decision that the hen house 
he damaged was in Mr Ss custody and control at the time. And Mr Ss further comments 
havent dissuaded me from this.
The issue  in this case is quite simple  was the hen house in Mr Ss custody or control at the 
time of the incident?  Mr S has provided a lot of information which  he says shows  that he 
wasnt in control of it any longer. But I still think this is in contrast to the statements he made  
to the claims investigator at the time of the incident. 
I think statements made at the time of the incident are generally more  persuasive and 
reliable. And I cant ignore  what he said in them  in particular that he said he runs the farm 
and his mother had no financial interest in it. There is a clear  inference  from his statement 
that he was responsible for the full running of the farm and that included  the hen house he 
damaged.
Mr S has queried why I said the hen houses  had been empty for 10 months,  when they had 
been empty  for three months. I apologise for any confusion here. But even if they had only 
been empty  for three months, I still dont think he wouldnt have had to clear  out the pits, if 
the hen houses hadnt been used for around  three  months.
Ref: DRN62902825I dont dispute  that it may be that his mother intended to start using the hen house again.  But 
I havent seen  enough to show that she had started  to do so at the time of the incident.  And 
given Mr Ss statements  made to the investigator which  he signed to confirm  were true, I 
cant say that on balance, Mr S wasnt in custody or control of the hen house.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think NFUs decision to decline the claim was 
unfair or unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6290282