K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited  trading  as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr M between August 2014  
and April 2015. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought all the loans from loan 1 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny didnt respond  to the view so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
Ref: DRN65876172And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.  Having done this, Im upholding the complaint. 
I explain why. 
Sunny says it carried out checks on Mr M when he applied for the loan. This included 
gathering details about his income and existing commitments. It also said it checked his 
credit report.  Sunny  says based on this information the loan was affordable for Mr M.
However, I think if Sunny had responded effectively to the information it had gathered, it 
wouldve seen Mr M had one outstanding  short-term  loan for a large amount as well as 
numerous historic loans in the previous three  months. In the month prior to taking out loan 1, 
Mr M had paid nearly £4,000 towards  short-term  loans.  Based on this level of borrowing, its 
reasonable to say that Mr M was having  significant issues managing his finances.  And given 
Mr Ms history  of borrowing  from short-term lenders, I think it should have been  a concern to 
Sunny that Mr Ms stated disposable income  was unlikely to be enough to meet  his 
commitments without  having to borrow again.  
Overall, it seems more likely that Mr M was relying  on short-term credit  to cover ongoing 
shortfalls in his income and further lending  was not appropriate. Which means Sunny 
shouldnt have given  loan 1 or any subsequent  loans to Mr M and it should put things right.  
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  1 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 5 from Mr Ms credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited must give Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Ref: DRN65876173Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6587617