K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained National Westminster Bank Plc (the bank) didnt deal correctly with a 
request he made for a chargeback.  
background
Mr F hired  a car, offering  his NatWest bank card as the means of payment. Mr F said he 
wasnt liable for the charges the hire company later raised and which  were debited  to his 
account with the bank.  After the debit  Mr Fs account went into unauthorised overdraft.
Mr F said he wasnt liable for the charges because:
The hire company had promised him a refund
Hed paid the charges  or some of them already  via a third party
The car had been  defective
The bank  too had promised to re-credit  his account, and then didnt
The bank  ought not to have  allowed the debit, because his account didnt have 
enough money in it to cover the debit.  
Mr F was also unhappy with how the bank had dealt with him when he phoned about the 
issue.
Mr F applied  for a chargeback. The bank agreed  to a partial chargeback (around 15% of the 
charges) but not to a full one. The bank also (a) paid £25 compensation for misinforming 
Mr F the charges would be fully removed from the account before the chargeback  request 
was investigated  (b) waived charges of £72 and (c) paid Mr F around £12 for phone and 
travel costs.
Mr F wasnt happy with this outcome. He continued to press for a full chargeback.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. She concluded the bank had dealt properly 
with Mr Fs chargeback request.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. He said shed not dealt fully with all the 
points in his complaint, and he asked the ombudsman to do so. He also said he had little 
faith in the ombudsman service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I havent 
upheld his complaint. 
In terms of the points  we should be investigating,  this complaint is about a chargeback 
request and its surrounding circumstances.  This is what  the investigator rightly  dealt with in 
her conclusions. In his phone conversation with the investigator to which hes referred, Mr F 
mentioned things that had no connection  to the chargeback issue. The investigator rightly  
didnt deal with those points in her investigation  of a complaint about  a chargeback  request.  
The investigator also rightly pointed out that when we deal with a complaint  about a 
chargeback request, we dont investigate the retailer or service provider whose charges the 
Ref: DRN66985902customer is unhappy with. What were concerned with is the banks actions. The basic 
question we ask is whether  the bank dealt with the chargeback  request  properly.  
In this case, Mr F was unhappy with the charges raised by the car hire company and made  a 
chargeback request. That doesnt of course  mean the bank must agree to the request. 
Under the chargeback rules the bank has to investigate the circumstances and ask for 
information from the other party, in this case the car hire company. The bank may also ask 
for further  information  from the claimant.  Once  it has the information, the bank  then decides  
whether to agree to the chargeback. 
The bank followed those steps in the present  case. It asked for further information from both 
parties. The car hire company fully complied,  Mr F didnt.  
The car hire company defended  didnt agree with - the chargeback  and sought to justify its 
position by providing information. I dont think the bank acted unreasonably when it treated 
what the car hire company said as a plausible defence. The bank therefore refused the 
request for a full chargeback, in my view reasonably so. The bank did agree to a partial  
chargeback, taking the view, again on apparently reasonable grounds, that thered been a 
degree of overcharging. The partial  chargeback seems  to have been accepted by the car 
hire company. 
So I find the bank  dealt with Mr Fs chargeback request properly.
It isnt the case that a bank must  refuse to debit  an account if the debit creates an 
unauthorised overdraft. 
Ive listened to phone recordings of conversations between Mr F and the banks employees. 
Parts of these discussions  became very fraught and Id imagine Mr F would  accept he used 
language at times that he shouldnt have used.  On the whole I think  the banks staff 
remained courteous and tried to be helpful during the conversations.  I dont think Mr F is due 
any more compensation  than the bank has already paid him. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6698590