K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard  (Barclays) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs F has said it wasnt made clear the policy  was optional but I think  Barclays  made  it clear  
that Mrs F didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this after all this time.  I say this because  Ive been 
given a copy of the application  form completed  at the time and this includes a section about 
PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if PPI is required and I can see that the box has 
been ticked on the form. Mrs F has signed  the form which suggests she agreed with 
everything that had been entered. If Mrs F didnt  want to take out the PPI she could have left 
the box blank.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application form 
- so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said - including what  she has said about not 
needing the policy as she was entitled  to six months  full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, from her employer if she was too ill to work. But the PPI policy  would have provided 
cover for up to 12 months  - which would have  been in addition  to her sick pay. And it would 
potentially have paid out for longer than she would receive full pay. Mrs F has also told us 
she had a critical illness insurance policy at the time but this type of policy  provides a 
different type of cover and benefit  to that of PPI. So these points dont change my decision.
So, when taking  everything into account,  this means  Barclays  doesnt have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs F as I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN61271902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6127190