K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that he has been  unable to gain access  to his credit  file held by 
Experian Limited. He believes  that they hold incorrect information  about him.
background
Mr W has had several  accounts with Experian  over the last few years, the last of which is a 
fee paying account. 
Mr W has told us that he is locked out of his Experian  account. He says that Experian  told 
him that it was because  he had provided  false details when trying to log in. Mr W says that 
he believes  he couldnt log in because Experian hold incorrect  personal  information about 
him. On the advice  of Experian, Mr W created a new profile to gain access  to the account, 
but this didnt work. He says that he thinks his data protection  has been breached and that 
all of this has resulted in credit / loan applications being rejected. Mr W says that he has also 
received unwanted text messages from Experian.
Experian say that Mr W didnt pass the security  checks when  he tried to log in. They  also say 
they dont think  Mr W used false details  but may have entered his details incorrectly. 
Experian have  said they are not aware of any incorrect  information they hold about  Mr W 
and that he has not told them what information he believes is incorrect. Experian  also said 
that they told Mr W he can gain access to his credit  file by applying  for a copy  of his statutory 
credit report  - then, he could check the information  held about  him and if it is wrong,  he could 
submit a notice of correction. In respect of the new profile, Experian say Mr W tried to 
upgrade to a fee paying account but his payment  card was not authorised. Regarding  the 
text messages, Experian say that on accepting  their terms and conditions Mr W gave  
permission for them  to contact him using this method.
Mr W is unhappy with the explanations that Experian have given and so referred his 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked into what had happened, and thought that 
Experian had done nothing wrong.  The investigator  was satisfied that the personal 
information held by Experian on Mr W was correct. The investigator also thought  the account 
was not locked and that the issue here was that the payment card had not been  authorised.  
Mr W disagreed  with this and so the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
In the meantime Mr W has now gained  access to his Experian account. He says that there 
are mistakes  within the report about  his current credit status. He says that the report shows 
him having more  credit  than he really does. He also says that he is unhappy that his credit  
rating has been reduced and Experian have refused a credit  card payment from him.
Ref: DRN63209752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
access
In respect of Mr W being unable to gain access to his account  this matter has now been  
resolved, and he has access.  I can see how frustrating this must have been for him. Mr W 
feels that the access issues were due to a fault with Experian, however I dont have enough 
evidence, on balance,  to persuade me of this. While  this issue was being sorted out Mr W 
couldve got a copy of his statutory credit  report by post. So the information he wanted  
wouldve been available to him although in a different format. The process for getting this 
report was explained  by Experian  to Mr W. I think this was reasonable.
personal information
With reference to the principles relating  to credit reference agencies  and the data protection  
regulations, Experian are obligated to ensure that credit files are only used for agreed 
specific purposes and that the personal  information  they hold is accurate. This would include 
such details as name address and date of birth. On checking this information  we did find that 
Mr W had moved.  But because  he was unable to gain access to his account he couldnt  
update his account with the new address. I am satisfied that Experian are now aware of the 
new information and have duly updated their records. So Im satisfied theyve done what  
they should, as soon  as they were  able.
credit information
It is the responsibility of the lenders who supply information to Experian about  Mr Ws 
financial affairs, to ensure that the information is accurate. Now that Mr W has access to his 
credit report  he has explained that there are errors regarding the amount of credit  in his 
name and his credit score. Im satisfied this is a new issue  so Mr W would need to raise  this 
with Experian  in the first instance. If unhappy  with their response,  he may be able to raise  a 
new complaint with us.
fee paying account
Im aware that this account remains open,  however  there is a note on the file that says a 
payment card that was used to try to upgrade the account  was not authorised.  I think that it 
is more likely than not that this happened  because there was a problem with the card or the 
card issuer.  I dont think that Experian can be held responsible for that in these 
circumstances.
Since gaining  access to his account  Mr W has also said that Experian have refused to 
accept his credit card.  Again  this is a new issue. In the first instance he should raise this with 
his credit card provider and/or Experian.
Ref: DRN63209753data breach
Having looked  through the file I can see no evidence  of a data breach. Other businesses use 
credit agencies to verify certain details as part of the loan application process.  It is usual for 
a loan applicant  to sign and give permission for the loan company to do that. If permission is 
not in place the credit agencies do not release  the information. The use of credit  files in this 
manner is for the agreed specific purpose mentioned  above.
text messaging
Mr W would  have accepted this along  with other  forms  of communication when he opened  
his account. I am not aware of him having previously asked Experian to stop texting him or 
Experian having to take into account  any adjustments  for Mr W. I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Experian to occasionally text Mr W before he raised this issue. So in the 
circumstances I dont  think  Experian  have done  anything wrong. I think it would be best for 
Mr W to let Experian know how he would  like to be contacted in the future.
Unfortunately Mr W says has been refused credit / loans recently. Mr W has not provided  me 
with any evidence to support  this. It is important to note that individual  businesses  have their 
own lending  criteria,  and it is difficult to know why any lending  application has been turned  
down. For these reasons  I cant hold Experian  responsible for this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Experian  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6320975