K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) incorrectly  applied  charges to 
her business  account and provided her with poor service.
background 
Mrs S holds a business account with RBS. A charge was levied on Mrs Ss account when 
funds were debited  to allow her to pay a bill, which  she complained had been incorrectly 
applied. She was also unhappy with the service  she received from RBS. This includes,  but is 
not strictly limited to:
Spending hours on the phone and making over 20 phone calls to resolve  the matter;
Letters being incorrectly addressed as well as containing factual inaccuracies and 
spelling errors;
Not being  called  back when was told that she would;
Not receiving all the relevant data after submitting a data subject access  request and 
having to chase this on three separate occasions.
RBS acknowledged  they that their service had fallen below an acceptable standard and 
offered £50 compensation, as well as refunding the charges applied  to her account.  
However, they maintained that the charge was valid and had been  applied correctly. Mrs S 
remained unhappy and wants RBS to acknowledge that the charge was incorrectly  applied,  
and she wants them to offer her an apology. 
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Ss complaint. She discovered that the charge had in fact been 
applied incorrectly because the bank teller had pressed the wrong button during the 
transaction. She also considered that a further £50 compensation ought to be paid in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused  due to the poor service  she had 
received. 
RBS acknowledged  that the charge had been  applied incorrectly  and agreed to apologise 
and pay a further £50 compensation. However, Mrs S didnt think this was acceptable, so the 
matter had been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider the total 
compensation awarded by the investigator  to be fair.
Mrs S doesnt feel that £100 compensation in total is commensurate to the experience shes 
had with RBS,  and argues that she should receive further compensation. Ive considered 
everything Mrs S has told us, and its clear  that shes been left frustrated  and 
inconvenienced by the way shes been dealt with, and the time she has spent in resolving 
the matter.
I can see, for example, that she has had to make a significant amount  of phone calls to RBS 
and has recorded  the time spent on the phone to them, which has amounted to around a few 
hours. They also failed  to acknowledge that the charge had been  applied incorrectly, and I 
can also see that she had to chase RBS a few times because  they didnt provide all the 
necessary information  as part of her SAR. But I have to consider whether, in the 
Ref: DRN67743172circumstances, the additional  £50 compensation awarded (making  £100 in total including  the 
£50 already paid) is proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mrs S, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions 
of RBS have had a greater  impact  than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant  
say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  entirely frustrating and time consuming for Mrs S. 
But I can see that RBS have agreed to apologise to her for failing to acknowledge that the 
charge had been applied  in error to her account, and that theyve also agreed to reimburse  
her phone bills for the calls she had to make.  So I think  they have made reasonable attempts 
to make things right with Mrs S. But for the times when  their service did fall below standard, I 
consider an additional payment of £50  along  with the apology  and offer to pay for the costs 
of the calls  to be fair compensation  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I direct The Royal Bank of Scotland  
Plc to pay an additional  £50 compensation  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience 
caused. 
RBS should pay Mrs S within 28 days of receiving  her acceptance of this decision, failing 
which interest will start to accrue  at the simple  rate of 8% per year until settlement (less any 
tax properly deductible).  
Mrs S should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mrs S and RBS as to whether the £50 still remains  
open for acceptance. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774317