K821x#15Complaint
Ms K complains  that TSB Bank plc wont refund the money she lost when she was the victim 
of a scam.
Background
Ms K says she was contacted via a dating website, by someone who said they were a doctor 
working abroad. They told her they wanted  to visit the UK but their luggage had to be sent 
separately first, so they asked her to pay for the luggage to be shipped. Ms K agreed and 
made a branch transfer of £4,400  to the shipping company  account  details she had been 
given.
Two days after this first transfer, Ms K was contacted by the shipping  company again. She 
was told a large sum of money had been  found  in the luggage so she needed to pay more 
for the luggage  to be released. Ms K then went into branch again and made a second 
transfer, for £27,820.
The day after this second transfer, the luggage  didnt arrive  so Ms K became suspicious and 
ultimately discovered it was a scam.  TSB investigated but said Ms K had told it the transfers 
were to ship furniture over from her home country and it had no reason  to doubt this. And it 
said the transfers werent unusual or out of character for Ms K. So it didnt think it should  
have prevented the transfers and didnt  agree  to refund them. Ms K wasnt happy  with TSBs 
response so referred  her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. They thought  TSB shouldve  taken further  
steps to satisfy itself that Ms K wasnt at risk of financial harm. And that, if it had done,  the 
scam wouldve been uncovered before Ms K sent the second transfer. So they 
recommended TSB refund the amount of the second transfer, plus interest, and pay Ms K 
£250 compensation. TSB disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  that TSB shouldve  taken further  steps and 
that, if it had done  so, Ms Ks loss from the second  transfer wouldve been  prevented.  Ill 
explain why below.
Its not in dispute  that Ms K authorised both of the transfers. Ms K says she made them both 
in branch and TSB has said they were  authorised using Ms Ks card chip and PIN. So, while  
I recognise Ms K didnt intend  the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is 
that TSB was obliged  to follow her instructions and process the transfers. And so Ms K isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I think  TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN69502532Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive considered whether TSB should have identified that Ms K was potentially  at risk of 
fraud as a result of either of the transfers.
First transfer of £4,400
Having looked  at the evidence of previous activity on the account, I dont think  the first 
transfer of £4,400 was particularly out of character or unusual.  The statements for the 
account show Ms K had made a number of payments of a similar type,  and a number  of 
payments for similar or larger amounts, in the 12 months before this transfer.
The transfer was done in branch though, so there would have been some interaction  
between Ms K and the branch staff about  the transfer. And this wouldve given TSB the 
opportunity to assess whether Ms K was potentially at risk of financial harm as a result of it. 
So Ive considered whether TSB did enough during this interaction to check  whether Ms K 
was at risk.
TSB says the first transfer of £4,400  wouldve been authorised by chip and PIN and then,  as 
it was a large amount, it wouldve been referred  to the branch manager. And its sent us a 
statement from the branch manager saying Ms K said the transfer was to pay to have 
furniture shipped over from her home country.
Ms K says she didnt  say this, and instead  told the branch staff the transfer was to pay for 
luggage being shipped back for a doctor working abroad.  But I cant see why the branch 
manager would think the transfer was for shipping furniture unless Ms K had said so. TSB 
has sent us a form filled in for the second transfer which  says that was for shipping furniture 
for Ms Ks husband. And I also cant see why this form wouldve been wrong or why Ms K 
wouldve given different reasons for the first and second transfers, particularly when she 
says she didnt. So I think its likely Ms K told TSB the first transfer was for shipping  furniture.
Ive not seen clear  evidence  of the questions TSB asked Ms K about  this transfer. But, as 
the transfer wasnt particularly unusual, theres a limit to the questions  I think  it would be 
reasonable to expect  TSB to ask. Ms K also didnt tell TSB the real reason for the transfer 
and, on the face of it, the reason she gave was reasonable. So, even if it had asked her 
further questions, I dont  think TSB could reasonably have been  expected  to identify  that 
Ms K was at risk of financial harm. And so I dont think  it would be reasonable to ask TSB to 
refund the first transfer.
Ref: DRN69502533Second transfer of £27,820
The second  transfer was for a significantly higher amount than the first transfer. And the 
statements for Ms Ks account show the second transfer was also for a significantly higher 
amount than any other transaction  on the account in the previous twelve months. Ms K had 
made a larger  transfer than this out of the account,  but this was more  than 14 months 
previously. So I think  this second transfer  of £27,820  was out of character and unusual in 
comparison to the previous  activity on the account. And so I think TSB should have identified 
that Ms K was potentially at risk of fraud and carried out additional checks before processing  
it.
TSB has sent us a copy of a checklist that was filled in by the branch staff when this transfer  
was made.  This includes a question asking if the staff have any concerns  that the customer  
might be the victim of a scam,  and has been answered no. But it doesnt give any further 
detail on what checks the staff did to satisfy themselves of this. And TSB hasnt been  able to 
send us any further evidence of these  checks either.
I accept its not for this service to dictate  the checks TSB should do or the questions TSB 
should ask. But TSB should take steps designed to protect its customers  from the risk of 
financial harm. Particularly given the size of this transfer, I think  in these circumstances it 
would be reasonable to expect these checks to include questions  about the purpose of the 
transfer, whether  the customer had used the company they were  sending money to before 
and whether they had checked the payment details they were  given. And, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im not satisfied TSB asked  questions  like these. And so Im not satisfied 
it took sufficient steps to check whether  Ms K was potentially at risk of financial harm from 
this second transfer.
If it had asked further questions, and even if Ms K had again not given the real reason for the 
transfer, I think TSB would have  found  out that Ms K had sent money  to the same  shipping 
company three days before, had only had contact with the shipping company by email and 
hadnt checked the payment details.  On finding this out, I think  TSB should then reasonably  
have asked further questions, particularly around  why Ms K was sending further money to 
the shipping company for the same delivery only three days later.  And it should have warned 
her about  possible  similar scams.
Ms K has said she was already scared  and didnt know what to do after she was contacted  
by the shipping company the second  time.  And she uncovered the scam  quite  quickly after 
the luggage didnt arrive  the following day. So I think this further  questioning and warning 
from TSB would have caused her to at least investigate further and then likely uncover the 
scam.
And so if TSB had taken further  steps  to check whether  Ms K was potentially at risk of 
financial harm, as I think it should  have, I think the scam would have become apparent,  Ms K 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the second transfer  and wouldnt have lost the £27,820.  So I 
think TSB should refunded the £27,820 to Ms K.
As Ms K wouldnt  have lost this money  if TSB had done more, shes also now been without 
that money for a period of time. I therefore also think TSB should pay her compensatory 
interest at the rate of 8% simple a year,  from the date of the transfer until the date it is 
refunded.
Ref: DRN69502534I understand some of the funds from the second  transfer were recovered  from the receiving 
bank and have  now been refunded to Ms K. So TSB should deduct  the amount that was 
recovered from the £27,820 it refunds to her.
TSB and the receiving  bank have sent us conflicting evidence about why the recovered 
funds werent refunded  to Ms K sooner. But, from the evidence Ive seen, it appears at least  
part of the delay was caused by TSB sending incorrect details about the scam and transfers  
to the receiving bank.  So I think TSB should  also pay Ms K £250  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience these errors caused.
The first transfer of £4,400 would still have been sent before the scam was uncovered and 
so wed expect TSB to take reasonable steps to try to recover those funds from the receiving 
bank. But, from the evidence the receiving  bank has sent us, I think its likely the funds from 
the first transfer were removed before Ms K reported the scam. So I dont think TSB could 
have done anything further  to get that money back,  and so I wont  be asking it to refund the 
first transfer to Ms K.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Ks complaint in part. My decision is that 
TSB Bank plc should:
Refund Ms K the amount she lost from the second transfer, less the amount returned 
from the receiving bank, as set out above
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that amount from the time of the transfer until the 
time its repaid
Pay Ms K £250 compensation
HM Revenue & Customs  may require TSB Bank plc to deduct  tax from the interest  it pays  
Ms K. If it does,  and if Ms K requests  it, TSB Bank plc should provide her with a certificate 
showing how much  tax it has taken  off so that she may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6950253