K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the decision  by American  International Group UK Limited (AIG) to 
decline the claim he made against his personal accident insurance policy.
background
Mr M says that a consultant he sees for his glaucoma prescribed eye drops for him which 
destroyed the central vision in his right eye. So he made a claim against  his personal 
accident insurance policy for what had happened. 
AIG declined  the claim. It said that the claim wasnt covered by the policy as he hadnt 
shown that the cause  of the claim related to an accidental bodily injury. However, as Mr M 
has started legal  proceedings against  the NHS  trust, AIG has said that itll review  its decision 
on the claim if medical negligence is found to be the cause  of the loss of sight  in his right 
eye.
Mr M wasnt happy with the decision by AIG to decline his claim. So he made a complaint. 
AIG didnt  change its mind about his claim but it did accept  itd fallen below the level of 
customer service  it shouldve  given  to Mr M in a call he had with the claims department and 
also in referring to the incorrect policy  terms in a letter to Mr M. It apologised for this, gave 
feedback to the claims department manager,  offered Mr M £100 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused and changed  his claims handler.
Mr M wasnt happy with AIGs  response and so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought that AIG hadnt acted unfairly by declining  
Mr Ms claim. So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt agree with this and so the 
matter has now been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, I can assure  both AIG and Mr 
M that Ive given careful consideration to everything that has been  said and all the 
information that has been provided before arriving at my decision. 
I also think its important to explain that, as an informal dispute  resolution service, we take 
into account relevant  law and regulations under our rules when considering what is fair and 
reasonable to determine the complaint in accordance  with the law.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. I realise this will be disappointing  and 
upsetting for Mr M as this is a complaint he feels strongly about given the difficult 
circumstances hes currently dealing with. So Ill explain  why Ive come to this decision.
Ref: DRN68460692My role in a complaint like this is to decide whether AIG came  to a decision on Mr Ms claims 
fairly and reasonably, taking into account  the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Ms policy is a personal accident plan.  It is, therefore, designed and intended  to cover him 
in the event he has an accident which causes,  for example,  death  or permanent injury.  
The relevant  terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy  say that the benefit will be paid if Mr M 
suffers accidental bodily injury which, solely  and independently of any other  cause 
resultswithin 3 years in permanent disablement. The phrase bodily injury  is defined as:
Injury to the body cause  by a sudden act and not by any gradual cause or 
degenerative process
The policy doesnt  define the word  accidental. So in the absence of a particular or specific 
definition, it is reasonable that its given its ordinary  every  day  meaning  in the context of 
the rest of the policy. And with that being  the case, I think  the word  accidental (or accident) 
refers to something that happened unknowingly by chance, unintentionally  or unexpectedly.
Mr M says that being prescribed incompatible eye drops that attacked  the macular  in his 
right eye because he followed the consultants instruction was an accidental  cause  and the 
effect was a very sudden loss of his central  vision. 
But Im afraid this doesnt mean that the damage he has sustained  was the result of an 
accident for the purpose of a claim against  the policy.
Its generally accepted  that medical  intervention of any kind  surgery or medication   carries 
some degree of risk. And, having  looked at the medical evidence given to me in this 
complaint, I dont think its possible for me to fairly  say that this was an accidental bodily 
injury resulting in permanent disablement  under the terms of the policy  and, therefore, AIG 
should meet  this claim. 
I say this because  the medical evidence Ive seen  two letters from the treating consultant 
and Mr Ms GP  state that Mr M had experienced a similar issue  before with the cystoid  
macular odema and that hed been  on the same eye drops for a period but the change  that 
tipped him over the edge was to increase the frequency of the drops. It also states Mr Ms 
vision is very poor in his right eye, the medication had been varied and it was hoped  this 
would settle down. And Mr M himself says that the consultant  failed to review his notes 
because, if he had, the consultant wouldve seen that around 20 years before hed had a 
similar problem  with these drops, affecting his central vision and taking almost  a year to 
return to normal.
From everything Ive seen, I think its reasonable for AIG to conclude  that what  went wrong  
with Mr Ms eye was a complication  of the eye drops that could be anticipated and, from 
what Mr M has said, may have even had a degree  of inevitability to it given his previous  
history with the same drops. As a result, I think what happened to Mr M was more likely  a 
foreseeable and unfortunate complication rather than an accident which is covered under the 
terms and conditions of his policy. 
For these reasons, therefore, I dont think theres  enough evidence to say Mr M has suffered 
as a result  of an accident rather  than a known complication  such that he had a valid claim 
under the policy.  And so I think that AIGs  decision to decline his claim was in line with the 
terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN68460693I know that Mr M is unhappy with the service he was given by AIG. However, our awards are 
designed to compensate consumers, not punish  organisations.  And, in the circumstances, 
I think AIG took this seriously with the action it took to put this right.  And a compensatory  
payment of £100  is a fair and reasonable amount to address the service  Mr M was given.  
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings  to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with AIG  can do for him.
Finally, I note that AIG has said it will consider Mr Ms claim again  if hes successful in his 
medical negligence claim against the NHS  trust. This isnt something I can comment  on in 
this decision as it isnt a matter that AIG has yet had the opportunity to consider. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6846069