K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc merged her profile  with that of another  customer 
and asked the credit reference agencies to register incorrect information on her credit file.
background 
Mrs P suggested Santander  and or its agents  mixed her up with another customer.  As a 
result it sent the credit  reference  agencies inaccurate information which was put on her 
credit file. She thought that because of this she had to pay more  for her mortgage than she 
would have done otherwise.
Further, she was told, several times that Santander  would correct  its records  but it didnt until 
the last time.
Santander accepted it had sent incorrect information to the credit reference  agencies which  
they put on Mrs Ps credit  file. But it didnt agree this had had the impact she suggested it did 
on the mortgage product that she was offered.  It did agree it had told Mrs P more than once 
that it was going to sort things out and it didnt.
Dissatisfied, Mrs P came to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint. She recommended upholding it, in part. She 
could see that Santander had registered inaccurate  information on Mrs Ps credit file. She 
also could see that Santander had given  Mrs P the run-around.  It said it would put the matter  
right on more than one occasion  but failed to do this until the final occasion. Our investigator  
thought this did most likely cause  Mrs P to experience distress and inconvenience. She 
thought £750 was a fair award for this.
That said,  our investigator  didnt agree that she could fairly and reasonably  say that Mrs P 
didnt get the mortgage  she wanted  because of Santanders mistake.
Santander accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs P did not. In summary,  she was 
surprised at how long we had taken to get to this point  in our process. She was glad we had 
realised up to a point, the impact Santanders mistake had had on her. But she was 
frustrated and disappointed with our position on whether this mistake was the reason  why 
she did not get the mortgage she wanted  with the cheaper repayments.
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of Mrs Ps complaint. I find the offer that Santander has made is 
fair and reasonable. It follows that I have  no proper grounds for asking it to do anything 
further. I realise this will further  frustrate and disappoint Mrs P, who is currently  having a very 
trying time. I regret that is the case, I realise she can well do without  this too, at this time in 
particular. Please let me explain why I have come  to this decision.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
Ref: DRN68317532by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
It seems  both the parties agree that Santander let Mrs P down. It told her several times it 
had made  a mistake  and it would put it right. It didnt  though until finally after months it 
corrected the information  in its records and sent correct information to the credit reference  
agencies.
Further, it seems  both parties agree that Mrs P had to do all the running spending time 
chasing Santander, its collection agent  and one of the credit  reference agencies trying  to 
figure out what had gone wrong and how it could be corrected.  I think  it is quite clear that this 
all caused Mrs P avoidable distress and inconvenience.  I think £750 is a fair and reasonable 
award for all of this.
Mrs P suggests that the sole reason she did not get the mortgage  she was hoping to get was 
because of Santanders mistake. I can see that she is very upset  that she now has to spend 
more on the mortgage per month  than she was planning for. So much  so that she has had to 
change her working arrangements to be able to make  these  higher repayments.
But, nothing I have  seen  suggests it was only the merging of her profile and the information 
that Santander had sent to the credit reference agencies that caused her predicament. She 
wasnt guaranteed  the mortgage she wanted.  I realise she does not see it like that and she 
had taken a number of prudent steps  to improve her credit rating. As a result  she fully 
expected she would  get the mortgage she wanted  having done what she could to ensure her 
application would succeed. 
But lenders  take account  of many different factors when deciding who to lend to, on what 
terms and for how long. Whilst the incorrect information on her credit file may well have been 
one of the factors that was taken into account.  I cant say on balance that I find but for the 
mistake Santander made she would  have succeeded in the mortgage application that she 
tells us about. I say this even though she had relevant quotes for the mortgage she was 
after. That being  so I have no fair and reasonable basis  to make Santander give her the 
award she asks for.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mrs P £750 for distress  and 
inconvenience, as it has already agreed  to do.
Santander must pay the £750 within 28 days of the date on which  Mrs P accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £750  from the date of the 
final decision  until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple  per year.
Ref: DRN68317533If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs P can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Mrs P should refer back to Santander if she is unsure of the approach  it has taken and both 
parties should contact  HM Revenue & Customs  if they want  to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6831753