K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Brents of Brentwood Ltd (Brents)  mis-sold him an add-on  to his 
10 Year Structural Defects Insurance Policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  explaining that I wasnt  intending to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There are several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of 
Brents. For ease of reference Ill refer only to Brents by name  in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents/representatives.
Mr B was completing a significant extension and refurbishment of his property in 
2017. He bought a structural defects policy through Brents (a broker) and paid an 
additional premium  for Developer Insolvency Cover. Although he says he believed  
he was purchasing Contractor Insolvency  Cover.
In early 2018 the contractor employed by Mr B to complete  the works to his property 
informed him it was seeking  administration. Mr B, through  a representative, 
contacted Brents  to inform it, and put it on notice that he may wish to make a claim 
against the Contractor Insolvency Cover.
Mr Bs contractor  entered into liquidation,  but the directors of that company formed a 
new company, and Mr B employed them to finish the works. He told Brents  he 
wanted to claim against his Contractors Insolvency  Cover for the additional  costs  he 
incurred as a result of his contractor going into liquidation.
Brents advised Mr B that the policy he purchased didnt cover insolvency of the 
contractor, only insolvency of the developer  which in this case is Mr B himself. Mr B 
complained that he was mis-sold the policy. Mr B argued that he was told by Brents 
that he was covered for contractor  insolvency and supplied a copy of a demands and 
needs statement  from Brents which stated:
Policy Benefits  The amount  for the contractor going bust is £100k or 10% - 
whichever is the lesser and cannot be changed.
Brents responded to Mr Bs complaint in August 2018. It confirmed its original  
position that the circumstances  of Mr Bs claim arent  covered  by the policy.  But it 
accepted that the explanation  Mr B was given about  this element of cover  was 
incorrect and that Mr B wouldnt have purchased the Developer Insolvency  Cover 
had it been properly explained. So, it arranged to refund him the premiums  he paid 
toward that cover, to put things right.
Ref: DRN66575862Mr B brought his complaint to our service  where  it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  She agreed  that 
the demands and needs statement was mis-leading. But she thought  the remaining 
policy documentation  made it clear that Mr B was only covered for insolvency of the 
developer, not the contractor. She said the policy was sold on a non-advised basis 
and it was Mr Bs responsibility  to read all of the policy documentation  before  
deciding whether the cover offered was suitable  for his needs. Ultimately, she 
thought Brents  offer to refund the premium  for the Developer Insolvency  Cover was 
fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  assessment. He said even if it wasnt  an 
advised sale, Brents still had a responsibility to either put in place the cover he 
requested or advise  him that the cover  he required wasnt available, so that he could 
seek it elsewhere.
Mr Bs points  didnt change our investigators  opinion. So, because no agreement  
could be reached  the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I contacted Mr B and explained our services approach  to complaints about mis-sold 
insurance policies.  I explained that I hadnt yet made any decision  on whether his 
policy was mis-sold. But I explained  that even if I were to disagree with our 
investigators findings, and decide  the policy was mis-sold,  Id also need  him to show 
me that he had suffered a loss as a result. In this case  that would mean showing that 
he could have and most  likely would have obtained the cover he says he wanted 
elsewhere.
Mr B responded and provided details of another building warranty  (defects  insurance) 
provider. He said this provider confirmed that its Developer Insolvency Cover  
included the contractor. He also said that if he couldnt have procured this cover, he 
wouldve asked his contractor to purchase a performance bond   which provides 
cover in the event  of contractor insolvency.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt in dispute that Mr B was sold Developer  Insolvency Cover, which he didnt 
need. What remains  in dispute is whether Brents  has done enough to put things right 
by refunding the premiums for that cover. Or whether,  as Mr B would  like, it should 
reimburse Mr B for any losses  hes incurred from his contractor  going  into liquidation.
Mr B says he told Brents that Contractor Insolvency Cover was an important part of 
his needs. He says this is supported by the fact that the sales  manager referred to 
contractor cover, rather than developer cover in the demands and needs statement. 
Mr B says he was entitled to rely on the information  on the demands and needs 
statement provided by the sales manager, stating he was covered for insolvency of 
the contractor.
Ref: DRN66575863I havent seen  any documents or emails  from the time of sale which show  that Mr B 
told Brents that he was seeking insolvency cover for the contractor completing  the 
work on his behalf.  And unfortunately, recordings of the sales  calls arent available. 
But I can see that Mr B did ask several  follow up questions about the cover after 
receiving the demands and needs statement. For example, he questioned a clause in 
the policy which stated  that the Developer  Insolvency Cover excluded sub-
contractors and sub-consultants.  Mr B said he felt this created a gap in cover. So, it 
seems plausible  to me that Mr B was seeking  cover for the contractor, as he says.
I can see that Mr B asked the sales manager, in several emails, to confirm to him that 
the demands and needs statement, and their email  history, confirmed their mutual 
understanding of the cover, and so were  binding. But from these same emails, it 
appears that the sales manager advised Mr B that the demands and needs 
statement needed to be read in conjunction  with the policy wording. And that based 
on those, it was for Mr B to decide  whether the cover  was suitable for his needs as 
Brents couldnt give advice on this.
I agree  that Mr B was given incorrect information  on the demands and needs 
statement. But from the emails Ive seen it also appears Mr B was told that he also 
needed to read the policy wording, after he directly  asked whether  the demands  and 
needs statement  provided the cover  he needed. So, I dont agree with his assertion 
that he was entitled to rely solely on the information  provided in the demands and 
needs. Particularly as he seems to have doubted the accuracy of the statement from 
the outset  as shown  by his follow up questions and requests that Brents confirm 
the statement  was binding, which I note that it didnt.
Mr Bs policy  document contains several key pieces of information  which,  in my view,  
make it clear  that the insolvency cover Mr B decided  to buy only covered insolvency 
of the developer, not the contractor. Ill quote  them below.
When describing what Mr B is covered for, the appropriate section of the policy  
states:
If due to Insolvency or Fraud the Developer does not commence work  on a 
Residential Property  the Underwriter will refund the deposit paid by the 
Policyholder. If due to Insolvency or Fraud the Developer fails to complete the 
Residential Property  after work has commenced  the Underwriter will at its 
sole option:
 
1) pay the additional  cost required to complete the Residential Property; 
Or 
2) refund the loss of money paid by the Policyholder to the Developer as a 
deposit for the construction  of the Residential Property;
Provided that the Underwriter is only liable under this Section in respect  of 
monies paid by the Policyholder to the Developer  subject to a maximum of 
10% of the original  purchase price  for the Residential Property  or £100,000  
whichever is the lesser.
The special conditions to this section states:
Ref: DRN66575864The Definition of Developer under this section shall only include the Builder if 
the Developer and Builder  are one and the same legal entity for the New 
Development. For the avoidance of any doubt  the definition of Developer 
does not include  any sub-contractor  or sub-consultant employed at the New 
Development; it covers the Developer and the builder if they are one and the 
same only.
The policy also has two distinct definitions for the Developer and Builder respectively:
BUILDER 
Any person,  sole trader, partnership or company who undertakes the 
construction of the new Residential Property or Units.
DEVELOPER 
Either; Any person,  sole trader,  partnership or company with whom the 
Policyholder has entered into an agreement or contract to purchase the 
Residential Property  on either a freehold or leasehold basis,  or;  
Any person,  sole trader, partnership or company that constructs the 
Residential Property  and with whom  the Policyholder has entered  into an 
agreement or contract to purchase on either a freehold, leasehold or Scottish 
title or common hold interest.
Based on all of the available  information,  I think it ought to have been clear to Mr B 
that his contractor was not the developer  particularly as Mr B is specifically named 
as the developer on the build period schedule. I also think that from the information in 
the policy document, it ought to have  been  clear to Mr B that the contractor he was 
seeking to cover for insolvency was defined in the policy as the builder. And that the 
insolvency cover  would  only cover  that contractor  (builder) if they were  the same  
legal entity as the developer  which  they werent.
Ive explained  above that the evidence suggests  Brents told Mr B that all of this 
information needed to be reviewed before he made the decision as to whether the 
policy was suitable  for his needs. So, I dont think I can fairly  conclude that Mr B was 
entitled to rely solely on the information on the demands and needs statement.  I also 
dont think I can fairly  conclude that Brents mis-sold the policy  to Mr B. I say this 
because it didnt give Mr B advice, so it didnt need to make  sure the policy  it sold 
was suitable for him. And overall, I think it provided enough clear information  for Mr B 
to make an informed choice about  whether  the cover was right for him  despite the 
incorrect information it included on the demands  and needs statement.
Because I dont think Brents mis-sold the policy to Mr B, I dont need to consider 
what would  have happened if it hadnt incorrectly referred to the contractor on the 
demands and needs  statement. But for completeness, I would highlight that the 
information Mr B provided from the alternative  warranty provider seems to me to 
provide the exact same  cover  that Brents  sold him. I havent  seen any other Defects  
Insurance Policies on the market which provide the cover Mr B says he wanted.
Ref: DRN66575865Ive also considered that Mr B says he would have  asked  his contractor to purchase 
a performance bond, if Brents had been  clearer  with him. Ive already explained that I 
think Brents was clear enough,  overall,  despite  its mistake. But even if I decided it 
wasnt, I wouldnt uphold Mr Bs complaint based on this argument. I say this 
because although  a performance bond can provide cover for contractor insolvency, it 
is a significantly different product from the one Mr B was seeking  to purchase through  
Brents. The cost of a performance bond is usually borne by the contractor and 
negotiated as part of the tender  process. But as I understand it, works had already 
commenced at Mr Bs property before he purchased the cover  through Brents. There 
is also no guarantee that his contractor would have agreed to purchase  the bond,  or 
that it would  have been able to obtain  one. 
Brents has accepted that Mr B bought Developer  Insolvency Cover that he didnt 
want or need, in part because of an error  it made. Because of this, Brents has agreed  
to refund Mr B all the premiums he paid toward  that element  of cover.  I think  this is a 
fair and reasonable resolution  to Mr Bs complaint.
I said I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint, but that I was intending to direct  Brents 
to refund Mr B the premiums he paid for Developer Insolvency Cover  if it hadnt already 
done so.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision. Brents  didnt  have  anything  further to add. But 
Mr B responded with further comments and evidence he wanted me to consider. In summary  
he said:
Whether the sale was advised or non-advised isnt relevant. His complaint isnt about 
Brents advice,  but that it didnt provide the cover  he requested
In reviewing the policy document, the reviewer would expect to find contractor 
insolvency cover  in line with the information  received on the demands and needs
The policy does include some insolvency cover  for builders, contractors and 
developers which  required reference  to multiple  sections and definitions  to 
understand fully
In my provisional decision I have accepted Brents made  an error. He feels any 
perceived negligence on his part (which he disagrees with) was only contributory to 
his loss. So, he thinks Brents should  contribute a far more  significant amount toward 
his overall loss.
Mr B also provided some  emails  from the alternative warranty  provider which  state that their 
insolvency cover  does  include  cover  for a contractor employed by a policyholder.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the evidence and arguments  already sent to us to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional evidence  and arguments  provided  by Mr B.
Ref: DRN66575866Mr B has stated  that it is irrelevant whether the sale of the policy was advised or not advised,  
but I dont agree. I think the fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means  
Brents didnt need to make sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr Bs needs. It 
needed to provide enough clear information  for Mr B to make an informed decision on 
whether the policy  was suitable for him. It isnt in dispute that Brents provided incorrect 
information on the demands and needs statement. But in the particular circumstances  of this 
case, I dont think  this incorrect information  means that Brents  mis-sold  the policy. 
I say this because  Mr B clearly had some doubts about the information he received from 
Brents in the demands and need statement.  He asked  several  follow-up questions  including  
requesting that Brents confirm the demands  and needs statement was binding. Brents didnt 
do this. It explained  to Mr B that he needed to read the policy  wording alongside the 
demands and needs  statement. Brents also made  it clear that it couldnt  provide any advice 
on the suitability  of the policy, and that it was for Mr B to determine suitability for himself.  
So, while I wouldnt say it would be fair for an insurance intermediary to rely solely on a 
customer reading the full policy wording in every case   I think it is fair in the circumstances 
here.
Mr B argues  that because of the incorrect information in the demands and needs statement, 
he wouldve read the policy wording expecting to find the cover  he was seeking. He also 
says the policy wording does refer to insolvency cover for builders, contractors and 
developers in some way or another. He says he is not an expert in insurance, and it isnt fair 
to expect him to have  understood  from the policy document  that it didnt provide the cover he 
was seeking.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs arguments here, but they havent changed my view. From 
what Ive seen the policy document makes it clear  that the insolvency cover it provides 
relates only to the developer of the policy. The policy document contains a specific  definition  
of developer which does not apply to the contractor Mr B says he was seeking to insure.  
There is also specific definition of builder,  which does  apply to the contractor.  And, crucially,  
there is a paragraph  which explicitly states  that the insolvency cover will only apply to the 
builder if it is the same  legal entity  as the developer   which  in this case  it isnt. The policy 
document also explains that the insolvency cover is designed to protect the deposit  paid by 
the potential purchasers of a property from the insolvency of the developer. But in this case, 
there was no deposit paid as Mr B was always the property owner and was himself  the 
developer. 
Ultimately, I think  Brents provided Mr B with enough clear information to make an informed  
choice  despite the mistake it made  on the demands and needs statement. So, I dont 
agree that the policy was mis-sold.
I appreciate the information Mr B has provided from the alternative warranty provider  
although it directly contradicts what I was told by that provider when  I spoke with them  over 
the phone  and doesnt seem consistent with their policy document.  But, in any case, my 
decision is that the policy wasnt mis-sold. So, I dont need to consider whether Mr B could 
have obtained  the cover he was seeking elsewhere.
Brents has accepted that Mr B purchased cover that he wouldnt be able to benefit  from. It 
has reimbursed/offered to reimburse the premiums Mr B paid for that cover. I think  this 
results in a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Bs complaint.  So, I dont think it needs  to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN66575867my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
But in line with the offer it has made,  Brents of Brentwood Ltd must refund Mr B the 
premiums he paid for Developer Insolvency  Cover  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6657586