K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Scottish  Equitable  Plc (trading as Aegon) has, for a number of years,  
failed to deduct commission payments due to his financial  advisor from his pension fund. 
background 
Mr M has been represented in bringing  this complaint by his financial advisor. But for 
simplicity I will generally refer in this decision to all communication as being  with, and from, 
Mr M himself.
Mr M took out an arrangement with Aegon in 1999  to allow  him to withdraw pension income 
in a phased approach. The initial plan was taken out to manage investment and growth and 
when income or tax free cash was required funds were moved to a drawdown  plan to make 
those payments. As part of the arrangement Mr M agreed to pay his financial adviser 
fund related commission of 0.50% per annum. The phased plan matured in 2003  and all 
funds were moved into drawdown  at that time. The commission arrangement should have 
continued.
Due to an error by Aegon, the commission due to Mr Ms financial advisor stopped being 
deducted around 2007. In 2018 Mr Ms advisor noticed that the commission payments had 
stopped and raised the matter with Aegon.
Aegons policy is that it will only backdate missed commission  payments for a period of five 
years. In this case that actually means that Mr M will be better  off than he would have been 
since no commission payments will be payable from his fund for the period from when they 
stopped in 2007, to the point  in 2013 from which backdated payments have been made. So 
Mr Ms financial advisor that will incur some financial loss for Aegons error in stopping the 
payments.
Aegon advised Mr M that the payments that should  have  been deducted over the past five 
years amounted to just over £2,600. But those payments had also benefitted  from some  
investment growth  whilst they remained as part of Mr Ms pension  fund. So the total amount 
that Aegon  deducted from Mr Ms investment, to pay the backdated commission, was 
£3,274.78. In addition Aegon paid, from its own funds, some compensatory interest to 
Mr Ms financial advisor amounting to just over £500.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Aegon thought that it had acted reasonably and in line with 
HMRC rules  by deducting the backdated commission  from Mr Ms investments. But it 
understood that doing so would have caused  Mr M some distress and inconvenience.  It paid 
Mr M £300 in recognition  of the trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr M didnt  think  Aegons payment was enough.  He thought that Aegon should  also cover  
some of the cost of the backdated  commission payments. So he brought his complaint to 
this service. Mr Ms complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She didnt  
think that Aegon should pay any of the backdated commission.  And she thought  that the 
compensation that Aegon had paid to Mr M for the trouble and upset  hed been  caused was 
sufficient. So she didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld.
Mr M didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN68238572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Aegon has admitted that something went wrong when it cancelled  the commission  payments 
that should have been deducted from Mr Ms investments  and paid to his financial advisor. 
As I noted  earlier the value of Mr Ms pension fund is now higher than it would have been if 
the commission payments  had been  correctly deducted since Aegon  has only backdated  the 
payments for a part of the period that they were  missed. 
Mr M has said that he has been  left financially disadvantaged by this commission being 
backdated and taken from his plan. He says that his spending patterns  might have been 
different if hed been aware that the value of the plan would have been lower  each year due 
to the commission  being taken. Im sure that it is disappointing for him to see this amount 
withdrawn in one lump sum. But I also need to take into account that Mr Ms fund has been  
reduced by the equivalent  of around  £300 for each year that the commission wasnt paid. 
I dont think that is sufficient for me to think that Mr M would have significantly changed the 
withdrawals he made  each year, or the way he used  his pension fund.
I dont think that it would be reasonable to expect Aegon to meet  the cost of some or all of 
the commission payments  that have been backdated. These payments were due to be taken 
from Mr Ms investment. Ive not seen anything that makes me think  Mr M hadnt agreed  to 
make those payments  when his investment was first set up, or that hed told Aegon  to stop 
making the payments. So I think it is right that they are paid by a reduction  in the value of 
Mr Ms fund.
I can understand how upsetting this matter might  have  been for Mr M. He reasonably  
expected Aegon to implement the instructions hed given. So I think its right that Aegon  
should pay him some compensation  to reflect the trouble and upset the mistake has now 
caused him. Having  considered the matter carefully I think the payment Aegon  has made, 
of £300, is reasonable compensation for Mr M.
my final decision
I think that the payment Scottish  Equitable  Plc has made to Mr M in respect of the trouble 
and upset hes been caused is fair. I dont make  any further  award against Scottish 
Equitable.
Ref: DRN68238573Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6823857