K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about the handling of her jewellery claim by U K Insurance Limited under 
her home insurance policy. Mrs W is represented by her son but Ill refer to her throughout 
this decision.
background
Mrs W had to make a claim after shed been burgled. UKI appointed its jewellery experts to 
visit Mrs W to discuss  the items that had been stolen. Mrs W felt she was put under pressure 
during this meeting. UKI said following  the visit that many of the items could be replaced or a 
replica made. Mrs W didnt agree. She said some  of the items were  antique and said the 
value of the stolen pieces  was higher than the valuations placed  on them by UKI. As 
agreement couldnt  be reached Mrs W brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Although she understood Mrs W mightve felt 
uncomfortable having a meeting she accepted it was an appropriate  way for UKI to make  
accurate valuations. She said it was fair that UKI apologised about how she felt and had fed 
this back to its jewellery experts.  But she said the valuations placed  on the items were based  
on details and descriptions provided by Mrs W. Our investigator said there wasnt any 
evidence to show incorrect values  had been applied, that UKI suppliers wouldnt be able to 
replicate the stolen items, or the replacement  options would be inappropriate. She felt the 
offer was fair. 
Mrs W didnt accept this and asked  for her complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs W wouldve felt under pressure when the jewellery experts visited 
her to discuss the stolen  items. I think thats perfectly natural in the circumstances. In 
fairness to UKI theyve  apologised and relayed this to their appointed experts. In terms of 
how they review stolen items and get details  of the items  claimed for, what  they look like, 
their design  and how they can value  and arrange  replacement I think  that visiting  customers 
is a reasonable  way of dealing with such claims.  I think this service  sees  more  complaints 
where customers dont feel theyve had a chance to explain their claim. In relation to the visit 
I dont think UKI acted unfairly.
Mrs W has said that some of the items are antique, handmade and cant be replaced.  UKI 
has offered to replicate some items, give vouchers for some  and pay a cash settlement for 
the others.  Mrs W doesnt think this is enough  and she wants  what  she considers to be the 
full market value  in cash. The policy terms UKI are using are pretty  standard across the 
insurance market. This does allow UKI to choose to repair, replace or pay cash.  The policy  
wording also allows UKI to use its own suppliers as it does get discounts  for doing so. This 
means any cash offer is likely to be in line with the discounted cost UKI would have  to pay its 
suppliers. I dont think what UKI has offered is unreasonable, I think  UKI has been  quite 
flexible and this is how insurers generally  settle these types of claim.
Ref: DRN60700302I do think there could of course  be individual items  that Mrs W would like UKI to consider 
differently. For example  perhaps something  she might prefer to have replicated rather  than 
have vouchers. I think thats fair and I think  UKI are happy to consider treating some items  
differently as long as agreement can be reached  regarding the value.  It has said itll pay 
cash for items Mrs W doesnt  want to replace.
I can only decide on the evidence Ive seen.  The evidence has come from the valuations 
produced following the visit by UKIs jewellery  experts. Mrs W has said that some  of the 
items were antique and handmade. Ive no reason  to dispute this but theres no evidence to 
show it. Our investigator pointed out that photos and valuations are often useful  to show  the 
age and details  of such items. But the details seen havent shown or confirmed this. UKI has 
said that itll consider  any images Mrs W provides as its confident it can reproduce  the 
jewellery. In the circumstances  I think thats reasonable.
Mrs W suggested some of the items were bought abroad but UKI has valued  them  based on 
the UK market which it says is usually a more expensive market  than most  other  parts of the 
world. I think thats fair based on the evidence.
Looking at the options and offers put forward by UKI I thinks  its acted  reasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6070030