K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited declined a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy following  the theft of his motorbike. 
background
Mr Bs motorcycle was stolen and he made a claim to MCE. But it declined the claim as it 
said the steering  lock hadnt been activated  at the time and this was a requirement stated in 
the policy terms and conditions. Mr B said hed not received these.  He said hed used other 
security devices and the bike was in a locked shed at the time of the theft.  Mr B cancelled  
the policy and he received  a refund of premium which  MCE increased  to £75 which  it said 
was to account for the difficulties he had in accessing his policy documentation.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought the steering  
lock requirement was clearly stated  in the policy documents  and so he thought MCE would 
normally be entitled to decline  the claim. But he thought this was an unusual requirement 
and that it should have  been brought clearly to Mr Bs attention when he took out the policy. 
But he couldnt see that this had been done.  He thought Mr B would have acted differently if 
hed known about the requirement. So he thought MCE  had unfairly  declined  the claim.  He 
thought it should reconsider the claim in line with the rest of the policy  terms. 
MCE replied that Mr B would have  had to tick a box that hed read the Key Facts for the 
policy when he bought it. It said the requirement was clearly  stated in these and Mr B hadnt 
complied. It questioned whether the other security devices had been in operation at the time 
of the theft.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to MCE on 8 July 2019. I summarise my findings:
MCE relied on a policy  term and condition to decline Mr Bs claim. I saw that the requirement 
for the steering lock to be activated when the bike is left unattended is clearly stated in the 
policy Key Facts, and again in the policys exclusions. I thought this was arguably a 
significant exclusion, though not unusual, because  it limits the extent of cover.  And so I 
would expect it to be set out in the policy wording and in the summary or Key Facts 
document, as it has been.
Mr B said he hadnt received his policy documents or been able to access them  online and 
he provided evidence  to show this. But I could see from MCEs records  that Mr B raised this 
on one occasion  with MCE, but he didnt  pursue  this any further. MCE responded to his 
request and showed that it did send the policy documents by email  though  Mr B said he 
didnt receive these. 
But Mr B did show that he could access his previous years  documents online.  These  would 
have contained  the same exclusion and so I thought MCE sufficiently brought  this to his 
attention. And I thought Mr B could reasonably have raised this with MCE again. So I 
couldnt say that MCE  made an error  in not providing him with the documents for his policy.  
Ref: DRN66067482When Mr B bought his policy, he would have  had to tick a box saying that hed read the Key 
Facts in order to progress  his application.  I thought it was then for Mr B to read and 
understand these  Key Facts, including the exclusion, to make  sure the policy  met his needs. 
Mr B thought  it relevant that MCE had paid him a small  sum in recognition of further 
difficulties he had in accessing his policy documents.  But I still thought  MCE took reasonable 
steps to make Mr B aware of the policy exclusion when  he took out the policy.  I thought  Mr B 
didnt again tell MCE he didnt have access to his documents  until after he made a claim. So 
I didnt agree that the gesture of goodwill was significant. 
So I thought  the policy exclusion was clearly  stated and sufficiently drawn to Mr Bs attention  
when he bought his policy. I thought it was for him to then comply with it. And I thought it 
would normally be reasonable for MCE to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim. 
But our approach is that an insurer can only fairly decline a claim if it can show that the 
exclusion its relying on is material to the loss. In this case, MCE would need to show that 
not having the steering  lock activated  led to the bike being stolen. 
MCE explained the importance of the steering lock in deterring theft. It said removing the 
activated lock would  damage the bike and this would deter a theft. It said the bike with the 
lock activated  couldnt be wheeled away but would turn in a circle. It also said that other 
security devices, such as the disc locks that Mr B said hed applied, could be more  easily  
removed. 
Mr B said hed applied  the two disc locks and locked the bike in his shed. I havent any 
reason to not believe Mr B as hes also freely told MCE  that he didnt  apply the steering lock. 
In the claim notification call, Mr B said he didnt engage the steering lock. He said this was 
because he thought if the bike were  to be stolen, then a thief breaking the steering lock 
would make the bike beyond economical repair and he didnt want to risk this. He said there 
was no debris from the disc locks at the site. So he thought the bike had been  lifted  away. 
The shed was located behind Mr Bs house  on his driveway which was accessed by a dark 
private road.  
MCE said the bikes weight would mean  that it would be unlikely to be carried away. But I 
couldnt see that itd shown how the bike could otherwise have  been  stolen. 
I thought MCE had shown that having  the steering lock activated would have deterred this 
theft. Mr B said he hadnt applied the lock. The additional security measures he employed  
didnt prevent the theft. So I thought it was fair and reasonable for MCE to decline the claim 
because of the exclusion.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or MCE, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to not uphold  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor MCE provided any further  representations  for me to consider. In that case, I 
can see no reason to change my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN66067483my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6606748