K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold Mr M and the late 
Mrs M1 payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
Mr M took out the mortgage with the late Mrs M1. Mrs M2 is complaining on behalf  of the 
estate of Mrs M1.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr Ms comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr M has said that PPI was not discussed with him. He received a phone  call to go and sign 
mortgage documents. He rushed in from work and signed where he was told to, and rushed 
out again. He hadnt realised he was agreeing to PPI. Mr M says he was very young at the 
time and had trusted the local branch staff that the paperwork related only to the mortgage. 
I can see how its possible that someone  in a situation like that might  not look at what  they 
were signing  properly.  But it would  not be fair for me to decide RBS did something wrong in 
the way Mr M believes, without some stronger supporting evidence. And I can see that some  
of the paperwork  that Mr M signed  did relate  clearly  to PPI, including the direct debit 
authority he signed.  
I also can see that later paperwork did make mention of the PPI, and I think  other letters are 
likely to have referred  to it too. 
Ive thought about other reasons the PPI might have been  mis-sold, but I still dont think  it 
was:
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M (the person covered by the PPI) and the late 
Mrs M1, as being  particularly suited  to their individual  needs.  But even if it had made 
a recommendation,  I think it would  probably have been an appropriate  one in Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant 
difficulties, and the PPI would have  paid out in addition to any employer sickness and 
redundancy benefits, and possibly for longer.  So it would have been potentially 
useful. 
Ref: DRN64286652The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think (if he had read the documents 
properly, which I accept  he says he didnt know he should  do) Mr M would have  
understood how much it would  cost. 
Its possible RBS didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Mr M would have been  affected  by any of these.
So, overall, this means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
1.RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M and the late Mrs M1 about  that. Because RBS 
didnt do this, that was unfair. 
2.To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Mrs M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6428665