K822xabout the complaint
Mr W complains that in 2001 he was advised  by Sesame Limited (Sesame) to transfer his 
pension into a drawdown plan, when he should have been advised  to seek  reinstatement 
into the British  Coal Staff Superannuation  Scheme (BCSSS). He also complains that he 
should have been made aware of the opportunity to have his original transfer looked at 
under the industry wide pension review at the same  time, which might have mitigated his 
overall losses. 
background
In 1991 Mr W transferred his benefits  from the BCSSS into a personal pension  after 
receiving advice from an advisory firm. In 1996, Mr W received  further  advice from another 
firm and transferred the funds to a personal pension with another  provider. In 2001, 
Brampton Financial Services (Brampton), who were then part of the Sesame  Network,  
became servicing  agents for Mr Ws plans. For the sake of clarity Ill refer only to Sesame in 
the rest of this decision.  
Following advice from Sesame in 2001  Mr W transferred one of his existing personal 
pension plans to a drawdown  plan.  He withdrew  25% of the fund as tax free cash and began 
taking regular withdrawals  of £111.59 per month. In 2005 Sesame transferred the servicing 
of Mr Ws plans to another  adviser and in 2010  another firm advised Mr W to transfer his 
existing drawdown  plan to a new provider.
In 2018, Mr W received £48,000  from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme in 
respect of the initial advice to transfer  out of the BCSSS. He also decided to complain  to 
Sesame about  its advice from 2001.  He said he should have been advised to transfer  the 
pension back to the BCSSS as he didnt need any income or tax free cash  at that time. He 
said the pension  had been transferred purely  for the benefit of the adviser to claim 
commission. 
Sesame did not uphold the complaint. It said that it thought the advice to transfer to a 
drawdown plan had been suitable because it met Mr Ws requirements  around tax free cash 
and income. It said Mr W had confirmed he needed  the money for his family  to live on. It also 
said that it wasnt responsible for either  the initial advice to transfer out of the BCSSS or to 
transfer to another personal pension  in 1996. But it did offer Mr W £200 for the delay in 
responding to his complaint.  
Mr W didnt agree with that outcome so he brought  his complaint to us, where one of our 
adjudicators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld  as he felt that, 
although it would have been possible for Mr W to seek reinstatement to the BCSSS in 2001, 
there was no reason  for Sesame to be aware  of this or even that the funds  had come  from a 
previous occupational pension scheme  transfer  given that the recommendation was made 
ten years  previously and by another adviser.  
The adjudicator also felt that it was the responsibility of the original advisory firm to 
compensate Mr W regarding  the BCSSS  transfer,  and not Sesame.
Mr W disagreed.  He made the following points:
Sesame would have  known about his circumstances since at least 1990,  because its 
adviser had also been  his accountant. So, Mr W thought the adviser would have  
Ref: DRN63966192known about his pension being transferred  from the BCSSS and should have 
recommended reinstatement into the scheme. 
He didnt need to access cash from his pension  because he was not intending to 
retire until age 65, and therefore  the drawdown  plan wasnt suitable. He told the 
adviser of that fact at their meeting at which his wife was also present.
He thought the Sesame adviser  should  have told him about the opportunity to have 
his pension transfer looked into under the pension  review  in 2001,  especially as the 
firm that initially advised him to transfer  was still trading at that time.
The adjudicator responded making the following points.  
Sesame had nothing  to do with the original advice to transfer out of the BCSSS and 
so didnt cause  any of the financial losses Mr W suffered.
Sesame also wasnt responsible for failing to advise Mr W to complain about  the 
advice. That was up to the original adviser to contact Mr W about  the pension  review 
and any possible reinstatement.
Although it was accepted that Sesames  adviser had previously acted as Mr Ws 
accountant this didnt mean his advice should  have been about  the original matter.  
His role was to advise on Mr Ws current  circumstances and objectives.
He though on balance that the drawdown  plan had been  discussed and Mr W would 
not have agreed  to it if he didnt  think it was in his interests. And if Mr W didnt require 
any income the adjudicator would have expected him to raise that issue  at the time.
Mr W accepted that the initial advice to transfer out of the BCSSS  had been  unsuitable,  
which wasnt Sesames responsibility, but he thought Sesames advice in 2001 had made 
the problem worse. So, as no resolution  could be found the complaints been passed to me 
for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise this outcome will disappoint Mr W 
and I have some sympathy for his position  as its been agreed that he was given unsuitable 
advice in 1991 for which hes only been  able to recoup around 20% of his total losses  so 
Ill explain  my reasoning.
 
Should Sesame have made Mr W aware  of the pension review  and reinstatement option?
Theres no suggestion here that Sesame was responsible for the original advice Mr W 
received to transfer his BCSSS  benefits  into a personal pension. What Mr W has complained 
about is that his adviser from 2001,  who was part of the Sesame network,  should  have made  
him aware  that his plan could be reviewed  under  the industry-wide pensions review  and that 
it might  be possible to reinstate him into the BCSSS  if the firm that gave  the initial advice 
was willing  to pay to do so. 
Mr W says that in 2001 his adviser should  have  made him aware of these options because  
all advisers at the time had been  told to warn their clients  about  such matters  and his 
adviser did know about his previous situation  as he had originally  been  Mr Ws accountant 
before taking over as his financial adviser in 2001.  
Ref: DRN63966193The business which advised Mr W to transfer from his occupational  pension  scheme (OPS) 
to a personal pension, which Ill refer to as firm A, was responsible for that advice. And it was 
also responsible  for subsequently mailing Mr W about the industry-wide pension  review. As 
that firm is no longer trading I cant determine whether or not it did send those mailings  but 
it was obliged to do so, and its likely that it would  have  done so. This wasnt Sesames 
responsibility and I dont think it had any obligation  to determine what  may have happened in 
that respect  following the transfer in 1991.
But even if Sesame did know  about  the OPS  transfer  which  Mr W says it did because  the 
adviser was previously his accountant, it was probably reasonable for it to have thought firm 
A would have mailed Mr W about the pension review, as the review was drawing to a close 
by that time. It would also have been reasonable to assume that another  firm (firm B), which 
advised Mr W to transfer from one personal  pension to another in 1996,  might equally have 
already raised  the issue, especially as when firm B was making  its recommendation the 
pension review would have been more  of a hot topic.
Based on the sequence of events Ive set out above, I dont think  Sesame was obligated to 
revisit and question the advice Mr W received from firm A in 1991 and check whether it had 
been reviewed  or complained about.
I have taken into account that Mr Ws accountant  did give him financial  advice  in 2001, under 
Sesames administration,  to help Mr W transfer  to a drawdown plan and withdraw tax free 
cash and take a minimum  income. That seems to have been  a transactional agreement 
because when the first triennial review was due on the drawdown plan another  firm was 
asked to take over the servicing of Mr Ws pension. 
But I dont agree this meant the adviser was fully aware  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time 
of the advice in 1991  or knew  of the reasons behind the transfer.  The adviser hasnt been 
able to provide  any detailed  notes  of the discussion  he had with Mr W in 2001, some 
10 years  after the original advice, so its difficult  for me to safely conclude that the adviser 
was in possession  of all of the facts  from the original  recommendation. Theres  no 
persuasive evidence  for me to say that the adviser knew  about  the transfer, was aware  that 
it hadnt been reviewed under the industry wide pension review and also knew that Mr W 
could be reinstated  into the OPS.
For me to decide that the adviser had been negligent and not made  Mr W aware that he 
ought to review the original advice, I would need  to be sure that he knew  about Mr Ws 
pension history from 1991 including what firms A and B had subsequently told Mr W. Ive not 
been provided with sufficient  evidence  for me to draw that conclusion. So I dont think  
Sesame was obliged  to question whether Mr W had been offered a pension  review or 
whether reinstatement  into the scheme  was possible.
It also follows that I dont  think sesame ought to have made Mr W aware of the review before  
firm A stopped trading, so that he could have potentially recouped more of his losses and 
had the chance to be reinstated into the BCSSS by that firm before that option ended in 
2007.
The suitability of the advice in 2001
I have also considered the suitability of Sesames advice in 2001 because  Mr W says it 
shouldnt have advised him to go into drawdown  as he didnt plan to retire  or need any 
income. Sesame met with Mr W in 2001 as he was approaching  his 50th birthday and 
Ref: DRN63966194therefore eligible  to take the tax free cash  and residual income,  from his existing pension 
plans. Sesame thought the best way to do this was through a drawdown plan so that Mr W 
could keep the funds he didnt require  invested. 
Theres very little information  available about any discussions  or advice that was given in 
2001, apart from the advisers letters to providers  to take over the servicing of Mr Ws 
personal pension  plans. So its difficult to be certain about the reasons behind  any 
recommendation that may have been made.  Although I have seen that the adviser  asked the 
ceding pension  provider to provide comparative  quotations for an open market option,  
immediate annuity  and an income  drawdown  plan, all with the maximum tax free cash  
having been withdrawn.  So I think its more likely than not that the various alternatives were  
discussed with Mr W.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that I would have expected  Mr W to have raised concerns at 
that time if he didnt  have  any requirement for cash and felt the recommendation was 
unnecessary. As Mr W signed  an application  form to release the tax free cash  and minimum 
residual income I would have expected him to have had some  monetary requirement. I think 
its unlikely Mr W would  have agreed to something he had little or no use for, so I think on 
balance its likely he had a requirement  for some  funds at that time.
And, as I think Sesame did explore the other options available  to Mr W, I dont think its 
recommendation was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
Summary including  offer for distress and inconvenience
I have some sympathy for Mr W that he hasnt been  able to obtain compensation for the full 
extent of the losses that he suffered  as a result of firm As advice to transfer his OPS  
benefits in 1991. 
But, ultimately I havent been persuaded  that Sesame was negligent in 2001 by not making 
Mr A aware of the possibility of reviewing the original advice and potential  reinstatement  into 
the BCSSS. These were firm As responsibilities and I dont think  Sesame was obliged  to 
revisit the situation   even if the adviser might  have had some knowledge of what happened.
I also dont believe the advice Sesame gave in 2001  was unsuitable given what  was known 
about Mr Ws circumstances at the time.
I note that Sesame has offered Mr W £200  for the delay in responding to his complaint.  In 
the circumstances I think  thats a fair and reasonable  offer for the impact of any distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay, so I dont think Sesame needs to do anything  further.    
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint, as I think the offer that 
Sesame Limited has already made  for the delay  in responding to his complaint is fair and 
reasonable. So Sesame Limited should  pay Mr W £200 if it hasnt already done  so.
Ref: DRN63966195Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6396619