K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance policy (PPI) in 
1997.
Although Marks &Spencer sold the policy, Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer has 
taken responsibility  for the sale. To keep things simple I have referred  to Allianz in this 
decision.
background
Ms M applied for a charge  card in 1997.  At the same time she bought  a PPI policy.
The PPI cost around £0.66 per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance  on her card.  It 
would have paid 15% of that balance each month if Ms M had lost her job or couldnt  work 
because of an accident or sickness. And it would have paid out on a successful claim until 
the outstanding balance  at the time she made  her claim had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this claim should be upheld. Ms M disagreed with this view and 
asked that her complaint be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Ms M signed when she applied for her 
store card and the PPI. Theres  a separate section for the PPI. The section to apply for the 
PPI contains a box which has been ticked to take the cover. Ms Ms name and date of birth 
has also been entered into the section. Ms M says that it isnt her handwriting and that the 
form was completed by the shop assistant. It might have been filled in by the shop assistant, 
but this section could have been left blank.
I can also see the whole form has been completed with Ms Ms personal details. Ms M has 
signed and dated the form. As she was taking on a new financial  commitment, I think  she 
likely would have read the form before signing it. I also think  it would have appeared on her 
charge card statements as a separate entry. If Ms M wasnt  sure about it she could have 
questioned it and cancelled the policy at any time.
Overall, on balance I think Ms M bought the PPI knowing she could decline it if she didnt 
want it, even if its understandable if she doesnt remember that now nearly 22 years ago.
I dont think Allianz recommended the policy. Ms M says that she was recommended  to take 
it out. The assistant  might have said it was a good idea to take out the PPI but thats not the 
same as saying Ms M had to have it. And theres  nothing Ive seen  in the paperwork to make 
me think a tailored recommendation was made for the PPI. That meant Allianz  didnt need  to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for her. But it still needed to give her enough 
clear information so that she could decide  for herself  if she wanted it.
Ref: DRN69124962Ms M says as she had never been  unemployed and she was entitled  to sick pay - so she 
didnt need the PPI. But as this wasnt a recommended sale Allianz  didnt have to take into 
account her circumstances when she applied. In any event, the policy  paid out in addition  to 
any sick pay she had and potentially for longer than her sick pay from work would have 
lasted.
Allianz still had to give her clear  enough information about the PPI. Ms M says that she 
wasnt given any information and the PPI wasnt fully explained.
Its possible that the information wasnt as clear as it could have been. But I then have to 
think about whether  if shed had better  information  it would have put her off buying the PPI. 
And I dont  think it would have.
I say this because  I think  she would have understood that the policy would have covered her 
repayments if she lost her job or couldnt  work. And she wasnt  affected  by any of the main 
limitations on the policy which might have  made  it more difficult  to make  a claim - such as 
having an unusual  employment situation  or a pre-existing  medical condition. So I dont think  
better information would  have  changed  her mind  and I still think it would  have been  useful if 
things went wrong.
Theres nothing which makes me think the policy  was unaffordable for her and the cost of 
this policy  was lower than other comparable policies for the benefit  it provided.
Ive taken into account everything Ms M has told me, including what  she has said about 
another complaint about PPI being  upheld. But we take each case on its own merits. And the 
facts which  applied in one case didnt apply here.
So overall, having thought  about  everything  I dont think Ms M lost out because of anything 
Allianz did wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. So Allianz  Insurance Plc 
doesnt have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6912496