K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about issues  shes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.
background
In December 2017 Miss M was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi.
In November 2018 the engine cut out and the warning lights illuminated to indicate  that the 
oil pressure was low.
Miss M arranged for a local garage  to look at the car. It found  metal particles in the oil and 
heavy sealant  on the timing  chain covers which it said suggested that the engine  had been 
dismantled and reassembled previously. 
The garage told Miss M that repairs would cost between £1800 and £2250. Miss M 
contacted the supplying  dealer but it refused to carry out the repairs.
Miss M complained to Hitachi, who arranged for an independent inspection  of the car. This 
took place in December 2018. The report said the engine showed signs  of internal damage, 
the nature  and extent of which could only be determined by dis-assembly and further 
inspection. The report noted  signs  of oil leakage  and heavy sealant deposits suggestive  of 
historical dismantling and reassembly  of the engine. The report  concluded that there was 
nothing to suggest that the car wasnt road legal or of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Based on the independent report Hitachi rejected Miss Ms complaint. It said there was no 
evidence that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point of supply and noted  that 
Miss M had covered in excess of 10,000 miles since then.
Miss M paid £2700 to have the car repaired.  She wants Hitachi to reimburse this and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought there was enough evidence to suggest 
that a previous repair carried out before Miss M entered into the agreement  had caused the 
faults. She also thought that a car of this age and mileage shouldnt  require such  extensive 
repairs to the engine within a year of the agreement starting.  The investigator recommended  
that Hitachi reimburse Miss M for the costs of repair.
Miss M didnt agree. She said the car had recently  failed its MOT due to a power steering 
pump needing replacement. Shed also been advised that the turbocharger  needed 
replacing. Miss M said in the light of these further issues  she wanted to reject the car.
Hitachi didnt agree either. It said the fault had been  reported after 6 months from the point of 
supply and the independent report stated there  was nothing to suggest  the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67686722Miss M relies on the rights that she has under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975.  
Its important that I set out my role here. Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a 
consumer might have under section 75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Ms 
complaint. Ive taken  section 75 into account.  But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Miss M pursued a claim for breach of 
contract.
Because Hitachi supplied the car under a fixed sum loan agreement  it is equally responsible  
with the supplying dealer  if theres  been  a breach of contract. Theres  a legal requirement 
that a car has to be of satisfactory  quality. If it isnt, this is a breach of contract. A car is of 
satisfactory quality if it is of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all relevant circumstances such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of 
the car and the price paid.
Miss M and Hitachi disagree  about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  
to reach  a decision I need to look at the available evidence  and determine,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss M reported the fault with the car in November 2018. At the time shed been driving the 
car for approximately  10 months and had covered approximately  10,000 miles.
Ive looked at the independent report. This says theres evidence  of an oil leakage and signs 
of internal damage to the engine. It also says there were heavy sealant deposits around  the 
timing belt consistent with historic dismantling and reassembly of the engine. The report  
suggested two possible causes of the engine failure  as follows:
Heavy sealant applied  to the timing  cover is likely to have detached internally, 
entered the oil system and restricted oil flow into/out of the oil pump
Currently active oil leakage lowering the engine oil level might, if undetected, cause 
interruption in oil supply and cause damage not corrected by subsequent re-filling of 
the oil sump
The report  noted  that the oil leakage was in a location associated with areas  involved in 
dismantling of the timing  covers.
Hitachi has relied on the conclusion in the independent report that there was no evidence to 
suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. Whilst I accept  that 
the report says this, it also says that further  investigation is recommend to ascertain the 
cause of the reduction in oil pressure and that only at this point will be able to determine of 
the vehicle had a developing issue at the date of purchase.
Because of this contradiction, I dont  think the independent report  is reliable. It is at best 
inconclusive. Moreover, the report clearly  identifies previous dismantling and reassembly of 
the engine and links the heavy sealant associated with such dismantling  and reassembly  as 
one of the possible cause of the fault (heavy  sealant  entering the oil system).
In considering whether the car was of satisfactory  quality Ive also had regard to durability. I 
dont think a reasonable person would  expect a car engine  to fail within a year of the point of 
supply, as it did in this case.
Ref: DRN67686723Ive noted what  Hitachi has said about the mileage covered by Miss M since  the point of 
supply. Whist there  are some  types of fault which I would expect to present themselves fairly 
soon after the point of supply, in this case it seems more likely that the fault developed 
gradually (through continual oil loss)  or suddenly (through heavy sealant becoming  detached  
and entering the oil system).
On balance, I think its more likely  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply as a result of the previous dismantling  and reassembly of the engine.  Because  of this, 
I think the responsibility for putting things right lies with the business.  Hitachi should 
reimburse Miss M for the costs of repair.
I appreciate that Miss M has since experienced some further issues  with the car. Theres 
nothing to suggest that these issues are related to the engine fault. And theres nothing  in 
the independent inspection dated December 2018  to suggest that there  was a fault with the 
steering pump or the turbocharger.  Its more  likely  that these  further issues  have arisen  due 
to wear and tear, which I would expect to see in a used car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should reimburse 
Miss M £2,700 for the costs of repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6768672