K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
in connection  with his mortgage.
background
In 1990 Mr C took out a mortgage  with Halifax,  which later became part of Bank of Scotland. 
At the same time Mr C took out PPI to cover his income and protect  his mortgage payments 
in the event he couldnt work through accident,  sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £14 a month and it provided  a benefit to cover  Mr Cs monthly mortgage 
payment of approximately  £350 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  The adjudicator said the evidence  showed 
that Mr C chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing  to indicate hed lost out as a 
result.
Mr C disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr C with 
enough information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for him based on his needs  and circumstances 
at the time. Ive taken this into account  in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide  as there  is limited evidence available from the time of 
the sale, around 29 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr C that he had a choice about  PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in October  1990  in a meeting.  Mr C has said in his submissions to 
Bank of Scotland that there was a discussion about protection but that he just signed the 
forms. I dont  know  what Bank of Scotland said to Mr C but I do have his application forms 
for the mortgage  and the PPI which I think its more likely than not give an indication.  
I accept it is possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr C a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Bank  of Scotland gave him the impression he had to take it out. But it 
seems more likely  Bank of Scotland gave Mr C the opportunity to take out the policy  or 
decline it as part of his mortgage application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply 
forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed. 
Ref: DRN63500652I say this because  on the mortgage  application  form it says that if you wish to take the PPI 
please enter the amount  of cover you require in the box. And the box contains the figure  
£350. Mr C has signed and dated the form. 
There is also a separate  application form for the PPI. This contains information  about the 
PPI, some  eligibility questions  and a declaration that I wish to take the cover . Mr C has 
completed the form and signed and dated  it next to the declaration. 
And had he chosen  not to purchase  PPI, or had it been added  to his account  without either  
his knowledge  or consent, I wouldve expected  him to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as I think its likely that the PPI cost made his monthly repayments 
shown on his statements  over £14 higher than the monthly  cost of the advance he would 
have seen in his loan offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr Cs complaint) it is more likely than 
not Bank of Scotland presented the policy to Mr C as compulsory or that it didnt tell him 
about the policy at all.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr C properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr C lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr C. I also 
dont know what information Mr C was given about  the PPI, for example, whether he was 
told about the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover.  I find it unlikely Mr C agreed  to 
take the cover out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if he received 
everything he needed to know to allow him to make  an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Bank of Scotland recommended to Mr C that he take out PPI. I accept Mr C may not have  
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr C has lost out as a result. I say this 
because, given Mr Cs circumstances and needs at the time, I think the policy  cover  was 
suitable for him. And I find it unlikely  that Mr C would have acted differently and not gone  
ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland had given him more  information. My reasons are as 
follows:
Mr C was eligible for the cover and all its benefits
Mr C was working and in good  health  at the time, so it doesnt appear  he would have 
been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations of the cover such  as existing 
medical condition  exclusions or unusual employment terms. 
Mr C was buying the house  on his own. I note that he had savings that could have 
covered his payments for a time if he became sick or lost his job. Mr C has said in his 
submissions to Bank of Scotland that he had 12 months of sickness and redundancy 
pay entitlement from his employer, and then in his submissions to this service  that he 
had 24 months entitlement. I can understand that he may not be clear after all this 
time. But I think its unlikely he had more than 12 months  entitlement as, in the 
experience of this service,  that is very unusual. And Mr C, again  understandably  after 
all this time, has not been able to provide evidence to support this other  than that he 
had a high level role at his employer.  Nonetheless,  the policy would have  paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay from his employer for up to 24 months for 
Ref: DRN63500653each claim and enabled him to keep his savings for other things. So I think  Mr C had 
a need for cover  and that it would have been useful  to him if Mr C found he was 
unable to work. It could  have helped him financially at what  would be a difficult  time - 
it could have helped  him protect his home. 
I find it unlikely Mr C would have agreed to something without having some 
understanding of the cost and I note that the cost is shown clearly  on the PPI 
application form. And I think its unlikely he would  have declined  it solely  on the basis  
of its cost had it been made clearer to him. Ive already said he had a need  for it and 
at approximately  £14 per month it appears to have been affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
C may not have been treated fairly  and reasonably  by Bank of Scotland  in its dealings with 
him, I find hes not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons Ive detailed  above, 
I think Mr C would have been in the same  position if Bank of Scotland  had done  more and 
properly advised  and informed him - I think he would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr C has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with his mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6350065