K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account without notice and wont reopen it.
background
Mr H had a current account  with Santander. He moved abroad a few years ago, but he 
wanted to keep a bank  account in the United Kingdom so that his pension could be paid into 
it once he retired.
In January and February 2017  Mr H made a number of payments from his PayPal account, 
which were funded by corresponding payments from his Santander account. The last of 
these payments made his account  overdrawn,  and so Santander began to charge monthly 
unarranged overdraft fees. A total of £465  in fees were charged between March  and August, 
by which  time the account was overdrawn by more  than £500. None of the fees were paid, 
and so the account was defaulted  and closed.
Mr H did not know that the account was overdrawn or that it was closed until November 
2017, when he received  a statement at his address overseas. He says that until then hed 
thought the account was in credit. He complained that Santander  had not told him he was 
overdrawn, and had not told him it had closed his account. He asked for the account to be 
re-opened.
Santander cancelled  the overdraft charges and removed the default  from Mr Hs credit  file, 
because it had not sent him a default  notice. One of its call handlers told him his account 
would be re-opened,  but this was incorrect: Santander is unable to open an account once it 
has been closed.  For having given Mr H incorrect information, and for some  delays in 
dealing with his complaint, Santander sent him a cheque for £600 in February  2018.  But it 
said it could not re-open the account,  nor could it give him a new account unless he was 
resident in the UK.
Mr H brought this complaint to our Service. He said Santander should  have told him about  
the overdraft, and that it should not have allowed his account to become overdrawn in the 
first place  it should not have allowed the final transaction to go through. Hed had to spend 
a lot of time on the phone with Santander, at inconvenient times because of the different 
time zones.  He insisted  he had told Santander his new email address when he had changed  
it when he left the UK. He said Santander  should  have  emailed  him at that new address, and 
also that it should have sent a letter to his address overseas.
Santander said it was not its process to send letters to customers abroad. It had no record  of 
Mr H ever having updated his email  address,  so it had emailed his old address. Since it had 
not sent him a default notice, it had removed the default from his credit  file. But it had still 
been entitled to close his account, because it had been in arrears for so long. It described 
the £600 cheque as a gesture  of goodwill.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said that there was no evidence  that Mr H 
had told Santander  his new email address, and Mr H himself had been uncertain  if he had 
done so or not. She pointed out that Mr H had been able to monitor  his account by using 
online banking, so he ought to have known  that the account was overdrawn. She accepted  
that Santander was unable to re-open the account. The £600  was fair and she didnt think  
Santander should have to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN60206422A second adjudicator reviewed this complaint, and reached the same  conclusions. She 
added that it was not for our Service  to tell Santander which  methods to use to communicate 
with its customers.
Mr H did not accept those  decisions. He said the £600 was only compensation for his stress 
and inconvenience,  not for the loss of his bank account. He said Santander was 
discriminating against him because he didnt live in the UK. He would have to temporarily 
move to the UK to open a new account,  in which  case he should  be refunded the cost of 
doing so. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Santanders terms and conditions allow it to pay a transaction that takes the account  over its 
overdraft limit, and to charge unarranged overdraft fees. I therefore dont think Santander did 
anything wrong  by charging  those fees.  Nevertheless, it has refunded them  anyway, as a 
gesture of goodwill. It didnt have to.
Santander has also paid Mr H £600.  That was not a gesture of goodwill, but compensation 
for the length of time this has taken to be resolved  and for the inconvenience that has been 
caused. That is more than I would have  required Santander to pay for the errors I find it did 
make, which  are the ones it has admitted to  defaulting the account without notice, giving 
Mr H conflicting information about  whether he could have a UK account  again, and delay. 
I agree  with Mr H that the £600 was not intended  to be compensation for the loss of his 
account. But I do not think that his account was closed in error, so no compensation is due 
to him for that.
I dont think Santander  is obliged to write letters (other than default notices) to customers 
who live abroad.  It was a UK account,  opened when Mr H lived in the UK. It was enough for 
Santander to email Mr H at the last email address it had for him. Although Mr H said in his 
first email  to us that he was certain that he had told Santander his new email address, I note 
that he told the first adjudicator in a phone call (on 31 August 2018) that he wasnt sure if he 
had or not, and Santander has no record of the new address. On balance, I think it is more 
likely than not that Mr H did not tell Santander  his new email  address, and that Santander 
tried to contact him at the most recent one it knew about.
In any case, I agree  with our adjudicators opinion that it was Mr Hs responsibility to keep an 
eye on his account  balance and to make  sure it was not overdrawn. He made  eight 
payments from the account in January and February 2017 (and a ninth in April). These 
payments came to nearly £200,  and the accounts  balance prior to those  payments  had been  
less than £138. He didnt  check  his account balance until November. Thats  not Santanders 
fault.
Santanders policy is not to open  a UK account  for someone who is not a UK resident. Its 
not within my remit to interfere with that. Indeed, I generally cannot  require  a bank to open 
an account for someone if it does not want to. I could  make an exception  if the customer had 
once had an account which had been wrongly closed by the bank, but I do not agree that 
Mr Hs account should not have been closed. It had been overdrawn for about  nine months, 
and none of the fees had been paid in that time.  Santander did not have to keep  the account 
Ref: DRN60206423open indefinitely.  It closed the account  and sent the balance to collections, which  is what 
I would expect it to do eventually.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6020642