K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Miss B took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst  in a shop in 
1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss B has said she didnt know she had PPI, so it was added  without her knowledge or 
consent. Ive seen a copy  of the application  form that Miss B signed. There is a separate  
section for PPI and a box has been ticked in that section to request the policy.
Miss B says she was just asked to fill in her details and the assistant filled in the rest of the 
form. Ive thought very carefully about this, but overall Im unable to conclude that Miss B 
wasnt given a choice  about having the policy. 
Below the section  for PPI, there is another section for another type of insurance, and this 
has been struck through to show that Miss B doesnt  require it. If, as Miss B says,  the 
assistant filled out the form and selected the PPI for her, I might have expected her to end 
up with all of the other  available  insurance  options as well.
Ive no doubt that Miss B has provided  her honest recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Bs memory  of the sale has 
faded slightly. Based on the available evidence, I think  that FICL made Miss B aware that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Miss B probably  decided to buy it, knowing that she 
didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Miss B, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Ref: DRN62349922Miss B would have  received some  sick pay from her job. But the policy  would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for longer than Miss B would have received full pay for. 
Miss B had some savings, but these  were earmarked for a wedding and so where not 
available savings that she would ideally wish to use to cover her repayments.  Having the PPI 
would have meant she could have retained her savings or used them to cover  other  
outgoings at what  would  have been  a difficult time.  Shes  said that family would have helped. 
But other people  cant always  be relied upon as their circumstances can change. So I think 
Miss B had a need for the policy and could  have benefitted from it if shed been  unable to 
work due to illness or if shed lost her job. And she seems to have found the policy 
affordable.
Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss B wasnt affected by any of those  things. As I 
think that Miss B had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Miss B isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6234992