K821x#15Complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about an unsuccessful money transfer and the service he received from
N26 Bank GmbH.
Background
On 30 April 2019, Mr B attempted to transfer  £1,000 from his N26 account to another
account he had with a different bank. The transfer  didnt  go through,  so Mr B contacted  N26
over the days that followed  to find out what was happening. Mr B says he needed to use the
money to pay bills.
The money was returned to Mr Bs account  around  two days later and he was able to
complete the transfer. But he was unhappy with the overall service hed received and made
a complaint. Mr B says he was given inaccurate  and differing accounts of what was
happening whenever he contacted N26 to enquire about the status of the transfer.  He was
also unhappy that N26 didnt always ask security  questions when he made contact via its
live chat facility.
N26 says the transfer was placed on hold pending approval because  Mr B hadnt input the
recipient account  holders  name in full. N26 says this is normally  a quick  process, but in this
instance, there was a delay in releasing the funds because of a public holiday in Germany
(on 1 May)  where most of the banks staff are based. N26 explained that its customer
support team wouldnt  have visibility of this information and this is why its staff misinformed
Mr B.
Mr B asked this service to step in. Our investigator  didnt uphold  the complaint concluding
that the transaction failed  and was put on hold because  Mr B only input part of the recipient
account holders  name. She didnt think it was unreasonable for N26 to hold the funds in
order to ensure the transfer was received by the intended recipient. The investigator  was
satisfied with N26s explanation for the delay and misinformation.  She also concluded that
N26 hadnt acted  unfairly when it didnt  run through a full set of security  questions with Mr B.
Mr B disagreed and reiterated his concerns about  the service hed received. He asked for an
ombudsman to carry out a final review.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision, explaining why I think the complaint should be upheld:
Blocked transaction
In my opinion, N26 didnt act unfairly when it placed the transaction  on hold. N26 told us that
its payment process  reminds  customers to use the recipients full name.  I asked to see a
copy of this, but N26 didnt provide it. So I cant say for certain that Mr B was reminded.
However, given how banks operate, I dont think its unlikely. Ive seen copies of the live chat 
conversations Mr B had with N26, where the customer support team appears to remind  him
of the need to input the full name  of the account holder. So I think  its likely that this was part
of the banks process.
Mr B only input the recipients first name  and I dont think  it was unreasonable for N26 to
hold off on completing the transfer,  so that it could be certain that Mr Bs money was being
Ref: DRN66023632transferred to the intended recipients account. It just so happens that this process  took
place around a public holiday in Germany.  So, although Mr B didnt have  access to his
money for around two days, I cant fairly  say that N26 was the reason for this delay - given
its unlikely the bank couldve done much  to avoid the impact  of the public holiday.
Security questions
Mr B is concerned that N26 didnt always ask him a full set of security questions  when he got
in touch via its live chat system. N26 tells me that it only asks additional security  questions
when a customer hasnt  already been fully verified. It says this happened on four occasions.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr Bs information wasnt  secure  or that sensitive data
was discussed  in an unsecure way. N26 also says it can give advice  to customers without
verifying them too. So I wont be asking N26 to do anything in relation to this.
Information provided via live chat
Ive looked through the information Mr B was given  via N26s  live chat system. I can see that
Mr B was given different  updates and timescales  for how long the transfer  would take to
complete:
on the day of the transaction,  at first he was asked to wait a few days because  there  
was a problem  with the banks  system.  He was later told that this information was 
incorrect and that the transfer should complete by the end of the day
the next day, Mr B was told the transfer  could take up to one working  day
a day later, Mr B was told that this could in fact be two  three business days  
because of the public holiday
I note that there was the occasional mention that Mr B needs  to make sure that he uses  the
full name  of the recipient.  But at no point was there a suggestion that the transaction  is likely
to be on hold because  of Mr Bs error. Instead,  Mr B was assured  that the money would go
through and was given a varied  range  of timescales for how long this could take.
I accept that the team  Mr B was communicating with may not have had access  to
information regarding  the transaction once it was placed on hold. But, in my view, its 
unreasonable that the bank consistently misinformed Mr B. It seems to me that no-one was 
sure what  had happened and simply gave Mr B a different timescale each time and expected
him to wait.
Mr B made it clear  that he needed the money  to pay bills. But N26 didnt do enough to help
him and this, understandably caused him some  stress. So, to put things  right, Ill be asking
N26 to pay Mr B £50 compensation.
Overall, I dont  think N26 acted unfairly when  it placed the transfer  on hold. And if it werent
for the public  holiday, Mr B wouldve likely had his money back  within  a day. Im satisfied that
N26 didnt do anything  to put Mr Bs personal  data at risk. So I wont be asking the bank to
do anything else in regards to these points.
But N26 couldve provided  a better  and more  reliable  service to Mr B when communicating
with him about  this transfer. So I intend  to uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN66023633What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B didnt have anything further  to add and N26 replied accepting  my provisional  findings. 
So I have  nothing further to comment on in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I'm upholding this complaint and instruct  N26 Bank  GmbH to 
pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 11 May 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6602363