K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI in store at the same time she applied  for her store card in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs C owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs C couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job until her unemployment or her disability 
ended or the outstanding amount was repaid.
Our adjudicator didnt  think complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with this view and 
asked that her matter  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs C and Ill explain my reasons  why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  was whether Mrs C was given a fair choice about  taking  out 
the PPI. She has told us that she was led to believe it was a requirement  of taking out the 
card.
FICL has been able to provide me with a copy of the credit agreement  Mrs C signed when 
she took out the store card and the PPI. On it theres a section which  is headed account 
cover next to which it says (Only sign this box if you require Account Cover) . 
Mrs C has signed this part of the form showing she wanted to take out the cover.  She could 
have left it blank  if she didnt want to take out the PPI. I can also see from the completed 
form that other optional  features were  left blank and theres nothing on the application which  
makes me think she would have been  led to believe she had to have the PPI to get her card.  
Overall, it looks  as though  Mrs C made her choice to have the PPI, so I think  its more likely 
she wanted to take out the cover  knowing she could decline it if she didnt want  it - even if its 
understandable if she cant remember doing  so now after so long.
Mrs C says she was recommended to take out the policy. But I cant  see that a tailored 
recommendation was made to Mrs C and taking into account  what we know  about these 
types of sales I dont think its likely FICL  advised  Mrs C to buy the PPI. That meant  it didnt 
have to make sure it was suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough  
clear information so she could decide  for herself  whether or not she wanted the policy.
Ref: DRN65506592Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even  if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information,  I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken  out the policy.
I say this because  she was eligible for the cover and doesnt  appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy  didnt  cover, such as unusual employment 
circumstances or a pre-existing medical condition.
Mrs C has told us she would have received six months full sick pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer  if she was off work and she says she had savings of £1000  and 
shares worth around £3000 which gave her sufficient means to help her make the 
repayments for 12 months.
As the PPI wasnt recommended  to her, FICL didnt need to check her circumstances to 
make sure it was suitable. Even so, the PPI would have paid out on top of any sick pay she 
received and likely for longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. And it meant she 
could use her savings  for any other important living expenses if she couldnt  work. And 
Mrs C wouldve had to sell her shares at whatever the market  value was if she needed extra 
cash quickly. So I still think the PPI could have been useful if things went  wrong.
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I think  its likely Mrs C chose the cover - 
so it looks like she wanted this type of insurance.  I think it was affordable for her and I think  
the policy could  have been  useful  if something  went wrong. I dont think  Mrs C would have  
been put off taking it out even with better  or clearer information. So I dont think Mrs C has 
lost out as a result of anything FICL may have  done  wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6550659