K821x#15complaint
Mr M is represented.  His representative says Insight Financial Associates Limited (IFAL) 
gave him unsuitable advice  in 2009  to switch  his four Personal Pensions  (the PPs)  a 
Zurich PP and three Royal London  (RL) PPs  to a Rowanmoor Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (the SIPP)  in order to facilitate his second investment in an offshore commercial 
property scheme (the scheme).  His representative  says both the switch  and the underlying 
investment were unsuitable for him.
background
Before summarising the background,  the following is noted:
IFAL disputes the complaint and says that, in any event, Mr M has already received a 
refund/compensation from the schemes  operator that exceeds  the capital he 
invested in the scheme; that, in addition, he has also retained rental income received 
from his investment in the scheme;  and that, in this context,  his complaint is 
meaningless.
In response,  Mr Ms representative concedes that he has received a refund from the 
scheme operator, but he maintains  his complaint  on the basis that he is yet to be 
compensated for the loss of growth  the PPs would  have experienced, had he not 
switched from them to the SIPP and had he not liquidated the PPs and reinvested his 
pension funds, through the SIPP, in the scheme.
The background of Mr Ms complaint can be summarised as follows:
His first investment in the scheme,  prior to engagement  with IFAL, was in 2008 and 
that appears to have  had a non-pension based funding.  In 2009 he was engaged in 
making a second investment in the scheme and it is this venture  that involved IFAL  
and involved pension-based funding. He completed a Pension Funded  Reservation 
Form for the scheme on 13 August 2009  which identified  the investment and 
confirmed selection of a payment plan  a refundable reservation fee of 2,000 Euros, 
a 45% investment deposit payment and payment of the remainder  55% upon 
completion of the property.
IFALs records show that it completed  a Fact-Find exercise on Mr M on 23 
September 2009  having previously, on 3 September 2009, conducted research for 
him. A Confidential  Financial Review form completed by IFAL  on 23 September  
features Mr Ms pension switch to the SIPP and his investment in the scheme but 
states that the basis for its advice to him was Limited only to the SIPP.  The form 
recorded that he was single without  dependants, employed (£24,000 annual income, 
£1,600 net monthly  income and £600 monthly  disposable income)  and that his assets 
were limited  to his mortgaged residential home  (with £87,000 outstanding on the 
mortgage), his previous investment in the scheme,  £2,000 in his bank account and 
his PPs. The form also recorded that he was 41 years  old, he planned  to retire at age 
65, he had no occupational pension  plan, his objective for the second investment in 
the scheme was to provide a comfortable retirement  for himself, he had a medium  to 
high risk profile and he understood the nature of risk associated to an overseas 
property purchase  given his previous  investment  in the same  scheme.
Ref: DRN65858222IFALs records at the time also referred  to earning initial commission  of £500 + 
£1,675.68 (in addition to renewal commission of £250)  from the business.  Its 
Financial Planning Report for Mr M was prepared  on 29 September  2009. In the main  
it said  Mr Ms business was introduced to IFAL by the scheme operator and the 
associated agent; it referred to his previous investment in the scheme and his pursuit 
to make a second investment in it; it confirmed limitation of its advice only to the 
matter of finding the most suitable SIPP provider to facilitate the property  purchase,  
and not extending to suitability of the SIPP itself for the purpose of the purchase and 
not extending to suitability of the purchase; it summarised his overall profile 
(including reference to a high risk profile) and presented details of his PPs; it also 
presented details of the scheme  investment; it recommended Rowanmoor; and it 
concluded with general information  (including general risk warnings) about SIPPs 
and commercial property investments.
Mr Ms application for the SIPP was also completed in September  2009. The 
application referred to his intended investment in the scheme; it contained the details 
of the PPs he was switching  from; it confirmed IFAL as his adviser  with IFAL 
completing and signing a declaration within the application form  earning a £500 fee 
for facilitating a transfer to the SIPP and £250 per year for Fees  for ongoing 
advice. The property  information schedule attached  to the application  confirmed that 
the construction of the property underlying  the investment was due to be completed 
in 2011 and that the investment had been made  for rental revenue, by way of a 
leaseback to the vendor.
On 2 November  2009 Zurich wrote  to Rowanmoor confirming the transfer  of 
£6,828.89 from Mr Ms Zurich PP to the SIPP and on 4 November 2009 RL wrote  to 
Rowanmoor confirming the transfers  of £3,156.80, £17,611.74  and £5,292.93, all 
from his three RL PPs to the SIPP. Rowanmoor wrote to IFAL  the following day to 
confirm all receipts. His investment  in the scheme was made thereafter. The funds 
liquidated from the PPs were  augmented by some borrowing (by Mr M) in order  to 
pay the 45% deposit.
Mr Ms representative presented his complaint  (as summarised above) to IFAL in 
October 2018. Within  the complaint, the representative said Mr M was a novice 
investor in 2009 with a low risk profile; that IFAL recommended  investment  in the 
scheme through the SIPP without properly  explaining its characteristics to him; that 
he did not have  capacity to lose his pension;  that he was misled to believe the 
investment was of a low risk nature; that he was not able to sell the illiquid  
investment at the time;  and that he sought  compensation from IFAL to cover  his 
losses and to reinstate his previous  PP arrangements.
IFAL initially questioned our jurisdiction to address the complaint  because it considered the 
complaint out of time,  but that issue was resolved  by an Ombudsmans decision which 
confirmed that the complaint was made in time and that we have jurisdiction to address its 
merit. One of our investigators  then looked into its merits and concluded that the complaint  
should be upheld.  He noted that IFAL was fully aware of the underlying investment intention  
behind the switch to the SIPP and that it had a regulatory obligation to advice on the 
suitability of the venture as a whole  (including the underlying investment); that it did not do 
that and, instead,  it limited  its advice to the SIPP only; that, had it done so, it would have 
advised Mr M that the investment  was unsuitable  for him  which it was  because  he lacked 
the financial capacity  for it (including a lack of capacity for loss, the absence  of savings and 
Ref: DRN65858223the absence of alternative pension arrangements  for him after funds in the PPs were used 
for the investment). 
The investigator also considered that Mr M had neither a high risk nor experienced investor 
profile, that IFALs facilitation of the use of all his PPs in the high risk and unregulated 
scheme was unsuitable  and that if it had advised  him against the investment he is likely  to 
have followed such advice. He proposed  redress to Mr M that would discount  any 
refund/compensation he has already received  from the scheme operator but would also seek  
to put him as close as possible into the position he would  probably be in had he been given 
suitable advice.  He also proposed that Mr M should be paid £200  for the trouble and upset 
he has been caused in the matter. Mr M accepted this outcome,  but IFAL  did not. 
In the main,  IFAL said it did not initiate the idea of Mr Ms second investment in the scheme; 
if Mr M informed it that he could not afford  the deposit without undertaking borrowing it would 
not have been involved in the matter; his main  and original complaint was about  the agent  
for the scheme so holding IFAL responsible for that is unfair; he has already received full 
and final compensation from the scheme operator in the matter  so maintaining the complaint 
against IFAL is unfair for this reason too; irrespective  of its regulatory obligations, it is clear 
that Mr Ms plan was preconceived and that he was intent on executing  it, so he needed  its 
help only in setting  up the SIPP; it made him aware of the associated  risks in the course of 
its assessment and suitability letter and he was already so aware  given that he had 
previously invested  in the scheme; it cannot safely be said that he would have followed 
advice against  the investment if he was given such  advice; and the benchmark used in the 
proposed redress  formula  is based on a medium risk profile, whereas Mr Ms PPs held some 
low risk funds.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as the investigators, for broadly the same reasons.
Regulatory Context
The regulators Principles for Businesses are relevant to this complaint and they applied at 
the time of Mr Ms engagement with IFAL. Principle  2 requires a firm to conduct  its business 
with due skill, care and diligence; Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems; and Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
The regulators Conduct of Business  (COBS) rules  are also relevant  to this complaint and 
they too applied at the time of Mr Ms engagement with IFAL. COBS 2.1.1R requires a firm 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients  
and in relation  to designated investment business carried  on for a retail client;  and COBS 
9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess the suitability of investments recommended to 
its clients. 
The regulator issued  a pensions related industry  alert to firms in 2013 which I have also 
considered. I acknowledge that this alert post-dates the events between Mr M and IFAL in 
Ref: DRN658582242009. However, the alert created nothing new and it simply applied the pre-existing 
Principles, rules and regulatory obligations upon  firms to matters  brought  to its attention  at 
the time about  how retail clients were being advised  on pension switches and transfers. The 
alert included the following:
It began  with this statement   It has been brought  to the FSAs attention  that some  
financial advisers are giving advice to customers  on pension  transfers  or pension 
switches without assessing  the advantages or disadvantages of investments 
proposed to be held within the new pension. 
It continued to say  The FSAs  view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally  
requires consideration of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice 
is given on a product  which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition , 
that is, the wrapper  and the expected underlying investments in unregulated 
schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to financial advisers that, where  a customer 
seeks advice on a pension transfer  in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice on the pension transfer  must take account  of the overall  investment strategy 
the customer is contemplating.; and  if you give regulated  advice and the 
recommendation will enable investment  in unregulated items you cannot  separate  
out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. [my emphasis]
The regulator reinforced its views in a further  alert in April 2014 and said;
We believe  pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream 
propositions are unlikely  to be suitable options  for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms  
operating in this market  need to be particularly careful  to ensure their advice is suitable.
Where  a financial adviser recommends a SIPP  knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
I have considered this additional alert in the same context I referred to above   that is, 
applicable to the events  in 2009  because it created nothing new and reflected the Principles,  
rules and regulatory obligations  that applied previously (including  2009). In 2009 the 
regulator published a checklist for pension switching. I have considered this too. It 
highlighted four issues firms were expected to address:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ref: DRN65858225In order for IFAL to have  conducted itself with due skill care and diligence,  to have carefully 
and reasonably organised and controlled its advisory service to Mr M and to have upheld  his 
best interests, it essentially had to discharge its advisory service to him in the overall  manner 
set out above.  As I explain below, I do not consider  that it did.
Did IFAL  meet its regulatory obligations  in assessing suitability of Mr Ms proposed 
pension switch?
IFAL should have conducted  detailed  [advisory]  comparisons  between  Mr Ms PPs and any 
considered or proposed SIPP (including areas  such as structure,  terms, benefits  and 
charges) in order to illustrate his options  and in order  to support any recommendation to 
switch or not to switch. IFAL did not do this. Its suitability report went as far as to present the 
details of each  of the PPs, but not as far as conducting meaningful  comparisons between  
their characteristics and the characteristics of the Rowanmoor SIPP  (or of any other 
considered SIPP). 
IFALs report provided reasons why the Rowanmoor SIPP was being recommended,  but 
that was not a competent substitute for the comparison exercise I have  referred to. I 
appreciate that IFAL  would argue that the only determining factor in the switch was the 
SIPPs ability to hold the scheme investment and that the PPs could  not do that, so the 
comparison exercise I have mentioned would have been pointless.  However,  I refer again to 
the regulatory rules  and guidance set out above.  In that context, the switch did not become 
suitable just because it was a convenient  means  by which Mr M could invest in offshore 
commercial property. The 2009 checklist (above) goes beyond  such  an isolated 
consideration, and IFAL  should have done  the same. Overall, on balance and for the above 
reasons, I am not satisfied that suitability of the switch, for Mr M, was established by IFAL.
Did IFAL  meet its regulatory obligations  in assessing suitability of Mr Ms proposed 
pension switch  and investment in the scheme?
In practice and faced  with Mr Ms instructions, IFAL had key and unavoidable  questions to 
address in the course of providing its advice. They included  Why was Mr M interested  in 
switching? Were his reasons reasonable and were they in his best interest? Given his 
overall circumstances,  should IFAL  recommend  the switch? IFAL had no credible ground to 
limit its advice to Mr M to the extent that none  of these matters were addressed in the form 
of advice  as opposed  to the generic information it gave on SIPPs and commercial 
property investments which did not amount  to advice on the merits (or otherwise) of 
investing in the scheme  and of the pension switch.
The overall matter had to be in Mr Ms best interests. The switch to the SIPP (including its 
underlying investment) had to be worth  the movement away from the PPs he held and 
should, in practical  terms, have had prospects of putting him in a better  position  than the 
PPs did. Otherwise, there would arguably  have been no point in him switching  pensions  and 
no justification in him incurring  the costs associated with a switch. This applied even if he 
had a preconceived idea about investing  in the scheme.  IFAL  was the expert in the 
relationship, with the regulatory obligation to address suitability (or otherwise) of that idea.
IFAL did not assess  suitability of the scheme investment. It argues that it was a redundant 
matter, because it was an investment Mr M decided upon before engaging IFAL and one he 
intended to pursue in any case. However,  this does not justify ignoring it. The task that faced 
IFAL was to discharge  its advisory responsibility  (in the manner required by the regulations 
and guidance  set out above) by assessing  suitability of the investment  and the switch,  whilst 
Ref: DRN65858226also reflecting what Mr M expressly  said he wanted  to do. In other words, it had to assess 
suitability, inclusive of Mr Ms instructions  not to abandon such  an assessment because  of 
his instructions. Its role was not just to facilitate what Mr M wanted  to do, it was to advise  on 
whether (or not) what he wanted to do was suitable  for him. 
The scheme investment  was not suitable  for Mr M in 2009  and later in 2013 and 2014 the 
regulator considered such unregulated schemes to be generally unsuitable for retail  clients.  I 
do not consider  that his previous investment in the scheme in 2008 was as relevant as IFAL  
has argued or that it automatically made the 2009  investment suitable. Furthermore, IFAL 
was not involved  in the 2008 investment so it had no grounds  to know or to assume that it 
was suitable for him in that year. In any case,  it had to assess  suitability based on Mr Ms 
profile in 2009.  His overall profile in 2009  was recorded in documentation  created by IFAL  
(as I summarised above), so it was fully informed about his circumstances at the time. 
Those circumstances  included a notable lack of capacity for loss  he had no savings; the 
£2,000 that he had was in a current account,  so it appears to have  been  money  to be used, 
not saved; he had no occupational pension arrangement, and upon liquidation of the PPs he 
had no other  pension arrangement; he was in receipt of relatively modest earnings; and he 
had an outstanding mortgage. Such a financial capacity profile did not lend itself to a high 
risk unregulated offshore commercial property  investment. The potential risks of illiquidity 
and lack (or absence) of rental income  in commercial property investments were, alone,  
enough to render the scheme unsuitable  for him, given  his profile.
I also echo the concerns  the investigator had about  the lack of diversification  as an 
additional reason the scheme  was unsuitable.  Having already invested  part of his capital in 
the scheme in 2008, facilitating  the investment of all his remainder capital (and money  from 
all his PPs, plus money  borrowed) into the same scheme was inherently unsuitable in terms 
of diversification. It put him into a position  in which all his capital  growth of which he hoped  
for and relied  upon for his retirement   was invested  in a single high risk unregulated 
offshore commercial property scheme. Such lack of diversification constituted  a high-risk 
factor in itself. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above  I am persuaded that the scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr M and that IFAL failed in its obligation to advise him about that 
unsuitability. I have  reached this conclusion whilst also sharing the investigators view about 
Mr M probably having a balanced/moderate  risk profile  as reflected, overall,  in the PPs and 
contrary to the high-risk  profile IFAL  assessed   so the scheme mismatched that. The 
overall profile conveyed  by the PPs is what counts,  so IFALs reference  to the existence of 
some low risk funds  in the PPs does not defeat  this overall finding.
Causation
IFAL recommended the switch to the SIPP without establishing its suitability for Mr M and it 
facilitated the unsuitable scheme investment through the SIPP  without assessing suitability 
of that investment for Mr M. However,  it argues that none of these points matter and that 
advice against  the investment would not have a difference in 2009 because Mr M would 
have found a way to achieve the switch  and the scheme investment in any case. 
I have not seen evidence that supports this argument. I accept that Mr M was pre-
determined to invest in the scheme and, as part of that, he needed a pension wrapper that 
would hold the investment. However,  he went to IFAL for advice and paid for that advice 
(both on an initial and ongoing basis). The implication that arises  is that he would have taken 
Ref: DRN65858227and probably followed  advice. In doing  so, and with suitable advice  not to switch his 
pensions and not to invest in the scheme,  I am satisfied, on balance,  that neither  would have 
happened.
I have not seen evidence that suggests he was the insistent client that IFAL  appears to 
have portrayed  him. In order for that to have been  the case IFAL would have needed to, first, 
advise him about  the unsuitability of the switch and scheme investment and advised him 
against proceeding with both; and then he would  have  had to reject that advice and insist on 
proceeding with both regardless  of IFALs advice. Neither happened in Mr Ms case.
Conclusion
For all the above  reasons,  I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been  
given suitable  advice. On balance, I consider that he would have behaved differently if he 
was advised not to proceed with the pension switch and scheme  investment.  It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done,  but I am satisfied that what  I have  set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given his circumstances at the time of advice.
Mr M is expected to engage meaningfully  and co-operatively with IFAL to provide it with all 
information and documentation relevant to and required for its calculation of redress.
What must IFAL do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, IFAL  must  do the following:
Compare the performance  of Mr Ms SIPP with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference  must be paid 
to him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
IFAL is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income tax from the 
interest, it must  tell Mr M the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan,  to increase  its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation should  not be 
paid into his pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income,  so the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional  
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic  rate of 
Ref: DRN65858228tax. If he would  have  been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Mr M had Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) with his RL pension  and this must be 
reflected by IFAL in the redress  to him, by seeking the current annuity rate which  
can be obtainable  now for an annuity  for an annuity on the same terms as the 
GAR provides.
IFAL must also redress  the additional  borrowing  (and the interest/associated costs 
of borrowing) Mr M incurred, which he would have avoided with suitable advice.
Pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused  to him. I agree with the 
investigators proposal in this respect.
Repay the advisers  fees Mr M incurred, plus simple interest at the rate of 
8% a year on that repayment, from the date the fees were paid to the date of 
settlement. If the redress comparison  shows that no compensation is 
payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value can be 
offset against the fees with interest.  
[This provision applies only if Mr M paid the fees directly; if the payment  was 
taken from his pension  it should form part of the benchmark-based redress.]
Any amounts  which  Mr M has received back from the scheme operator in 
relation to his scheme investment and any rental income he has received  
from his investment in the scheme  must be deducted from the total 
redress/compensation amount due to him from IFAL.
If theres a problem closing the SIPP, as can happen, it will be necessary for 
IFAL to cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent  on whether (or not) 
Mr M chooses to keep it operating. 
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr M in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Ms
Rowanmoor 
SIPPstill 
existsFTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index 
(prior to 1 
March  2017, 
the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market 
Income Total 
Return 
Index)date of 
switch to the 
Rowanmoor 
SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Ref: DRN65858229actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s)  of it) is illiquid  the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to IFAL  taking 
ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes  to. If that is not possible then 
IFAL may request an undertaking from Mr M  to be drawn  up at IFALs  expense  that he 
repays to IFAL any amount he may receive  from the investment (or its illiquid part(s)) in 
future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted  from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation  
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if IFAL totals all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end 
instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr M appears  to have had a balanced investor  profile  based on the evidence  
addressed above  so he would have been prepared  to take some risk in order to 
achieve a higher  return.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Ms profile is broadly reflected in this benchmark and that 
compensation based upon it would reasonably reflect the sort of return he could have 
obtained, but for the unsuitable advice he received, from suitable investments.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
Ref: DRN658582210my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order  Insight Financial Associates 
Limited to compensate him as set out above  and to provide him with the calculation  of 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6585822