K822xComplaint
Mrs H has complained TSB Bank plc unfairly  recorded late payment  markers against her 
credit file.
Background 
Mrs Hs payment plan to repay her outstanding overdraft expired in December 2017.  Mrs H 
called TSB in January 2018 to re-negotiate a new plan. She explained a change in 
circumstances meant  she wanted  to reduce  the monthly amount.
TSB said they were  unable to arrange a new payment plan and offered Mrs H alternative 
options, all of which would impact her credit  file. Mrs H wanted to avoid this and it was 
agreed TSB would place  the account on hold while Mrs H worked  out how much she could  
afford to pay. 
Mrs H had a number of conversations  with TSB over the next few months attempting  to 
arrange a new payment  plan, whilst  continuing to pay £50 towards the existing overdraft. As 
a new formal plan wasnt in place, TSB recorded  a late payment against  Mrs Hs credit  file 
for each  month the full balance  of the overdraft wasnt paid. Mrs H was unaware that TSB 
were recording  these  markers.
In May 2018, Mrs H and TSB agreed  a new payment plan for £100 a month. Mrs H has 
since applied for a mortgage where  she was told there were late payment markers  on her 
credit file. Mrs H believes  these  payment  markers  meant shes  had to accept a mortgage at 
a higher rate of interest, leaving her financially worse off.
TSB said they recorded the late payments fairly as a new payment  plan hadnt  been agreed. 
So, they wouldnt remove them from Mrs Hs credit file. Mrs H was unhappy with this 
response so she referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint  and upheld  it. They  thought TSB could have 
done more to assist Mrs H by exploring  a payment plan when she first contacted them  in 
January. They thought  if TSB had, this wouldve prevented the need to register late payment 
markers. So they recommended TSB should  remove them from Mrs Hs credit  file. Mrs H 
agreed.
TSB disagreed. They said they offered a new payment plan when Mrs Hs circumstances 
changed and she was able to offer a larger  payment.  As this wasnt  the case  in January, 
they felt they acted  fairly. As TSB disagreed  with our investigators view, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ref: DRN60068302When a customer makes  a business  aware theyre in financial difficulty, Id expect the 
business to take positive  steps to find a reasonable solution. Id also expect them to be 
sympathetic to the customers  individual situation.  So, Ive considered whether TSBs actions 
fall within  this expectation. Ive also considered whether TSB have communicated all the 
options available to Mrs H effectively and the impact this had.
Ive seen the collection notes detailing Mrs Hs conversation with TSB in January  2018. 
Unfortunately, the call recordings werent available so Ive relied upon the notes and Mrs H 
recollections when  considering what was discussed. Mrs H made  TSB aware she needed  to 
arrange a new payment  plan and that her income had reduced, although it was due to rise 
again later in the year. From what Ive seen, TSB explained they couldnt offer a payment 
plan as she had already  been in an arrangement for 12 months. 
However, Ive seen five months later, TSB arranged  a new payment plan. TSB say a new 
plan was arranged  as Mrs H was able to increase the amount she could pay. Im mindful that 
TSBs ability to offer a plan would also have  been  impacted by Mrs Hs reduction in income 
meaning another plan may have  been unaffordable in January. But, I dont think TSB 
explained the consequences of not having a plan in place to Mrs H. Although  they explained 
the account would be put on hold, this was an internal hold and didnt affect  reporting  to Mrs 
Hs credit  file. I dont think she understood this is what  a hold meant  and this should have 
been made clearer.
Mrs H was clear  in explaining to TSB that she didnt  want  to negatively impact  her credit file. 
During the five months Mrs H was without a payment plan, she continued to pay the amount 
agreed in her previous arrangement. I think its reasonable to assume Mrs H made  these 
payments thinking  it would prevent  any action  being taken regarding credit  file. So, I think its 
likely she wasnt  made aware  that her credit file would be impacted because she was no 
longer under  a repayment plan.
Because of this, I dont think it was fair for TSB to have added late payment markers to Mrs 
Hs credit  file at this time and so these should be removed.
But, TSB had accepted  a monthly  payment of £50 for the previous 12 months and had 
frozen the interest  and charges to Mrs Hs account  for the previous two years.  Im mindful 
that TSB were under no obligation to continue to offer a payment plan and had taken 
positive steps  up until this point.
So, I think theyve taken  positive steps  to help Mrs Hs situation  for a significant period  of 
time. Theyve also agreed to another payment plan which Mrs H was happy to enter  into. So, 
I dont think TSB need to do anything further in addition  to the credit file being  amended.
Mrs H also believes  that the markers noted by TSB prevented her from securing a lower 
interest rate mortgage, leaving her financially worse off. I havent seen any evidence  that 
specifically links the late payment markers  from TSB to the failed mortgage offer. 
The explanation Mrs H has provided from the lender who retracted the mortgage gives  a 
number of reasons  as to why the offer was declined. This includes where  they see an 
account has gone into arrears. Even if TSB hadnt recorded the late payment markers, 
Mrs Hs account would  still have  been reported as in arrears. 
For this reason, Im unable to agree that TSBs actions have led to the retracted offer and 
the financial loss Mrs H believes she suffered.
Ref: DRN60068303My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. TSB Bank plc must remove 
the late payment  markers noted between  February  April 2018  from Mrs Hs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6006830