K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Alliance Trust  Savings  Limited delayed the transfer of his Self-Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP).
background
On 4 July 2017 Mr S completed the paperwork to open an ATS SIPP and for his existing 
pension to be transferred.  The transfer  was finally completed in February 2018. I wont set 
out the chronology in detail as that that has been done in the adjudicators opinion issued in 
November 2018.
Mr S complained and ATS apologised for its part in any delays and offered him £150 
compensation. He remained  dissatisfied  and brought his complaint to this service  where  it 
was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended  the compensation be 
increased to £450.
He noted there were  a number of parties engaged in the transfer, ATS, Mr S, his adviser, the 
preceding pension provider, which I will call H and a subsidiary  of ATS I will call S, which 
was used to hold certain pension assets.  He took account of the fact that Mr S and his 
adviser had spent a significant amount of time in dealing  with the transfer.  
The adjudicator noted ATS had the initial  information it needed in early  August 2017, but 
didnt act on it until 6 September 2017  following an email from the adviser. He didnt consider 
the delay was the result of ATS not receiving  the information and he concluded  the delay of 
some four weeks was the responsibility of ATS..
He noted ATS gave  the adviser an update  suggesting most trades could be settled within a 
week and a couple might  take up to a month. He thought that was unduly optimistic  even if 
the bulk of the transfer was made in October.
The adviser first complained to ATS on 18 October 2017. The transfer  of the remaining 
assets was then delayed. It appeared that S needed further information to allow it to 
complete the re-registration process.  The adjudicator thought  the records  showed there was 
a breakdown in communication between  ATS and S.. It seems  ATS didnt chase matters up 
despite it being aware of Mr Ss concerns.
There followed a series  of missed opportunities to finalise the transfer leading to the 
additional delay.  The adjudicator thought it was possible that S had sufficient information to 
have expedited  matters and he didnt think that ATS had pursued the transfer  with suitable 
vigour. He felt that no individual or business  was driving the transfer and some actions 
seemed to have  fallen  through  the cracks. 
He concluded  that the transfer could have  been  competed in mid October, but having looked  
at stock values he didnt believe Mr S had lost out financially. However, he didnt think ATS 
had handled  the transfer as well as it should  have  and recommended  it pay £450 
compensation. Mr S accepted this though he felt it was at the lower end of the scale. ATS 
felt it was higher  than other awards this service had made and suggested it pay £300.
Ref: DRN66673152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that ATS was encountering significant  demand which had an impact  on the level 
of service it could offer.  However, I see that in September it set out timescales which  it failed 
to meet.  I suspect some of Mr Ss annoyance sprang from the expectations given by ATS 
not being met. I can see that ATS staff were intending to be helpful,  but I fear they simply 
raised expectations unrealistically.  
I note that the bulk of the transfer  was completed  in October 2017,  but it seems  that there 
was no drive to ensure  the remaining assets were transferred without  delay. I can see that 
with a number  of parties involved in the transfer  that nobody seems to have taken charge. I 
believe that once  ATS was instructed  to effect  the transfer it should have overseen the 
process and chased  others where  necessary.  
It is regrettable that even as the transfer was reaching its conclusion  there were further 
delays. For example I note an email  in late April from ATS which  says:  All matters are still In 
hand and work In progress at the moment.  We have had to involve  IT resources to find a 
quick resolution to the matter of converting the uncrystalllsed account to crystallised.
The adjudicator has set out with great  clarity not only the calendar of events but the reasons 
why compensation  of £450 is appropriate. In short, I would  say that I agree with his 
conclusion. There was more than one delay and some  of the delays took place after a 
complaint had been made. The business should have been aware of the need to expedite 
matters, but it didnt do so. It also gave  Mr S false expectations and this only served to 
compound the impact  of the delays.
In response to ATSs increased  offer Mr S pointed out that his and his advisers hours spent 
on this matter could  be charged out at some £4,500. We do not as a rule compensate 
people for the time they take pursuing complaint.  Therefore,  I believe it appropriate to leave  
the compensation at £450.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Alliance Trust Savings Limited to 
pay Mr S £450 compensation for the trouble and upset he has suffered. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667315