K820x#14complaint
Mr G says MBNA Limited mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr G took out a credit card in 2001 and bought  PPI a few weeks  later during a phone call 
with MBNA.
Among other  things, Mr G says MBNA didnt tell him he had a choice about PPI and didnt 
explain the policy details  adequately. He says he was pressured into buying a product he 
didnt need.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Gs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr G disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely MBNA  made Mr G aware he had a choice  about buying PPI and he agreed 
to it. I say this because MBNA says the policy was taken  out over the phone  after Mr G had 
got his credit card. And it seems the sales  call was only to do with PPI, so I think Mr G 
wouldve known he was buying PPI. Also, MBNA has sent us a call script  that it says was in 
use at the time for the sale of PPI. I think this script is likely to be representative of the call 
Mr G had with MBNA. It required the salesperson to get a customers  consent  and make it 
clear the policy  was optional. I havent  seen anything to make  me think MBNA  didnt follow 
this sales process for Mr Gs sale.
Mr G says he was pressured into buying the cover. But he hasnt given us any details about 
how this happened. What  Mr G says on its own isnt enough to make  me think  its likely 
MBNA applied unfair pressure on him.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Mr Gs complaint but I 
dont think there are. From what Ive seen  from the sales script,  MBNA didnt give Mr G a 
tailored recommendation to buy the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to give him enough  clear  and fair information for Mr G to make that decision for 
himself.
The information MBNA gave Mr G about the PPI probably wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. I think its unlikely  to have explained  clearly the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr G seems to have  been eligible for it and he doesnt seem  to have been affected by any of 
these things. So I dont  think  knowing  more about  them wouldve stopped him going ahead 
with it.
Ref: DRN65746192I also dont think its likely  MBNA  properly explained what  the policy would cost, or what  it 
might pay out if Mr G made a claim.  Mr G says hed only have got statutory sick pay if he 
couldnt work because of sickness or an accident.  So, even though the policy  benefit was 
low, I think the PPI couldve been  useful  to Mr G. The accident and sickness benefit  
wouldve been paid out until he returned  to work,  or the original balance was cleared. And 
the unemployment benefit wouldve helped with his card repayments  for up to a year if he 
lost his job. So I cant say clearer information  about  its cost and benefits in particular 
wouldve stopped  Mr G buying it.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr G about  that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6574619