K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that Bank  of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax)  mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy in November 1996.  
Background
Mr and Mrs A bought the MPPI when they were both applying for a mortgage, but the MPPI  
only covered Mr A. The policy included cover  for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know theyd  bought  the policy, didnt need it and it wasnt  
suitable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Because  Mr and Mrs A disagrees, their  
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs A say they bought the policy during a meeting but they dont think Halifax made 
a recommendation  about taking out the policy. However, Halifax  says its treating the sale as 
if it had made a recommendation about the PPI. That means Halifax needed to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs As situation  and the information  it gave  them about 
the policy was clear and not misleading. 
Unfortunately, most of the sale documentation  is no longer available.  So in reaching my 
decision, Ive had to rely on the paperwork Ive seen plus what  I already know  about  
Halifaxs sales process for this type of policy at the time. I think  its also important to 
recognise that Mr and Mrs As recollection  of events are from almost 23 years ago. So its 
quite possible they will have been  affected by the passage of time.
Ive seen some screenshot information  from Halifax about the sale to show that Mr A 
answered several questions aimed at checking  he was eligible to apply for the PPI. That 
makes me think its likely a discussion about MPPI took place during the meeting  and so 
Mr and Mrs A ought to have been aware they were buying PPI cover   and that they didnt  
have to buy it if they didnt want it. 
It looks as if Mr A was eligible for the policy. And I havent seen anything  to make me think 
he was affected  by any of the main limitations which are usually found in this type of policy.  If 
Mr A had made a successful claim for accident or sickness, or if he was out of work, the 
policy would pay out for up to 12 months. Mr A told us he was self-employed  at the time. But 
having checked the policy, I dont  think it would have been more  difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim  because  of this.
Ref: DRN61019502As I havent  seen all the paperwork, I cant say that Mr and Mrs A were  given details of the 
monthly cost of the policy  which was £14.94  at the time of the sale. Halifax says that 
Mr and Mrs A were  given this information. But on the basis that the policy  was suitable for 
Mr A, being  a useful  benefit that could  help protect the family home  at what  could be a 
difficult time financially, I think the policy would have been  useful  to have. 
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold, including giving  the cost details. But, having  looked at the sale carefully,  I think  
Mr and Mrs A would still have decided to buy the policy if theyd been better advised  and 
informed
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6101950