K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society Limited.  Shes 
unhappy that her regular  annuity payments are paid by cheque and slow to reach her. She 
lives in Australia. She thinks that Royal London  should be able to make the payments 
directly into her bank account  rather than sending cheques.
background
Mrs F is unhappy  that Royal London  doesnt  pay her annuity  directly into her Australian Bank 
account. She says that even when the cheques are received,  she must wait 31 days  for 
them to clear.
Royal London says that its systems dont allow automated payments to overseas accounts 
and the cost of changing  this is prohibitive.  Its suggested  that Mrs F set up a UK bank 
account or utilise a currency exchange  account.
The complaint was considered by an investigator  at this service,  but he didnt think that it 
should be upheld.  Mrs F didnt agree and has asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the delays in receiving her regular pension payments will be a source of 
frustration for Mrs F. However, Im not satisfied that Royal London has done anything  wrong 
and can be held responsible for those delays.
Firstly, its unfortunate that it takes 31 days for Mrs F's Australian bank to clear  a cheque 
denominated in a foreign currency and issued by a UK bank, but this is entirely outside of 
Royal London's control. I think  Mrs F accepts that, but I can see that this will only add to her 
sense of frustration.
Mrs F says that there is, on average, three  weeks between the date a letter  is sent to her 
with a cheque  and the date of it being  received by her. Royal London says that it uses first 
class air mail and there is no evidence to the contrary. Its also been  suggested  that there 
must be some delay in issuing the cheques, but there is no evidence of that.
Royal London says that it prints  the cheques five days before the due date and cannot print 
them any earlier  than this. Mrs F does  question this, but Royal  London has provided  records 
dating back to 2007 which include the number for each cheque and the day it was printed. 
These records appear to tally with some letters and paying-in slips Mrs F has provided to us 
including a letter dated 14 September 2017 for the annuity payment due on 23 September 
2017. The cheque  numbers from the paying-in slips match Royal  Londons records.  I 
appreciate this is a small sample, but this evidence appears to support what  Royal  Londons 
records suggest.
Im satisfied that the cause of delay is the time taken by postage rather  than any delay by 
Royal London in producing an sending  the cheques. Royal  London isnt responsible for the 
postal delay.
Ref: DRN65005872Mrs F doesnt understand why Royal London  are unable to make  the annuity payments 
directly to her bank account in Australia, she points to the fact that her husband is able to 
receive payments  in that way from another  UK provider. But as noted by the adjudicator, this 
is a commercial decision taken by Royal London  and if its decided  that the costs of setting 
up a facility for regular  overseas payment are too great, then this service  cant  insist  that it 
take on that cost.  This service isnt the industry  regulator and there is no regulatory 
obligation that Royal London must make its payments  in a different way.
Royal London has suggested alternative payment methods to Mrs F, such  as opening  a UK 
bank account  or using  a foreign payment  service, but these were rejected by her on the 
grounds of cost. I cant really comment on that or whether these are viable alternatives,  
ultimately, Im not satisfied that Royal London has done anything wrong so that I should 
uphold this complaint.  The long delays  are not the fault of Royal London.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2021.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6500587