K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that damage  was caused  to her home because of a delay in making repairs 
by British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI).
background
Mrs S said she rang BGI in November 2017 because  shed had a leak in her kitchen 
overnight. She had spoken  to BGI that morning, and it had told her an engineer  would come 
out to her house  the same day, but no one turned up. She rang in the evening, and BGI said 
that there  had been a mistake. No one had been booked to attend. Mrs S made  a new 
booking for the afternoon of the next day. 
Mrs S said that the leak got very considerably  worse  during that time. So she said that this 
delay caused  water damage  in her kitchen. She has sent us pictures  of the water  damage. 
She said BGI had told her to just claim on her home  insurance, but she didnt think  she 
should have to do that, and see her home insurance  premiums  go up as a result.  And when 
she spoke to her insurer, it had told her that the damage was avoidable, so it wouldnt pay. 
She wanted BGI to pay.
BGI said that Mrs S had contacted it to say that shed discovered a water leak in her kitchen, 
which had left a big puddle overnight. It had agreed  to send someone out that day, but it 
accepted that its agent had made a mistake, and no one was sent out. It was sorry about 
that. It said that it had offered to send someone  out that night, but that wasnt convenient  for 
Mrs S. She had to go to work  the next day. So it arranged for someone to attend the next 
afternoon. The leak was fixed then.  
BGI said that it had paid Mrs S £130  for the delays in fixing  the leak, and delays in arranging  
an appointment for an unrelated issue. But it wouldnt pay for repairs  to the water  damage in 
her kitchen. It said that her insurance doesnt  include  repairing or replacing any damage  
thats normally covered  by household  insurance. And it said that this damage  had been 
caused by the water  leak. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that BGI had made a mistake, and he 
accepted that the delay wouldve contributed to the damage to Mrs Ss kitchen fittings. But 
he said that her policy excluded damage  caused  by water leaks.  And it didnt cover  any 
damage caused by flooding,  or thats normally covered by household insurance.  He said that 
to ask BGI to pay, hed have to be satisfied that the damage wouldnt usually be covered by 
household insurance, and that the damage was caused directly by BGI. He said that a leak 
would usually be covered by household insurance, and he thought  that even if the delay  had 
made things  worse, some damage  wouldve been caused in any case. He couldnt say that 
there wouldnt have  been any damage  if it hadnt been for what BGI did. 
Our investigator said that BGI had already  offered to pay Mrs S £130, and he thought that 
was the right amount to make up for what had gone  wrong in this case. 
Mrs S didnt agree with that. She said that our investigator had focussed  on the claim rather  
than the initial error  and the damage caused.  She didnt think  the damage  wouldve been 
caused if BGI had come  out when it said it would.  
Our investigator explained that he had considered that there  may have  been  less damage if 
BGI had turned  up when it said. But he said that the problem was that there was no way to 
Ref: DRN68695142tell what damage would still have occurred if not for the delays, so he wouldnt be able to ask 
BGI to refund the difference. He still thought  that this damage ought to be covered by normal 
household insurance. 
Mrs S said that shes been told water  will cause damage very quickly, within two or three 
hours. And her household insurance company had said that it sounds  like the damage  was 
caused by error so it wouldnt cover it. 
Our investigator asked  BGI some more  questions,  about when an engineer might have 
attended if no mistake had been made. BGI said that it might not have been until the evening  
anyway. And it had offered to attend overnight, but Mrs S didnt want that. Our investigator  
said that BGIs offered visit still fell within 24 hours of Mrs Ss initial  call. And what Mrs S had 
been offered also fell within BGIs normal service standards,  so he couldnt ask it to pay any 
more. 
Mrs S said that she hadnt had a reissued cheque that our investigator said would be sent to 
her. And she didnt  agree with our investigators  view, so this case was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mrs S had home emergency  insurance with BGI that covers her for repairs  to leaks  in 
her home. BGI hasnt suggested that it wasnt responsible for repairing the leak that 
Mrs S reported to it.
-I listened to the call that Mrs S made to report this leak. She was told on that call that 
someone would attend the same day. We knew that didnt happen. When  she rang to 
find out why an engineer hadnt turned up, BGI realised its mistake and offered an 
emergency appointment in the small hours of the next morning. Mrs S wasnt able to 
accept that, and an engineer came in the afternoon  of the next day. 
-Mrs Ss insurance with BGI didnt cover her for any damage that a leak might cause. But 
Mrs S asked  us to consider the delay. She said things got worse over this time.
-I said I would  tend to agree with our investigator, that it was likely that the damage did 
get a little worse during this time. But Mrs S herself told us that she understands water 
damage happens quickly,  with most of the damage  being done in the first two or three 
hours. I said that was my understanding too. And I noted that this leak happened 
overnight. There was already a puddle  when Mrs S woke  up, before she ever contacted 
BGI. So I thought it was likely that the majority of the damage had already been done at 
this point. And, like our investigator, I didnt think  it was going to be possible to separate  
out any modest additional amount  of damage  done after Mrs S rang BGI, from damage 
which had already  been done before. 
-For those reasons, I didnt think BGI had to pay towards the repairs  in Mrs Ss kitchen. 
-BGI sent Mrs S £130 in compensation. (I understood that she didnt cash that first 
cheque, but it had since been reissued and cashed.) Some of that money  was paid for a 
different issue, not the subject of this case.  £30 was for BGIs delay in responding to her 
Ref: DRN68695143complaint. So, if we identified payments made for this leak,  they added up to £70. I 
understood that £50 was paid for the missed  appointment, and £20 was for poor 
customer service.  
-The payment  for poor customer service was made because  BGI didnt advise Mrs S 
when it first spoke to her, to turn off the water in her home.  
-As I noted, I had listened to the call. If Mrs S had been told to turn off the water, she 
wouldnt have spent  much of that day, and the following day, mopping  up. And it was 
possible that some of the water damage might  have been avoided.  
-For the same reasons  as set out above, I didnt  think that BGI had to pay towards the 
repairs in Mrs Ss kitchen because it didnt advise her to turn off the water. Again, I didnt 
think it was going to be possible to separate out any modest additional amount of 
damage done after Mrs S rang BGI, from the majority of the damage which  I thought had 
already been done before. 
-But I did think that BGI should  pay Mrs S a bit more compensation in this case. I thought  
that a total payment of £150  would be a reasonable amount  of compensation to pay for 
the additional and avoidable inconvenience  that Mrs S was subject to. So I said I would 
ask BGI to pay an additional  £80 now. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs S replied, BGI didnt respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs S said that she was going to accept my recommendations. But she still wanted  it to be 
recorded that the leak was not very much on discovery, and was made a lot worse because  
of the delay. She said that if someone had come out sooner her kitchen  would not have 
sustained the damage that occurred. She said that water does cause damage,  but that is 
made a lot worse  when  left unattended for long periods of time. She said that the major 
damage was caused in the late evening, when the water started to pour out, and she tried to 
mop it up when it was running  down  the cupboards.
Mrs S also said that she was offered an appointment for the early hours of the morning by 
BGI, which would have meant being  up for 48 hours  if it had been accepted.
Ive considered this additional information,  but it remains  my view that most  of the damage 
done by a water leak is done in the early stages of the leak,  and this leak first occurred 
overnight, before it was discovered the next morning. I still think most of the damage was 
likely to have been done then.
I also think that, if, as Mrs S says, the leak did get markedly  worse  in the late evening,  then I 
would have to take into account  that BGI had offered Mrs S an overnight,  emergency  
appointment. I appreciate that this wouldve meant  a night of interrupted sleep for Mrs S, and 
that she has a demanding job which means that this could have a significant impact  on her, 
so I understand  why she didnt take up that offer. But I think it would be unfair for me not to 
give BGI credit for making the offer.
Ref: DRN68695144Having weighed up all of this evidence, I still think that a total payment  of £150 in 
compensation is the right amount to resolve this complaint. Ill now make that award.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs S £150  in total for this 
complaint. It can count towards that total the sum of £70, which  it has offered for service 
issues under  this complaint, if it has already paid that amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6869514