K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining that he was given misleading information when buying  a car which he 
says induced him to enter into a conditional  sale agreement  with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
background
In June 2016 Mr S went to a dealership (M) with the intention of acquiring  a specific  class of 
car. He was entitled  to an allowance from work to help finance the repayments. But he says,  
due to his credit rating at the time, he was unable  to get credit  from Ms main  finance 
provider. So he was referred to Moneybarn to arrange finance  for a less expensive car. Mr S 
says that M told him his credit rating would improve quickly if he took out this finance  
agreement and a separate credit card account. And he says he was advised  by the 
salesman to continually review his credit rating and to come back  when it improves. Mr S 
says the salesman advised that this would take around 6-12 months. He also says that the 
salesman advised  that hed only lose around  £1,000  on the car he was acquiring at the time.
Mr S then entered  into a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn  to acquire the car. The 
cash price for the car was around  £14,500.  Mr S says he only did so on the presumption that 
hed be able to end the finance within 12 months.  
In January 2017 Mr S contacted M again to take out a new finance agreement, but he was 
offered only £10,250  for the car  meaning he would have to pay around £4,000 to clear  the 
finance. He asked to speak to the original  salesman,  but he was told that he didnt work for 
M any longer. Mr S complained about his losses. A manager offered to pay Mr S £14,500 for 
the car and to source a replacement car for him of the model he was seeking. Mr S said he 
was willing  to accept  this as a resolution,  but he was subsequently declined  for the finance. 
So he continued with the finance he had. But hes unhappy as he thinks  hes lost out as a 
result.
Mr S initially  complained to M that it had misled him when he took out the finance. He said 
he wouldnt  have taken  the finance  out had he not been given misleading  information. He 
said he only received  an allowance  from his work for cars that were  less than six years old. 
The car he acquired was around four years old so he said he wouldnt have acquired  it, had 
he not been told hed be able to change it within a year.
M didnt uphold  Mr Ss complaint so he referred  that complaint  to this service. An 
ombudsman issued a decision  saying that she couldnt consider Mr Ss complaint about 
whether M misled Mr S about  the car itself, including the value he may get if he traded it in 
within 12 months. She said she could look at whether it misled  Mr S into entering into the 
credit agreement. But she didnt think M would have guaranteed that Mr S would be able to 
get a better agreement  if his credit agreement improved over the year.
Mr S then complained to Moneybarn holding it responsible for Ms actions as a credit broker. 
Moneybarn didnt uphold  the complaint as it said that a car will naturally depreciate  over 
time. And it said the level of depreciation cant be predicted as it will be determined by a 
number of factors. And it said that the cars value was in line with its market  value.  It also 
said that, generally speaking, it wouldnt be possible to guarantee further finance as any 
application would also be subject to numerous  variables that could impact the outcome.
Ref: DRN67050632Mr S then referred his complaint about Moneybarn to this service.  Since  then hes also 
provided an email from the salesman who sold him the car. Mr S says this email shows  the 
salesman gave misleading information  because he was told to do so by his managers.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to dismiss  Mr Ss complaint about  the 
likelihood of being approved for finance. I said I thought we should consider his complaint 
that he says he was told hed only lose around £1,000, but I said I didnt intend to uphold it. 
And I said the following:
There are two keys issues for me to consider in this complaint:
1.Mr S says he was told hed be able to refinance  the agreement  when his credit 
agreement improved  in around seven months  to get the car he wanted; and
2.He was told the car would only lose around  £1,000 in value.
I shall deal with each  point separately:
Mr S was told hed be able to refinance  the agreement
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) written  by the FCA in 
accordance with the powers it derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA Handbook.
The DISP  rules also set out what complaints this service should and shouldnt  look at. And 
DISP 3.3.4A  says that I can dismiss a complaint without considering its merits in certain 
circumstances. DISP  3.3.4B(3) says that one of those  circumstances  is where the subject 
matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded under the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which  the Ombudsman considers  likely 
to affect the outcome has subsequently  become available to the complainant).
Im satisfied that this service has already considered  the subject matter of Mr Ss complaint  
that M gave him misleading information about  whether  hed be able to refinance within 12 
months. While  I acknowledge Mr S doesnt agree with what the ombudsman has said, Im 
satisfied that her decision considered the same  subject  matter of so it would be inappropriate 
for me to investigate  those issues again. This is because to do so would seriously  impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman  Service. 
Ive thought about whether Mr S has provided us with material  new evidence which is likely 
to affect the outcome. And, in particular, Ive considered the email hes provided  from the 
salesman. In this, the salesman said that he was following the instructions of the Business 
manager at the time. I note Mr S says that this suggests he was deliberately  misled  by 
senior management at M. But I dont think that theres anything in there to suggest that the 
salesman did give Mr S false information  about a future credit application. And Im not 
persuaded that theres anything specifically  definitive in the content of the email  to make me 
think it would  likely  affect the outcome of the complaint.
So, given this, I think it would be inappropriate for us to consider this aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint again.  Our rules entitle me to dismiss this aspect  of Mr Ss complaint in these 
circumstances. And I intend to do so.
Mr S was told that hed only lose around  £1,000
Ref: DRN67050633S56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  says that in certain situations any statements M made 
may be deemed to have  been made in the capacity as Moneybarns agent. So Moneybarn 
could be held responsible for any misleading or incorrect statements M made.
Mr S has suggested that he was told that if he returned to M and took out a new finance 
agreement to acquire  a car through M, then hed only lose around  £1,000.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said and, on balance, Im persuaded that he was likely to 
have been told that hed only lose around  £1,000 if he took out a new finance agreement  
through M within 12 months. I think hes been  consistent throughout  on this point and I think  
his actions do support  this. However, I dont think this was a false statement of fact. While I 
dont dispute that the car lost more than £1,000 in value, I can see that M offered to pay off 
his outstanding finance, by paying  Mr S around  £3,000 more than the car was actually worth.  
So it offered  to do what he says he was told would  happen.
In reality, the reason Mr S may be more than £1,000 out of pocket is because Mr S wasnt 
able to refinance, not because he was told in respect to the cars  value. And, as I set out 
above, weve already issued  a decision on this issue, so Im not considering it again in this 
decision. So I dont  think Moneybarn needs to compensate Mr S for the information he was 
given in respect to the cars  value.
Moneybarn responded to say that there wasnt anything to show  what was discussed  in this 
matter. It said that the car would only ever have been taken back  at trade price or for the 
purchaser to make a profit  when subsequently selling on the vehicle again. It said that this is 
standard practice across the motor trade  and it thought a lay person should reasonably  be 
expected to be aware of this. It also said that it would  be reasonable to expect the car to 
devalue as time had passed.
Moneybarn further  said that it understood that we wouldnt question Mr Ss version  of events 
in recalling the content of a conversation that took place some months earlier. But it 
questioned the decision to accept  this information as fact.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision either.  He said that I hadnt made any reference  
to the manager offering him a replacement car at cost price,  but he was later told hed have 
to pay full price for it. He also reiterated why he disagreed  with the decision the ombudsman  
reached on the previous case.  He maintains  that the ombudsman  didnt look at all the 
evidence when reviewing  the previous case.
Mr S was unhappy that I said I didnt think there  was anything specifically definitive in the 
content of the email  to make me think it would likely affect the outcome of the complaint. And 
he queried how I could  know  that. He said no one has investigated this evidence  other  than 
just reading the email.  And he queried why we didnt contact the salesman to discuss  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything both parties have said into account. But I dont think either party  has 
provided anything  new. So Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional  
decision.
Ref: DRN67050634I acknowledge Moneybarn has said that there  wasnt  anything  to show what was discussed  
in this matter. But this service will always look at whats most likely to have happened.  And 
Im satisfied that my provisional decision sets out why Im persuaded that its likely Mr S was 
told that hed only lose around £1,000 if he took out a new finance agreement  through  M 
within 12 months.
I appreciate that Mr S strongly disagrees with the decision the ombudsman reached  in his 
previous complaint. But I think its inappropriate for this service to investigate  the subject  
matter of a complaint that weve already considered previously. I note Mr Ss comments  that 
he doesnt think we considered all the evidence previously. But we have  previously 
considered his complaint about  the likelihood of being approved for finance.
As I said,  we may sometimes choose to look at the complaint again if material  new evidence  
subsequently becomes  available  to the complainant and I think  its likely to affect the 
outcome of the complaint.  But, the only new evidence is an email  from the salesman and Im 
not persuaded it demonstrates what Mr S says it does. I appreciate  Mr S is unhappy we 
havent contacted the salesman directly. But, as I said, we have already issued a decision on 
this subject matter, which  is the end of the process.  So it wouldnt be appropriate  to 
investigate this any further. 
In this decision I have  to think about whether Mr S has provided any new evidence  which  is 
likely to change the outcome.  And I dont think theres anything in the email that hes 
provided thats likely to change the outcome of the previous complaint.
Finally, I note Mr S has said that I havent commented on whether the manager offering him 
a replacement car at cost price, but he was later told hed have to pay full price for it was fair. 
I note Mr Ss comments in this respect,  but I dont  think he was given misleading information. 
I agree  that he was told that hed have  to pay the full asking price for the replacement car. 
But, as I said in my provisional decision, he was also told that the dealership offered £3,250 
more than the trade in value for his car to offset this. So I think he was effectively being 
offered the replacement  car at cost price. And Im satisfied its likely the dealership  offered 
this increased trade in value to honour the mangers initial  offer.
In effect, Mr S would have  paid £3,250 less for the car than he would have had to pay in 
usual circumstances  had he been  approved for finance. So I dont think he was given 
misleading information in this respect. And, as I said in my provisional decision, I still think 
the reason Mr S may be more than £1,000 out of pocket is because  he wasnt  able to 
refinance, not because of what he was told in respect to the cars value.
Ref: DRN67050635my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dismiss Mr Ss complaint 
about the likelihood of being approved for finance. And I dont uphold his complaint  that he 
says he was told hed only lose around £1,000 on the car Moneybarn No. 1 Limited provided 
him if he ended  the agreement  early.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6705063