K820x#14complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about the amount of compensation  Bradford & Bingley Plc, offered 
following a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out by Ms D 
in 1992. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc got due to the PPI. I havent considered  how the policy  was sold 
because that complaint  point had previously been considered by our Service. Ive only 
looked at whether the offer Bradford & Bingley  Plc has made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did 
create an unfair relationship. So to put things right it offered  to refund the extra  Ms D paid 
each month  because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the 
cost of PPI for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple 
interest to compensate  Ms D for the time they were  out of pocket. 
Ms D has said she wasnt  told that Bradford & Bingley  Plc would receive  any commission.  
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc has done what the rules it must  follow  tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Ms Ds particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Bradford & Bingley Plc should do something different to put right 
the unfairness caused by not telling  them  about the amount of commission  and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Bradford & Bingley Plc to do anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Bradford & Bingley Plc has correctly worked out what  it needs 
to pay Ms D. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should update and pay its offer to Ms D - if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Ref: DRN66124412Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6612441