K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited, (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
background 
Mr B was contacted by PV Solar UK Limited (PV Solar), a company that supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a meeting, Mr B agreed to enter  into a contract with 
PV Solar for it to supply  and install a solar panel  system costing about £6,750. To fund this 
Mr B also agreed to enter  into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF).
Mr B made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative.  The 
representative said that PV Solar had told Mr B that the solar panels would be self-funded  
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments  had been  much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  BPF said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented  to Mr B. Unhappy with the response, Mr B referred his complaint to our 
service.
Following our involvement BPF made  an offer of compensation  to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
It had worked out what it considered to be an estimate of the potential savings and income to 
Mr B from the solar  panels over the 10 year term of the loan. It had then reworked the loan 
so that he would pay no more than that over the 10 year term.
One of our investigators  looked into the offer put forward by BPF.  The felt the offer was fair 
and also recommended that BPF pay Mr B £100  to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
BPF accepted our investigators view.  Mr B, via his representative, didnt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that he was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels  
would be entirely  self-financing.  As neither BPF nor Mr B and his representative  dispute  that 
the benefits of the solar panels  were misrepresented,  this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
Ref: DRN69255962proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from Mr Bs home. Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome here is to put Mr B in a position where  the panels  are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing Mr B to keep the panels, I am satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
Mr Bs representative says that he was told that the loan repayments  would be covered by 
the FIT. So Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into account 
when arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr B was misled into thinking  that the solar  panels would be self-funding 
and so on that basis I need  to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that question,  I 
think its fair to take account of the electricity generated  by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Mr B has to pay his loan and for any electricity  used  in addition to that generated by 
the panels and on the other he can off-set those payments  by the FIT payments and the 
savings associated with the electricity generated  by the panels. It would be unfair to ignore 
the electricity generated and used by Mr B when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology BPF has submitted to this service  to calculate 
the total benefits of the solar system.  This methodology has been shared with Mr Bs 
representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr Bs solar panel system. 
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Bs solar 
panels it will use a number of assumptions. These  include  using a self-consumption  rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Bs solar  panels that he is expected 
to use rather than buying electricity from his energy  provider. An ombudsman who issued a 
previous final determination  considered that a 50% self-consumption rate was a fair 
assumption as this was the assumption  used  by Government. Following further  submissions,  
in a previous decision  I was satisfied that a self-consumption rate of 37% was reasonable.   
Mr Bs representative has said that the methodology being used to make the panels self-
funding is out of date. It has provided a joint statement from two industry experts to support 
this. In particular  the experts disagree  that a self-consumption rate of 37% should be used  in 
every case  and that a payment should be made  towards covering ongoing maintenance and 
repair costs.
Ill deal first with the self-consumption rate. Ive thought carefully about the points the 
representative has made as well as the expert  testimony provided. Ive taken into account 
that both experts  have  previously provided  reports to this service and have disagreed  on 
what they consider  to be a reasonable self-consumption rate. For example previously one 
expert has said 25% is reasonable while the other  has suggested that at the point of 
calculating redress a rate of 37-41%  was reasonable for a passive consumer but went on to 
say that using the Energy Trusts online calculator  which takes more account  of occupancy 
during the day a rate of 37% was reasonable.  
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period of time someone is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar  panel system is generating. 
And so Im not persuaded that I should  use the Governments 50% rate or the higher end of 
the passive consumer. It is self-evident  that determining an exact figure over the period of 
Ref: DRN69255963the loan is difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation  and arrive at an outcome that 
is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account all the available  
evidence discussed  above and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy 
habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, Im 
satisfied that it is highly likely that Mr B will continue to benefit from the system as a result of 
a reduction in his electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels and the 
FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
I turn now to consider on-going maintenance and repair costs. The joint statement I referred 
to above suggests that the inverter will need to be replaced at least twice over the lifetime  of 
the panels, at a cost of around  £1,050  each  time.
 
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer  could  have  some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panels  self-funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, 
as Ive already  outlined  above, Mr B is highly  likely  to enjoy significant benefit from the solar 
panel system by way of savings and the FIT income  going forward.  In addition, Mr B has the 
flexibility to be paid a lump sum to cover his overpayments together with interest. 
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mr B has the flexibility to be paid his compensation 
payment as a lump  sum to pay for a replacement inverter  if necessary.
Because of the reasons  Ive given above Im not persuaded that the business should  make 
an award for maintenance and repair costs.  
By making  the panels  self-funding, Mr Bs monthly repayments will reduce, meaning that he 
wouldve previously been paying more each  month.  And as he wouldve been deprived  of 
the monthly overpayment  I would  expect BPF to add 8% simple  interest  from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  In a case like this, I think  the fairest  resolution  would  
be to let Mr B have the following  selection of options  as to how he would like his 
overpayments to be used:
(a)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr B 
continues to make his current monthly  payment  resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b)the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new, lower  monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
Ref: DRN69255964(c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early,  or
(d)the overpayments are returned  to Mr B and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient  information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted BPF that means that his claim should  have been  upheld. The fact that this did not 
happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an award of 
£100 to cover this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  should:
(a)allow Mr B to keep the solar  panels,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr B from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Bs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d)allow Mr B to decide how hed like his overpayments  to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
(e)pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr B how much  itss taken  off. 
It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN6925596