K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the time it has taken The Society of Lloyds  to deal with a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
background
On 10 June 2018 Mr M made a claim on his policy following an engine  fire. An engineer  was 
instructed and the car was inspected  on 14 June. The engineers report was received by The 
Society of Lloyds on 18 June. A couple  of days later it asked  for more information to confirm 
if some  parts  were  included or excluded  in the repair costs. Throughout Mr M made The 
Society of Lloyds aware he needed car to get to work and said he was borrowing one for a 
short time before hiring one. 
Mr M says things  took too long and as it was known his car was repairable on 14 June 2018, 
The Society of Lloyds should have  given him a courtesy car from that point.
The Society of Lloyds said in its final response that it spoke to Mr M on 26 June  2018  and 
also contacted  the engineer that day to confirm it was in order  to authorise the repairs.  It had 
dealt with Mr Ms claim within  normal timescales.  There was however a small delay between 
it getting the engineers response on 22 June  2018 and it speaking to Mr M on 26 June. It 
wouldve expected  this contact to have  been  made at latest  on 25 June. It also apologised it 
hadnt called  Mr M back on two occasions  and said it was paying £25 compensation for this.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Under the terms of the policy Mr M wasnt entitled to a courtesy car until his car was 
being repaired. So, she cant agree he was entitled to one from 14 June 2018.
Its fair and reasonable to expect an engineers report to be sent within  a few days  
and to be authorised  within a few more days.  Here it took a time for the repairs  to be 
authorised. The engineer shouldve  provided  a report  that clearly highlighted the 
cause of the fire and the parts involved.  Had the engineer  done  so The Society  of 
Lloyds wouldnt have  had to ask for more information and the delay wouldnt have 
occurred. If the engineers report was correctly completed its likely the repairs  
wouldve been authorised and started  by 22 June 2018. And Mr M wouldve been 
entitled to a courtesy car sooner. 
Here Mr M kept calling The Society  of Lloyds and explained he couldnt commute 
without a car. He initially borrowed  a car, said he was going  to have to return  it and 
get a hire car so he could get to work.
As the inconclusive  engineers report caused  delays  to the repairs  being  authorised  
The Society of Lloyds should reimburse  Mr M for the cost of the hire car. The Society 
of Lloyds has reimbursed  the cost of recovering Mr Ms car and offered him £25 
compensation which is fair.
Ref: DRN61181222The Society of Lloyds didnt agree and said the policy terms and conditions actually say a 
courtesy car will be supplied whist the policyholders  car is being repaired subject to 
availability. The period  before repair doesnt  qualify for a courtesy car. A courtesy car also 
isnt an automatic entitlement even when  the car was being  repaired. And a hire car isnt a 
cost that is covered by the policy. A courtesy  car, if available, is provided by the repairer  
during the repairs.  Taking two weeks between the 14 and 28 June to deal with the claim is 
well below the industry average  and isnt an unnecessary delay. It shouldnt be penalised for 
this.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 4 February 2020. In summary, subject to 
any further evidence  and submissions from the parties, I was minded to uphold the 
complaint but I came  to a slightly  different conclusion to that reached by our investigator.  In 
summary taking everything  into account I felt on balance that I couldnt reasonably require 
The Society of Lloyds to cover the costs of Mr M obtaining a hire car at any time. But I 
thought it should pay him an additional £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused.
The Society of Lloyds doesnt think it should  have to pay any more compensation. It says 
there was only a short period between the inspection and the authorisation of the work. This 
wasnt out of line with what normally happens  in claims. It wasnt  its fault the vehicle caught 
fire and that is what distressed Mr M. The claim was resolved quickly and efficiently. Its not 
reasonable for it to have to pay more  compensation.
Mr M has confirmed  he hasnt anything more to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr M suggests The Society of Lloyds  should,  as a gesture of goodwill, cover his hire car 
costs from the 14 June 2018 when  the engineer inspected the car and said it should be 
repaired. But I dont  agree.
Mr Ms policy says a courtesy car will be provided, subject to availability, when the repairs 
are being  completed  to his car. It doesnt guarantee him a courtesy  car or say one will be 
provided before any repairs  start. The policy also doesnt provide a hire car at any time. 
Ref: DRN61181223I accept that Mr M made The Society of Lloyds  aware from the very start, and repeatedly 
after that, of his need for a car to commute to work.  But that doesnt change what it was 
obliged to provide him with under the terms of the policy. Even if The Society of Lloyds 
couldve acted more  quickly, whenever the repairs were authorised  or started, there was 
also never a guarantee a courtesy  car would  be available.  
If a replacement car was so important to Mr M he couldve mitigated his position  by taking 
out a policy  that guaranteed a hire car from the date of any accident. But he didnt.
Overall I dont think I can therefore reasonably require The Society  of Lloyds to cover the 
costs of Mr M obtaining a hire car at any time.
Mr M wasnt given  any specific guaranteed  time frames for various parts  of the claim being  
completed. He was told in a phone call that getting the engineers  report could take 24 to 48 
hours but he was also warned it may take longer. Having said that I think on balance  that 
there was short avoidable  delay as the engineers report  wasnt as clear  as it reasonably 
couldve been about what parts were affected by the fire. It was reasonable for The Society  
of Lloyds to seek  further clarity on this point. But when the engineer responded a few days 
later The Society of Lloyds also couldve dealt with things  more quickly  particularly given Mr 
Ms expressed need for a working car. It has accepted there was at least  a day or so of 
delay. And I also note that its notes suggest that some decisions in this claim were slightly  
delayed by members  of the claims team being away,  which  isnt Mr Ms fault.
Given that Mr M had made  it apparent from the very start that a car was essential to him for 
commuting to work I think The Society of Lloyds shouldve reasonably  ensured  all aspects 
of the claim were dealt  with as efficiently and promptly as possible. But on some occasions  I 
think it couldve been quicker and more efficient  in dealing with things. It has accepted it 
couldve acted more  quickly on a couple of occasions. Ive no doubt  this caused Mr M some 
additional distress  and inconvenience,  not least as he had to repeatedly  phone  to check  on 
progress and, as The Society of Lloyds  accepts, it didnt return a couple  of calls as 
promised.
I have noted everything  The Society  of Lloyds has said about all customers experiencing 
some distress and inconvenience when dealing  with a claim. Even so I think  in this case  I do 
think it should pay Mr M some compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused and towards  some of his call costs. The Society  of Lloyds accepts it 
couldve dealt with some  things better and has already paid him £25 for not returning two 
phone calls. But in this case Mr M made clear his need for a car for his commute to work and 
that wouldve  exacerbated his distress and inconvenience at what  happened when the claim 
couldve been dealt  with better  at times  and in some respects. 
As I have said above I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require The Society of Lloyds to 
meet Mr Ms hire car costs. But taking everything  into account, including  the level of awards 
we make,  I remain of the view that the amount of compensation should be increased  by an 
additional £75 to make  a total payment of £100.  
Ref: DRN61181224my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and to put things  right The Society of Lloyds should, if it hasnt done 
so already, pay Mr M a total of £100 compensation.
The Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr M accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest*  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires The Society of Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6118122