K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account  (Silver AVA) by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mrs S held a bank account with Lloyds from November 2005.  Her first account did not have 
a fee.
She took out a Select Added Value  Account in November 2006 which incurred a monthly 
fee.
Mrs S upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account in May 2007 which  also incurred a 
monthly fee.
She then downgraded to a Silver Added Value Account in February  2008  which  initially 
incurred a fee of £7.95  a month.
Lloyds has said that the Select and Platinum accounts were mis-sold  and paid Mrs S redress  
as a result. But Lloyds  has said that the Silver  AVA was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and decided that Lloyds response  was fair 
and reasonable.  Mrs S disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S says the Silver  AVA was mis-sold. In my view, I dont agree and Ill explain why.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs S was aware  she could have an account with no fee 
at any time as shed  had one without a fee previously, and they have always been openly  
available from many banks and financial institutions. 
In February 2008,  Mrs S says she was sold the Silver AVA because  she didnt understand 
what she was buying due to her poor English. She thought she was told she had to have  
one to get an overdraft or loan and she hasnt used the non financial benefits.  
I dont doubt her honest recollections, but I think she is mistaken.  I say this because  Lloyds  
has provided evidence  that she did use some of the non financial benefits (including making 
an insurance claim) soon  after taking out the Silver AVA. But she didnt use an overdraft or 
loan facility for many years after taking out the account.
So I think Mrs S knew  the Silver  AVA was optional and she chose to take out the Silver  AVA 
based on Lloyds  advice and information.
As Lloyds  advised  Mrs S to take out the Silver  AVA it needed to not only provide her with 
sufficient information  about the Silver  AVA to make an informed choice. It also needed to 
Ref: DRN66940812take adequate steps to ensure that the Silver AVA was a reasonable fit for Mrs Ss 
circumstances.
The Silver AVA contained a range of benefits including European  travel  insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance,  and sentinel card protection.
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mrs S but I think she would have 
been interested in and eligible for these benefits.  I say this because she did travel regularly 
to Europe, and the car breakdown cover benefited her even if she wasnt the driver or owner 
of the broken down car. Lloyds has also provided  evidence that a mobile phone was 
registered for insurance cover on several occasions,  and that Mrs S made a claim for 
damage to her phone  a few months after taking  out the Silver AVA.
Mrs S could also have closed the Silver  AVA at any time,  but she didnt for many years. And 
the fact that she didnt  use all the benefits was a matter of choice for her.
So in my view Lloyds  advice to Mrs S to take out the Silver  AVA was suitable.  And there 
was no information  that she didnt receive that would likely have put her off it. So I dont think 
Mrs S lost out by taking  out the Silver  AVA or through anything Lloyds may have done  
wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6694081