K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent money  to her that she couldnt  afford  to 
repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Uncle Buck provided Miss G with six payday  loans  
between September  2013  and August 2014.
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 18/09/2013 27/09/2013 £200.00
2 04/11/2013 29/11/2013 £100.00
3 09/12/2013 25/12/2013 £125.00
4 21/02/2014 28/02/2014 £125.00
5 01/03/2014 28/03/2014 £500.00
6 20/08/2014 27/11/2014 £250.00
Miss G says that at the time of the loans  she was in financial  difficulty. She says she was 
borrowing from other short-term lenders and taking out new loans to meet repayments on 
existing loans. She says that had adequate checks been carried  out Uncle  Buck would have 
realised that it was irresponsible lending to her. 
Uncle Buck  says before each loan was provided a credit check was carried out. This 
confirmed Miss Gs monthly income. It says Miss G was asked about her expenses  and 
based on the information provided the loans  were affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had seen enough  to say that loans one to four shouldnt  have 
been provided. But he thought that by loan five proportionate checks would most likely have 
shown Miss G was having problems managing  her money. Based on this he thought that 
loan five onwards  shouldnt  have  been lent.
In response to our adjudicators view, Uncle Buck noted that there was a gap between loans 
five and six which it considered was sufficient  time for Miss Gs finances to have changed. It 
also noted that loan six was for half the amount  of loan five. It did offer to refund the interest 
and charges on loan five. 
Miss G didnt  accept Uncle Bucks offer and so this case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss G could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
Ref: DRN64484342the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Most the loans in this case were provided  before CONC. At that time the relevant guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make  a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Our adjudicator said that he hadnt seen  enough  evidence to say that loans one to four 
shouldnt have been provided. I agree with this.
Before loan five was provided I think  it would have been reasonable for Uncle Buck to have 
carried out a thorough  review of Miss Gs finances to ensure the loan was sustainably  
affordable. Had this happened, Uncle Buck would have realised that Miss G was struggling 
to manage her money.  Uncle Buck has agreed  to refund the interest  and charges on this 
loan and I find this reasonable.
Ref: DRN64484343There was then a break  of around  five months  between when loan five was repaid  and loan 
six taken out. I note the comments  Uncle  Buck  has made in regard to this but given Miss Gs 
history I dont  think this gap was sufficient  for it to conclude that Miss Gs finances had 
moved on from whatever  situation had required her previous loans. Miss Gs situation hadnt 
changed significantly at the time of this loan and I think proportionate checks  would have 
shown this loan wasnt sustainably affordable.
Therefore I uphold this complaint in regard  to loans five and six. 
my final decision
My final decision that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP shouldn't have  given Miss G loans five and 
six. It should:
.
A.add together  the total of the repayments made  by Miss G towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans,  including  payments made  to a third party  where applicable, but 
not including  anything that has already been refunded.
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Miss G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss G originally made  the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.pay Miss G the total of "A" plus "B".
D.remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss G's credit  file in relation to loans five 
and six. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck Finance LLP to deduct tax from this interest. 
It should give Miss G a certificate  showing how much  tax it has deducted, if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6448434