K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Barclays  Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) has refused him a refund  
following a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which  related to the 
repair of his car.
background
In October  2017 a warning light appeared on Mr Ws car, which related to the suspension.  
Mr W says this only happened when  he was in the car with his phone.  He took it to a garage 
(which Ill call Garage A) for the fault to be investigated. 
On the first visit, Garage A couldnt  find a fault with the car. On the second  visit, Garage A 
emailed Mr W a video on 23 October 2017  describing the fault and the proposed  repair (a 
new driver  side rear dampening adjustment valve). Mr W says he clicked a link to authorise 
the repair, for which he paid over £1,700  using  his Barclaycard. Garage A says that following 
the repair the car was tested and no fault was found  so the repair  was successful.  
However, Mr W says the warning light came on again within  a couple  of weeks, and he 
returned the car to Garage A on 8 November 2017. A further diagnosis and repair (this time 
to replace a wiring loom)  was carried out for which Mr W wasnt charged.  Again, Garage A 
says that no fault was showing when  the car was tested following the repair   so it appeared 
to have resolved  the fault. 
Mr W is unhappy because the warning light came on again  a short time after this. So, he 
thinks Garage A failed  to adequately repair the car. 
Having lost faith in Garage A, Mr W took the car to another garage  (which Ill call Garage B) 
and paid about £70 for further work on 23 November 2017. The invoice for the work says it 
was to recalibrate the suspension  system. Mr W says Garage B told him this hadnt  been 
done following  the original repair by Garage A. Again, this appeared  to resolve the problem. 
Mr W then complained to Barclays under Section  75  by which Barclays  would be liable for 
a misrepresentation  or breach of contract  on the part of Garage A. 
Barclays declined Mr Ws claim. It said that Mr W had been told by the garage that the 
attempted repair would  be trial and error, in that it wasnt guaranteed to resolve  the 
problem. 
Mr W was unhappy with this  saying he hadnt been told this until after the original repair 
had been completed. Barclays then appointed an engineer to inspect the car. The engineer 
reported there was no fault at the time of inspection on 30 January 2018  so it appeared 
that the problem had been resolved. Ultimately, Barclays offered  to pay the amount Mr W 
paid to Garage  B  but only as a gesture of goodwill. Mr W then brought  his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  there  was a misrepresentation 
or breach of contract  on the part of Garage A. So, Barclays wasnt liable for the amounts 
claimed. Mr W was unhappy with this, so Ive been asked to make a decision on the 
complaint. 
Mr W has provided evidence that he paid about £90 in September  2019 for further work on 
the cars  suspension   and he thinks the original fault is still occurring and hasnt been fixed. 
Ref: DRN61450432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  To do that, Ive taken  account  of the 
relevant law, which in this case is Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Section 75 makes Barclays responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier under certain circumstances.  Im satisfied  those circumstances are met in this case.
To uphold  the complaint, Id need to find that Garage A told Mr W something that wasnt  true 
which he relied on (a misrepresentation),  and that as a result of that he agreed to pay for the 
repair. Or that Mr W had paid for work  that wasnt done at all or wasnt done with a 
reasonable level of care and skill (a breach of contract).
Im mindful that the repair cost Mr W over £1,700  a significant amount of money.  And Mr W 
says the warning light keeps coming on  which Barclays hasnt disputed. So, its 
understandable that he is unhappy. His expectation  was that the repair  would stop the 
warning light coming  on. 
Barclays rejected the complaint on the basis that Mr W was aware  the repair was done on a 
trial and error basis  that is, that it may or may not work. But Im not persuaded that was the 
case. Barclays based this on a phone  call with Mr W, and Ive listened to a recording of that 
call. 
In the call, Mr W does suggest that Garage A didnt  know what  was causing the warning light 
to come on, and as such the work it did was trial and error. But I think he said that with the 
benefit of hindsight  rather than that being the basis on which  he agreed the original  work  
could be done.  Theres nothing else that suggests or confirms  the repair Mr W paid for was 
done on a trial and error basis. 
My understanding is that Garage A sent Mr W a video  explaining  the fault that the cars 
computer was reporting when it ran a diagnostic test  and what the appropriate repair was 
to fix that. And that Mr W agreed to that repair by clicking  on a link. 
While Mr W expected this to mean that the warning light wouldnt come  on anymore, Ive 
seen nothing that makes  me think Garage A gave  that guarantee. I think  a reasonable 
expectation would be that Garage A would fix the specific  fault it had identified. The repair  in 
November 2017  was to fix a different fault that the car was reporting through  the diagnostic 
test. Mr W didnt pay anything for this repair.  
Ive also considered that the warning light might  come on for any number of reasons.  So, just 
because the light came on later, it doesnt  necessarily mean that the repair Garage A carried  
out was unsuccessful.  The evidence  suggests that on both occasions the faults appeared to 
have been fixed  and the warning light was no longer on. 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect a garage to do more  than to repair the specific 
fault thats presented to it. And the evidence from the tests Garage A ran is that on each 
occasion it found a different fault.  Garage  A carried out a repair  specific to each fault it found 
and, following each  repair,  each  specific  fault was gone. 
Ref: DRN61450433The invoice provided by Garage B confirms  that the fault present on 23 November 2017 was 
on the same  side of the suspension as was worked  on by Garage A  but not specifically 
what it was. Mr W says Garage B recalibrated the suspension and that Garage A shouldve 
done this following its work on the car. Barclays has offered  to reimburse  the cost of this 
work  so if this was necessary because of a failure  on the part of Garage A, then Mr W 
wont have lost out because of it. 
At that stage  and in the call recording Ive listened to when he spoke to Barclays   it 
seems Mr W thought  the problem had been fixed by Garage B. 
Following that call, Barclays had an engineer inspect the car and take it for a test drive. This 
was in January  2018. The engineer  reported  that no fault was showing at that time and the 
warning light did not come on. So, there  was nothing  to suggest that the previous repairs 
had been unsuccessful.  So, although it could be argued Garage A didnt complete the 
repairs entirely as it should have (because it didnt recalibrate the suspension),  the 
underlying fault appeared to be fixed. And as Barclays  has agreed to pay for the 
recalibration, I think it has adequately compensated Mr W for any reasonable failure (breach 
of contract) by Garage A.
Mr W has since said the warning light is still coming  on intermittently. Hes provided an 
invoice from a third garage showing he paid £90 for the right rear dampening adjustment  
valve to be cleaned. But this was in September 2019  two years after Garage A originally 
did work on this part of the car. I think this is too long after the original repair for me to 
conclude Garage A didnt carry out the work with reasonable  skill and care. Given  the part 
needed cleaning   this could just be a result of the car being used during those two years. 
Theres nothing to suggest it needed  cleaning as a result of a failure  on the part of Garage A. 
As such,  I dont uphold  this complaint. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this. He 
says the warning light continued  to come on intermittently following the work done  by 
Garage A. So, in his view the problem hasnt  been  fixed. But I dont think  theres compelling 
evidence of a breach  of contract  by Garage A. This means it wouldnt be fair to make 
Barclays refund Mr W the cost of the original repair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6145043