K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr M1 and Mr M2 took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1993. They  paid a monthly  
amount for the policy. The policy covered both Mr M1 and Mr M2 for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M1 and Mr M2 disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold there arent any copies of the 
paperwork completed now available.  In situations like this Ive to consider the available 
evidence before deciding what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M1 and Mr M2s case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M1 and Mr M2s  complaint because:
Unfortunately there arent any notes available of the meeting, and understandably  
Mr M1 and Mr M2 might not recall it clearly after so long. There are also no 
documents available to me from the time of the sale, which  is not at all surprising 
considering the sale took place well over 20 years ago. So its difficult  to know how 
the policy was positioned with Mr M1 and Mr M2. 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 have said that they didnt knowingly  take out PPI.
In order for me to uphold this complaint for this reason, Id have to think that Mr M1 
and Mr M2s account was more likely  than that of Halifax. But as these events 
happened so long ago and as theres  no documentary evidence  to support either 
partys position, I have to conclude that Mr M1 and Mr M2s account  is only as likely 
not more likely. 
So on balance I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt  presented as optional  
or that they werent  given  a choice about PPI. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M1 and Mr M2, and it seems to have been right 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
 I say this because:
oIt seems  that Mr M1 and Mr M2 were both eligible for the PPI;
Ref: DRN62817732oMr M1 and Mr M2 say they both had good  sick pay  six months  full sick pay 
followed by six months half sick pay. Theyve also said that they had some  
savings of approximately £4,000 and also some shares;
However, the PPI wouldve paid in addition to any employment benefits Mr M1 
and Mr M2 had and for longer  than their period of full sick pay if they were unwell 
and unable to work.  It also covered them for up to 12 months  if they lost their 
jobs. 
So the benefit couldve been of use to them during a difficult time and wouldve 
allowed them the option of using any employment  benefits they had to pay for 
expenses other than their mortgage repayments. Ive also considered  that the 
shares that have been described may not have been readily accessible if 
needed; 
oAlthough Mr M1 and Mr M2 both say that they were in secure  employment, 
nobody can accurately predict  the future and having  this PPI policy would  help 
protect both their financial positions if either  of them were to suffer  an unexpected 
change in circumstances such  as being made unemployed.
So on balance I think that Mr M1 and Mr M2 had a need for the cover and the 
recommendation to take PPI seems to have been  suitable for them.
As well as taking reasonable steps  before making a suitable  recommendation, 
Halifax also had to give Mr M1 and Mr M2 good  enough information  about the policy. 
Ive assumed that Halifax couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think Mr M1 and Mr M2 would still have bought it for the reasons 
Ive already explained. 
Its also possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 dont appear  to have been affected by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mr M1 and Mr M2s comments, but these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M1 and Mr M2s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M1 and Mr 
M2 to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6281773