K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that advice given by The Mortgage & Financial Advice Shop Ltd 
(MFAS) to take out an equity release mortgage was unsuitable. The complaint has been 
brought by Mrs Rs daughter, Mrs S, on her behalf. Mrs R wants to be put back  in the 
position she was in before she took out the equity  release mortgage.
background
In a statement  written in her own words,  Mrs R tells us that in 2015 she owned two rental  
(BTL) properties, but had decided to sell these,  as she was tired of dealing with some  of the 
tenants. (I understand from information  later provided by Mrs S that Mrs S was also a joint 
owner with her mother of one of the BTL properties, and Mrs Rs other daughter (Ms R) was 
joint owner with Mrs R of the other.) Mrs R also says she had a little  bit of money her 
parents had left her, and, having decided to sell her BTL properties, needed to sort out an 
income. 
She discovered a company which sold holiday lodges. The lodge  salesman, Mr H, explained 
to Mrs R that an investment in a lodge  would  provide her with a guaranteed  investment 
income  of 8% per annum  and would also give her a couple  of weeks free holidays with her 
pets. Mr H said this was a gilt-edged investment.
Mrs R decided to go ahead with buying two lodges.  Mr H suggested equity release as a way 
of raising funds to go towards this. I understand that Mr H also explained that the lodge 
company could take over the BTL properties  and that there would be no tax implications for 
Mrs R if it did so.
Mrs R had never heard of equity release, but her neighbour,  Mr C, was the director of MFAS. 
Hed given her mortgage advice in the past and so she asked  him about equity release. In 
April 2015 MFAS advised Mrs R about  equity release mortgages. As a result, Mrs R took out 
an equity release mortgage for a total of £244,070. After repaying her existing mortgage,  she 
received approximately £150,000.
The mortgage didnt  require Mrs R to make any monthly repayments. Instead  interest  (fixed  
at 5.83% for the life of the mortgage) rolled  up into the loan. The mortgage terms and 
conditions provided  that the mortgage  would be repaid on Mrs Rs death or if she needed to 
go into long-term residential care  in which case no early repayment charge (ERC) would 
apply. 
If the mortgage was repaid early, an ERC would be charged which was calculated against  a 
number of factors, one of which was a Target Benchmark Interest Rate,  derived  from an 
index published  by the Financial Times. Some equity release mortgages have an ERC which 
is tied to movement in gilts, but this is not one of those. The mortgage offer contained 
examples of the charges  that might be incurred  if the mortgage  was repaid early.
The offer also explained  the circumstances in which the mortgage could be transferred onto 
another property  if Mrs R wanted to sell her existing home.
The mortgage completed on 19 May 2015.
One BTL property was sold on 2 October  2015  for £188,000. The other  was sold on 
3 December 2015 for £189,950. They were purchased by the lodge  company. Mrs S says 
Ref: DRN61918962the company had told Mrs R she would not have to pay capital gains tax if they were sold to 
it.
By December 2015 Mrs R was having  second thoughts about going ahead with buying two 
lodges. She said in an email to the lodge company dated 6 December 2015 that she thought 
that as  the lodges were just on paper at the moment and nowhere near production  before 
April/May 2016 I could just get my money back  Mrs R explained that she wanted to keep 
one lodge as an investment but wanted the money  back on the other one. But when her 
daughter, Ms R, sold her business in the new year (2016) she (Ms R) would invest  £200,000 
in a lodge for an income, and use Mrs Rs lodge  for holidays. Mrs R said this wasnt  likely to 
be before  April or June.
After the mortgage  completed, Mrs R has told us that she checked with the equity release 
provider about  moving house. She was told that the mortgage could be transferred onto 
another property  but that if she was downsizing she would  need to pay the ERC.
Online records show that Mrs R put her house  up for sale in August 2016  and sold it in 
March 2017.  I do not know  how much  the ERC was, but it is not relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint.
In 2018 Mrs S, on her behalf, complained to MFAS that the advice was unsuitable. MFAS 
didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us.
The lodge  company went into administration in January 2019.
In summary,  Mrs Ss complaint is as follows:
Mrs R owned two investment properties,  along with a significant lump sum of 
inheritance money  and so did not need the equity  release  to purchase the lodge;
she had numerous  pensions and an inheritance;
she was told by Mr H that if she took out equity release, it would enable her to buy 
two lodges instead  of one and receive a guaranteed  8% per annum income on each;
no mention was made in the factfind  compiled by MFAS of Mrs Rs two BTL 
properties, or her pension income;
Mrs R was told by Mr H that the BTLs could  be passed on to the lodge  company in 
order to finance  the investment in the lodge   and which was advertised  on the lodge 
companys website as having  no tax implications. Mrs S wants to know  if any of 
these claims were  investigated before Mrs R was advised that this was a good idea.
she is concerned that Mr C of MFAS said hed given no advice to Mrs R about the 
investment in the holiday lodges,  or directed  her to another financial adviser;
the fact-find says that Mrs R wanted  the money for a holiday home, but no mention 
was made that this was a second holiday lodge  investment with the same company 
which had suggested the equity release in the first place;
Mrs R should have  been advised  that this was a high-risk  investment, especially 
when taking out a lifetime  mortgage  to fund this unknown project;
she considers MFAS was under a duty of care to ensure the beneficiaries of Mrs Rs 
estate  that is herself and her sister, Ms R  were  safeguarded;
Mrs S is concerned at the commission that was paid;
She is also concerned  that Mr C, when replying to the complaint, described himself  
as complaints  manager  and also mortgage adviser.
Ref: DRN61918963An adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs S, on behalf  
of Mrs R, disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have 
disappointing news for Mrs R; Im not upholding her complaint. These  are my reasons.
The available evidence persuades me that it was not MFASs suggestion that Mrs R should 
take out an equity release mortgage. Im satisfied from what  Mrs R has told us that by the 
time she spoke to MFAS in April 2015  she had already decided  to do the following:
sell her BTL properties to fund the purchase  of one lodge (I conclude this because  it 
is what Mrs R has told us in her own handwritten statement); and
fund the purchase  of another  lodge by taking  out an equity release mortgage.  (And I 
conclude this because  Mrs R has confirmed  that she discussed  equity release with 
Mr H, the lodge company  salesman, before she spoke to MFAS.)
Ive looked at the factfind compiled by MFAS at the time. This was compiled using  
information provided by Mrs R to MFAS. Mrs R signed the factfind, confirming its contents 
were true.
Mrs S says there is no mention of the BTL properties. But thats  because  Mrs R had, 
according to her own account,  already  decided  to sell these to buy a lodge. Mrs S is also 
concerned that theres no mention of Mrs Rs pension income. But for equity release 
mortgages, there is no need  to assess affordability because there are no monthly  
repayments to be met.
The suitability letter dated 28 May 2015 sets out the alternatives that were considered before 
MFAS recommended the equity release  mortgage,  such as downsizing  or raising money  
elsewhere. None  of those options was appropriate. Contrary to what Mrs S says, the equity 
release mortgage  was not a high-risk product. The product is correctly classified as medium 
risk on the factfind.
Im also satisfied that MFAS explained  the benefits  and risks of equity release generally, and 
specifically in relation to the selected  product.  I also note that Ms R was present at the 
meeting with MFAS when  equity release  was discussed with her mother.  The available  
evidence suggests  Ms R was also aware of the intention  to purchase the lodge properties.
There are some circumstances where we consider complaints about  investments made  
using equity release funds.  But these  are, specifically,  where  the customer  is advised to take 
out an equity release  by a financial adviser,  and the same financial adviser  then goes onto 
sell the customer an investment bond  which  is intended to generate an annuity and into 
which the proceeds of the equity release mortgage are invested. 
That is not the case here. In Mrs Rs situation,  she had already decided to purchase one 
lodge using BTL and the second lodge  using equity release when  she spoke to MFAS. 
In the circumstances, MFAS had no duty to give advice to Mrs R about the investment she 
had already decided to make in the lodge  properties. This was outside  the scope of its 
regulatory remit. Mrs R asked MFAS for advice about equity release mortgages. The advice 
Ref: DRN61918964she was given was suitable and the product sourced  after MFAS considered alternative 
options for raising finance and researched  the available equity release products  achieved  
Mrs Rs purpose  of being able to raise sufficient funds to pay off her existing mortgage  and 
purchase a second  lodge.
There is nothing in the documentation  to suggest the ERC is linked to the gilt markets.  It may 
well be that Mr H, for the lodge company,  said that investing in the lodges was a gilt-edged  
investment.  But the mortgage itself has no link to gilt yields   the ERC  is linked  to a Target 
Benchmark Interest Rate. So I think its unlikely  MFAS told Mrs R that the mortgage  was 
linked to gilts, when it was not. 
Mrs R had advice from her own solicitor before she took out the equity release mortgage,  
and so had the opportunity at that stage to raise  any concerns she might  have  had about  it.
I can see that it wasnt until 8 months after the advice had been given in April 2015 that 
Mrs R had a change of plans about her decisions to purchase two lodges. In her email dated  
6 December 2015 to Mr H & Mrs R says:  
To be able to do this project at all I need the money  back.  It didnt enter my head if I 
needed to move into a smaller (lower cost)  [house] I would have trouble with the 
mortgage making me lose a lot of my equity 
Me in my wisdom thought  as lodges were just on paper at the moment and nowhere 
near production before  April/May  2016 I could just get my money  back  as you said I 
could always get my money  out if needed! (not expecting to have to)  
I needed to know  when my lodges  were likely to be useable and what  was happening  
to the site as I seemed to have bought  into a field (as long as field is good and has 
amenities which  I am confident now and happy about) 
I want to keep [one lodge]  with my investment of £270,000 for my income  (which  is 
not bringing in £2,000/month but £21,600 per annum), would like to get back [other 
lodge] that is going on the rollover, which rollover hasnt started yet. 
I have to give back to [equity release provider] £240,000 plus £16/17,000  interest  
(that figure is up to April 2016). I owe [lodge company] £70,000+ so that is what  I 
understand so far. 
[Ms R] has to pay back her mortgage  as cant take to a new build so we will have  to 
cover that, plus she has to do an ERC of around £8,000.  We cannot  pay high interest 
rates on too much, so my money is important.  
[Ms R] is wanting to sell her business in the new year  and out of that invest  
£200,000 back  in a lodge for an income (we can use mine  for hols) but not likely to 
be before  April-June time
So it appears that some months after the equity  release mortgage was taken out, Mrs R had 
decided to change  her plans significantly,  as a result of which she realised that she was 
going to be out of pocket. But none of that can be attributed to the advice  given by MFAS.
MFAS was under no duty of care to Mrs S or Ms R. MFASs client  was Mrs R and she 
confirmed that shed discussed her plans with her beneficiaries. 
Ive noted MFASs explanation  about the increased commission it was paid by the equity 
release provider. Im satisfied its explanation  about going onto a different charging structure 
is reasonable. There is nothing untoward about  this.  I also note MFAS gave £1,000 of its 
commission to Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN61918965Mrs S is unhappy that Mr C, the director of MFAS, answered the complaint  himself. 
Complaint-handling isnt an activity thats  covered under our rules, so I cant  comment on 
this any further. 
I appreciate Mrs R later had buyers remorse over her decision to invest  in the lodge 
properties. I am sorry to note the company has gone  into administration.  Mrs R might want to 
contact the administrators  to see if there  is any possibility of her receiving anything  back out 
of the administration. Thats a matter for her.
Having reviewed the complaint, and looking at the timeline of events, Im satisfied that the 
advice given by MFAS to Mrs R in April 2015 to take out an equity release mortgage  was 
suitable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6191896