K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of P, a limited company, about what The Society of Lloyds did 
after he made a claim  on its business insurance policy. 
background
In August  last year there was a robbery at Ps premises and equipment which it needed  to 
carry out its work was stolen. Mr H made a claim on the business insurance  policy  P held 
with Lloyds for the replacement of the stolen equipment. He also claimed around £44,000 for 
two months of business interruption. 
After looking into the claim  Lloyds accepted liability and payment for the equipment  was 
made in September. It also agreed payment  for the business  interruption  element of the 
claim. But it said when  Mr H took out the policy hed said the income  for his business was 
£80,000. However, based on the information  hed provided when making his claim Lloyds 
thought the actual figure was £240,000. So it said he was under  insured and where that was 
the case the policy allowed it to reduce the claim in proportion  to the under insurance. As a 
result it only agreed to pay £14,600  for this.   
Mr H was unhappy with that payment. He was also unhappy with how Lloyds had handled  
his claim and said, in particular, it hadnt  made reasonable adjustments for his dyslexia. 
Our investigator agreed P was under  insured and the policy terms did allow Lloyds  to reduce 
the claim amount  where that was the case. And she thought Lloyds had done what it could 
to assist once Mr H told it about his dyslexia. But she didnt agree with how Lloyds had 
calculated the total income  for P. It was a start-up  business and so its earnings would have 
been lower in it its early  months. She thought  it would be fair to use an annual  income  figure 
of around £135,000 meaning the business interruption claim would come  to £26,187 
(meaning a further  payment  of £11,540). 
Lloyds agreed  but Mr H didnt. He said the increase in the amount to be paid didnt put him 
back in the position he would have  been  but for the robbery. And it didnt cover him for staff 
sick leave and taking  on new staff. He remained very unhappy  Lloyds hadnt  made  
reasonable adjustments, such as providing  his policy  terms in an easy  read format. He said 
the law required them to do so. So I need  to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
business interruption  claim
Ive looked first at what the policy terms say about under insurance  and what  the insurer is 
entitled to do where  thats the case. In relation to this it says:
If You have declared to Us a Loss of Income total amount and at the time of the Property 
Damage the applicable Loss of Income, or prospective Loss  of Income, is greater than the 
declared Loss of Income for an equivalent  period prior to the Property  Damage, the amount 
We pay will be proportionally reduced
Ref: DRN64405652I can see from the policy schedule that when taking  out the Mr H said P had an annual  
income of £80,000.  But the claim he subsequently made  for two months loss of income 
totalled £44,384. So I think Lloyds were right to conclude P was under insured and under the 
terms of the policy  they were therefore entitled to reduce the amount they paid on a 
proportionate basis. 
But I also agree  with our investigator that the way Lloyds calculated Ps income wasnt right.  
In deciding P had an annual  income  of £240,000 it simply multiplied the monthly  amount for 
the claim period  by 12. However,  as a start-up business P wouldnt have  been  generating 
those earnings initially.  Looking at the information  Mr H provided about  what Ps income 
actually was I think that using an annual figure of around £135,000 would be reasonable. So 
I agree  the correct  claim value is £26,187. 
I appreciate thats  still a significant reduction on the claim Mr H made and doesnt put him 
back in the position he was prior to the robbery. But I think the policy  is clear  that where a 
business is under insured Lloyds is entitled  to reduce the settlement figure on that basis. 
And I dont  think its acted unfairly  in doing  that here.
Mr H also says he hasnt been paid for the sick leave he had to pay to a staff member  (as a 
result of the robbery)  and for taking on new staff. However, Ive reviewed  his policy  and I 
cant see thats something which would be specifically covered by it; his policy  schedule  says 
it doesnt include increased cost of working cover. So I dont think Lloyds has done anything 
wrong in not making a payment here. 
claim handling
Mr H believes  the claim should  have been handled  more quickly. I appreciate this was a 
really difficult time for him as his business  was unable to operate.  I can understand  why he 
was keen to get up and running again  as soon as possible. And having reviewed the time 
line of what happened  I agree that on some occasions matters could have been progressed 
more quickly. But overall Ive not identified  significant delay here. So I dont think  theres 
anything Lloyds needs to do to put things right here.
I know that Mr Hs key concern is that Lloyds didnt make reasonable adjustments once  he 
told it about his disability. And he doesnt  believe it complied with the law. However, its for 
the courts to determine whether or not there has been a breach of the law. What  I need to 
decide is whether  any adjustments  made by Lloyds once it became aware of Mr Hs needs 
were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that after hed made his claim  Mr H told Lloyds in an email on 14 August that he 
was dyslexic. In response Lloyds said it would do all it could to accommodate  this and asked 
if he had any special  requirements. Mr H didnt ask for anything  specific but did ask for 
copies of its disability  policies and complaints procedure; Lloyds provided  information in 
response and also said it would be happy to discuss these at an upcoming  meeting.  
I appreciate it didnt provide these in an easy read  format and doesnt appear to have 
responded to a request  to provide the policy terms in that format either. Ultimately it wasnt 
able to do that as the documents arent  available  in that format.  But I agree that should have 
been made clearer to Mr H at an earlier stage. However,  I can see that in response to 
queries Mr H raised about what particular terms in the policy meant  Lloyds did provide 
additional clarification  to help him understand this. And Mr H didnt then ask for additional 
assistance in relation  to this. 
Ref: DRN64405653In addition while I recognise Mr H has been personally distressed by what  he believes to be 
the failure to make  reasonable adjustments for his disability its his business  (a limited 
company) which is bringing  this complaint. So its only the impact on that company  I can 
consider, not the impact on Mr H personally.  A limited company cant suffer distress, 
although could  be caused inconvenience. But I dont  think  that any inconvenience caused  to 
P in this case is sufficient  to justify a compensation payment  from Lloyds. 
And if Mr H feels the terms of the policy werent properly explained when  he took it out thats 
an issue hed need to raise with the seller of the policy (which I understand was his broker).
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. The Society  of Lloyds will need  to put things right by 
paying P an additional £11,540. It will also need to pay interest at 8% simple  on that amount 
from the date the full business interruption claim should have been paid until the date 
payment is issued.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H (on behalf of 
P) to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6440565