K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt continue  to take stakeholder 
pension contributions from her bank  account  after her normal retirement date  even though  
she said it promised it would. Shes also complained that since  she contacted Reassure over 
the matter it still hasnt taken further  direct debits that she says it promised to take out of her 
account. She wants to be compensated  for the time its taken her to sort out the matter and 
the inconvenience caused.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 3 June 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
ReAssure didnt provide any further information  for me to consider, but Ms N didnt agree. 
She remained of the view that ReAssure had made an error and couldnt understand why it 
wouldnt provide  the call recording which she said demonstrated that she had asked  
ReAssure to continue  with her direct  debit just before it cancelled it. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I can understand Ms Ns frustration 
that theres no record of the call recording  that she says would prove that she was told her 
direct debit would continue.
But as I said previously its not possible to listen to that recording, so Ive taken into account  
the notes that were  made of a previous telephone  conversation Ms N had with ReAssure. I 
think the notes  showed that ReAssures position  had been consistent  in that it had made  
Ms N aware that her plan would defer to age 85 if the benefits werent taken  at her normal 
retirement age (NRA). And I think this information would more  likely than not have been 
conveyed again  in August  2018.   
I concluded  from the evidence  that Id seen  that there was most  likely a 
misunderstanding between what ReAssure wanted  to confirm about the deferment of the 
plan and Ms Ns desire to establish if her direct  debit was to continue  past the NRA. And Ive 
also borne  in mind  the amount of written correspondence that ReAssure sent Ms N, which 
was clear in Well stop collecting  contributions  on your selected retirement date, so if you 
want to make payments  past then (and youre  under age 75) youll  need to let us know.
Of course I know  Ms N will say that she contacted ReAssure to let it know she wanted to 
carry on paying into her pension, but Im not able to confirm what was said during the 
conversation she had. As Ive suggested  I think there was most likely a genuine  
misunderstanding, and on that basis I dont think I can safely  say that ReAssure made a 
mistake and therefore I dont intend  to tell it to do anything  further  over the matter.
 
Ref: DRN69761652my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ns 
complaint against  ReAssure  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms N complains that ReAssure  Limited (ReAssure)  didnt  continue to take stakeholder pension 
contributions from her bank account  after her normal retirement date  even though she said it 
promised it would. Shes  also complained that since she contacted Reassure over the matter it still 
hasnt taken further  direct debits that she says it promised to take out of her account. She wants to be 
compensated for the time its taken her to sort out the matter and the inconvenience caused.
  
Ref: DRN69761653background 
Ms N took out a stakeholder  pension plan with a normal retirement date (NRD)  of age 60. In 2015 she 
applied to extend the NRD to age 65 and Reassure   who had taken  over the administration of her 
pension plan,  confirmed  the change  on 9 April 2015. Ms N made  monthly contributions  to the plan.
In March 2017  Ms N received an annual  statement for her pension and as a result contacted 
ReAssure to discuss the NRD again. ReAssure  said the NRD  was 21 August 2018 and confirmed that 
it automatically deferred  to age 85 if she didnt  take benefits the following year.  ReAssure says it sent 
Ms N another  statement in February 2018 and a retirement pack  in June 2018. 
However, in September 2018 Ms N discovered  the direct debit for the monthly  pension premium 
hadnt been taken. She contacted ReAssure and says she was told that the missing payment could 
be taken the following  month. But it wasnt  so she contacted  ReAssure again  and it explained to 
Ms N the process involved in making up the missed premiums and reinstating the plan. 
Ms N then had to complete a reinstatement  pack  so that the missed premiums  which  totalled 
£1,025.56, could be taken  from her bank in February 2019 and the monthly premium would then be 
taken thereafter on the 1st of each month. 
Ms N complained to ReAssure  about the time and trouble  this has caused her. She said she was told 
on the phone in August 2018 that her direct debit would continue automatically after the NRD.  She 
says she was also told subsequently  that ReAssure  would take the September payment that had 
been missed,  so she wanted  to know why ReAssure hadnt  done what  it said it would do.
Reassure said it had made Ms N aware  in a number  of communications that her premiums would 
automatically stop in August  2018  unless she confirmed otherwise,  and it didnt have any record of 
her doing that. And it said it had then followed the process of reinstating the plan  with the missed 
payments being applied  to how it would  have been had contributions  not stopped.  
But Ms N felt ReAssure hadnt treated her fairly and hadnt apologised for the administrative errors 
she said it had made. So, unhappy with the outcome Ms N brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said that Ms Ns payments stopped suddenly in 
September 2018 despite  a previous contact note where  Reassure told Ms N the plan would continue 
until age 85 if she didnt take any benefits. So he thought ReAssure should have apologised to Ms N 
and ought to pay £100 for the inconvenience caused by its administration error. 
Ms N accepted the investigators  findings but reiterated that she wanted an apology from ReAssure 
for the way it had treated her. She said she couldnt understand why it held some call recordings but 
not others which she thought were important in proving what was said. 
But ReAssure didnt agree.  It provided details of the letters it sent in 2015 and 2018 which stated  that 
her monthly  contributions would cease on the 21 August 2018,and that Ms N would need to contact 
ReAssure in order for them  to continue.  As it didnt  hear from Ms N until November 2018  when the 
premiums had already stopped  it offered to reinstate them and thats what  has now happened. So it 
didnt believe it had made any errors and shouldnt have  to pay any compensation or apologise. 
The investigator still thought the complaint should be upheld as he said the telephone conversation in 
March 2017 would have  confirmed to Ms N that her pension had been extended beyond  her NRD and 
there wouldnt be any reason for her to contact ReAssure  again over that matter. 
ReAssure still didnt agree,  so as the matter couldnt be resolved its been referred  to me for a 
decision.
  
Ref: DRN69761654my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I note shortly after she brought her complaint Ms N said shed 
spoken to ReAssure who confirmed it would be taking all the unpaid contributions  in one payment and 
that her usual monthly contributions would  restart  again  in February 2019. Ms N hasnt said this didnt 
happen, so Im pleased to learn that her pension plan contribution levels are now where  they would  
have been but for the missed payments.
But even with that in mind, I can see that Ms N strongly  believes  shes been badly treated by 
ReAssure and shes  disappointed not to have received any apology   or any gesture of 
compensation, for the impact this matter has had on her. And I have some sympathy for her position  
as I think  she assumed her pension premiums would  continue past her NRD following  her request of 
March 2017 and August 2018. But I dont think ReAssure did anything  wrong here  and I know  that 
will disappoint Ms N, so Ill explain why.
Ive seen how ReAssure wrote to Ms N in March  2017 enclosing her annual  pension statement. As a 
result of that statement and the information contained within  it, I can see she rang ReAssure to 
discuss the NRD.  And Ive seen ReAssures contact  notes which noted Ms N was told that the normal 
retirement date for her plan was 21 August  2018  which would defer to age 85 if she didnt take the 
benefits on that date. So I think Ms N clearly raised the issue of not drawing  her pension benefits  at 
the NRD, at that time.  
And Ms N also says she spoke with ReAssure  in August  2018  when the NRD  was due  to ensure 
that her contributions continued beyond that date.   But ReAssure cant find any record of that 
conversation. Ms N says she has been impacted by this matter. She maintains she was told the direct 
debit would continue and when it didnt  she had to make  numerous calls and spend a lot of time to get 
the matter resolved. 
And she says shes been impacted by having to make a one off payment of over £1,000 for missed  
premiums through no fault of her own.
But, on the other  hand,  Ive seen a letter from ReAssure  dated  April 2015 which noted 
Ms Ns revised NRD, and Ive seen a copy of the retirement pack which  ReAssure issued to Ms N in 
June 2018. The 2015  letter said if you are currently contributing to your pension, payments will 
continue to be collected until your new retirement date. And in June 2018 the retirement  pack 
confirmed that one of the options available  was to do nothing  and you can stay in your ReAssure 
pension for longer if youd like. If you want to leave your retirement choice until later,  well still write to 
you each year to tell you the value of your pension  pot and remind you of your options.
But importantly the subject of future contributions was also confirmed under  the section can I pay in? 
which went on to explain that you can usually continue to pay into your ReAssure pension until youre 
75. Well stop collecting contributions on your selected retirement  date, so if you want  to make 
payments past then (and youre under age 75) youll  need  to let us know.
An earlier annual  statement that ReAssure sent Ms N in February 2018 also confirmed the position 
with regards to contributions stating your contributions do not increase each year. Well  keep 
collecting them until 21 August 2018; let us know if youd  like to carry on paying into your pension  
past this date. 
In cases  like this where the parties involved have a different version  of events, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probability   in other words what I think was most likely  to have 
happened. And its quite clear here the crucial  point is that ReAssure says it cant  find a record of the 
conversation it had with Ms N in August 2018, so there is some uncertainty about what was said.  
Ms N said this conversation  would prove that she was told the direct debit would continue  past her 
NRD.   
Ref: DRN69761655While I dont  dispute that Ms N had that conversation, I think that  while the general principle of 
extending the pension  beyond  an NRD would  have  been  discussed, Im not persuaded that the 
specific point of continuing the monthly premiums was discussed.  
I say that because, although  theres no record of the call, Ive taken  into account the notes ReAssure 
has provided  from a call in March 2017 when  it confirmed the plan would automatically defer to age 
85 if Ms N didnt take her benefits the following year.  ReAssure has confirmed  this is its correct  policy  
in such  cases, which is what it says it then confirmed  in the correspondence  it sent the following  year 
prior to Ms Ns NRD.  
So, if I accept that ReAssure has been  consistent in delivering this information  I think  its most likely  it 
would have conveyed the same information  in August 2018  to Ms N  namely that the NRD would be 
deferred to age 85, although any regular contributions  wouldnt continue. So I think  there may have 
been some  confusion between ReAssures explanation  of its policy about  deferring  plans past NRDs 
and Ms Ns enquiry about whether her contributions  would continue  past that date. 
And while I know Ms N will disagree with that  as its not clear what was said, Ive also given more  
weight to the written evidence of the letters that were  sent to Ms N and which make it clear that the 
contributions were going to be stopped in August  2018.  
In order  to agree with the investigator and tell ReAssure  to pay compensation for the impact this has 
had on Ms N, I need to be sure that ReAssure has made an error.  But I dont think it has. The letter 
from 2015  and the pack from 2018 both set out clearly that the pension benefits didnt  have to be 
taken at NRD,  but further contributions  would be stopped and there would need to be an instruction to 
continue them  which I cant see that Ms N gave. So I dont think  ReAssure did anything  wrong  
there. 
I think  this situation has been caused by a genuine misunderstanding around whether ReAssure said 
monthly contributions  would  continue  past NRD.  I do understand that Ms N has been very upset  by 
her contributions not being collected. But for the reasons  Ive given, I havent seen enough to safely  
say that ReAssure  is responsible for this or that it has done anything  wrong. So I dont intend to ask it 
to do anything.
Ive also considered what Ms N said about  the problems  shes had since ReAssure  stopped her 
contributions after August  2018. And Ive seen that Ms N says she was told her 
September 2018 payment  would be taken out the following month (October)  but it wasnt.  However, 
ReAssure says it wasnt aware  that payments had been missed until Ms N contacted  it in 
November 2018, when it issued the necessary  documentation  to reinstate the plan and collect the 
missed premiums  before continuing with monthly payments in February  2019.
Although I can appreciate the frustration this caused Ms N, I think, on balance,  that ReAssure did 
what it was required to do to put things right after the plan had been stopped. It would have taken 
some time to issue the paperwork to Ms N and for her to complete and return it so I dont  think  its 
unreasonable that ReAssure had to collect a number of missed payments and could only reinstate  
monthly payments from February 2019. As Ive already said I understand the plan has now been  
reinstated correctly.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im not currently minded to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69761656
Ref: DRN6976165