K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage and further advance.
background
This complaint is about two policies. The first policy was taken out in 1992 alongside Mr Ss 
mortgage, and the second policy was sold in 2004 around the time Mr S took out a further 
advance with BoS, Halifax at the time.   
Mr S recalls  the policy sold in 1992  as being sold by a different  business, but this business 
merged with Halifax (now  a trading name  of BoS) in 1995. So to keep things simple, I will 
refer to BoS as the seller throughout the decision.
Our adjudicator considered both sales and felt that the policy  sold in 1992 was not mis-sold 
but the policy sold in 2004 was mis-sold. Mr S disagreed with his assessment of the 1992 
sale. BoS didnt  respond to the initial assessment, so Ive considered  both of these sales  in 
my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
the sale of the 1992 policy
Ive decided this policy wasnt mis-sold  and Ill explain  why. 
Mr S says he was told the mortgage  would only be approved if he agreed to take out the 
policy, along with other  insurances. I think what Mr S has told us are his honest recollections 
of the sale, but hes not told us enough  about  what happened for me fairly and reasonably  
uphold the complaint on this evidence alone. And as the policy  was sold a long time ago  
this is something I need to keep in mind when  deciding what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened. 
As the adjudicator stated in the initial assessment, there is limited evidence  available from 
the time of sale to safely conclude that the policy was not presented as optional,  which  I 
agree with. Looking  closely  at Mr Ss mortgage application form I can see there  is a section 
for the policy  where the amount of total benefit  and the type of cover  required has been  
entered. So I think its likely a discussion took place  about PPI where Mr S decided that he 
wanted accident, sickness and unemployment  cover and not just accident and sickness. Ive 
also not seen  anything on Mr Ss application  form to suggest that this policy was compulsory 
or a condition of the mortgage  being  approved. So I think its more  likely than not that if Mr S 
didnt want any cover, this section  wouldve  been left blank. Mr S signed this application 
form, so I think  this reflected what he wanted  at the time. So based  on this evidence, I cant  
safely conclude the policy wasnt presented  as optional and I think Mr S chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this now.
Ref: DRN65410882Mr S hasnt told us whether he was advised to take out the policy. BoS has treated this sale 
as advised, and our adjudicator also assessed this as an advised  sale.  Neither party 
responded to dispute this, so Ive also considered  this as an advised sale in my decision. 
As an advised sale BoS had to check that the policy was right for Mr S  and based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover and he seems  to have had a need for it.  
Mr S says he had sufficient sick pay from his employer which he couldve used to cover his 
mortgage repayments if he was too sick to work. Mr S also says he couldve relied on his 
partner to support  him. Ive considered this and also what Ive seen of Mr Ss wider  
circumstances at the time. While  I accept  Mr Ss partner wouldve liked to have helped him, 
support from other cant always be guaranteed,  as their circumstance can also change. 
Mr Ss was solely responsible for keeping up his mortgage repayments  and it looks like he 
also had other debts to maintain at the time. Upon a successful claim the policy  wouldve 
covered Mr Ss monthly  mortgage payments for up to 12 months. So I think  having  the policy 
in place wouldve  given  Mr S additional financial security in the event he was too sick to work 
or made redundant.  And the policy wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay or any other 
finances he had available  at the time,  so these wouldve been free to use for other  debts or 
expenses. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the evidence suggests he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the policy  would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the policy  taken out in 1992  to 
Mr S. But Ive set out later on in my decision what BoS has to do in relation to this complaint. 
the sale of the 2004 policy
Ive decided this policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
BoS says the policy  was sold over the phone  and it advised Mr S to take it out. Our 
adjudicator also assessed this case on the basis that this was an advised telephone sale,  
and neither party came back  to dispute this, so Ive considered this case  on the same basis. 
Unfortunately BoS has not been able to provide a call recording for me to listen to as the 
sale took place  so long ago. But its also not provided a copy  of a call script or anything  else 
to show what its sales person wouldve been  instructed  to follow. Without this, I have to 
consider what Mr S says about how the policy was sold to him at the time  as in the 
absence of anything  from BoS, this is best evidence available. 
Mr S says he wasnt given the option to decline the cover  and he thinks  it was added 
automatically. While Ive considered that this sale took place around 14 years  ago, and 
memories can fade over such a long time, Ive not seen any other  persuasive evidence  of 
what was discussed  on the call. From  what we know about how BoS was selling these 
policies over the phone, its likely  Mr S wouldve been sent some documents  following the 
call. But these wouldve  been received after the sale of the policy had already taken  place. 
And I havent seen  any such documents from Mr Ss 2004 sale, or any samples  which BoS 
says wouldve been used, so I dont know what these documents wouldve said. 
Ref: DRN65410883I understand Mr S had taken out a mortgage some  years  earlier  and at this time, as I found 
above, I think he knew the policy was optional and he chose to take it out. But when Mr S 
took out his mortgage it was sold by one business,  and by the time he had taken out his 
further advance  that business had merged with BoS. So in my view, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Mr S to have thought  that the different businesses had different 
requirements when  lending money.  So I dont  think that just because  he knew the policy was 
separate and optional  at the time he took out his mortgage in 1992, in this case, means  that 
he wouldve known the 2004 policy was optional when it was sold by a different business.
So overall, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that BoS informed Mr S the policy was 
an optional policy and that he was given the choice to decline the cover.  Ive also not seen 
any evidence that followed  the initial sale which wouldve alerted Mr S to the fact that he had 
taken out an optional insurance with his further  advance. Furthermore, our adjudicator 
upheld the complaint about the sale of the policy for the same  reasons, and BoS has not 
responded with any other evidence or comments for me to consider. So Im not persuaded 
that I can safely conclude  that BoS properly explained to Mr S that the PPI was optional, 
such that he understood he could take the further  advance without the cover. And I think  he 
has lost out as a result  as I dont think he wouldve taken out the policy if he was given the 
choice to decline it. Therefore I uphold the sale of the 2004 policy on this point. 
 
putting things right 
the sale of the 1992 policy
BoS doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the policy taken  out in 1992  to Mr S, but BoS 
has paid back some of the cost of the policy to Mr S because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the premium) - 
so it should have told Mr S about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
the sale of the 2004 policy
BoS should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the policy.  This 
means BoS should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the policy
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the policy, BoS can take off what  it got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN65410884For the reasons  outlined  above, I think the policy sold in 1992 wasnt  mis-sold, but the policy  
sold in 2004 was mis-sold. 
So Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 1992 policy to Mr S. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation for this policy.
Bank of Scotland plc should pay compensation to Mr S for the mis-sale of the 2004 policy as 
outlined above.  But Bank of Scotland  plc can deduct any amount already  offered and paid to 
Mr S in relation to this policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6541088