K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complained about a loan she took out through a company called Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP. (Uncle  Buck). She says it lent to her irresponsibly  and this went  on to contribute  to her 
financial problems. The complaint relates  to one loan as set out below. 
 
Loan Amount Instalments Due for
19/1/2019 £300 4 instalments @ c £130  pcm
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld.  
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs S could repay the loan she was given, in a sustainable manner. These checks ought  to 
have taken account of a range of different  factors, such  as the amount being  lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might normally be reasonable and proportionate.  However, certain factors might  point to the 
fact that Uncle  Buck  should have fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Uncle  Buck was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loan, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN62012662Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that Mrs S 
could sustainably make  her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Mrs S, including  
assessing her income and expenditure. It says it also carried  out a credit check to assess  
her creditworthiness. It says that all this information  showed that she would be able to make 
the loan repayments she was committing to.  
However, our experience  of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty 
managing their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan. For Mrs Ss 
situation, Ive considered  what Uncle  Buck told us what it would have seen from its own 
checks when it granted  her this loan. I accept at this at particular point in time, it was still in 
the early stages of a lending relationship with her. 
But even these somewhat basic checks showed  that Mrs S already had short-term  loans  
outstanding with other provider(s) at same the time as making  the application for her Uncle 
Buck loan. I think it was also evident she had borrowed  heavily  in the recent  past.
Ive thought about all this and whether it would have been obvious enough that Mrs S was 
having difficulties  in managing her money. And I think  that having significant  amounts of 
outstanding short-term loans  in this case there were three such loans outstanding  would 
have shown that Mrs S was most  probably having  financial  trouble. With this information, 
resulting from its own checks,  I dont  I think Uncle Buck ought to have lent her the money for 
the loan. I dont think it was responsible to do so.
Ive looked very carefully at what Uncle Buck says about Mrs S not giving accurate 
information about her income, expenditure and her overall  financial  situation. I also agree 
that Mrs S should have  known she had committed to a debt management plan elsewhere. 
But as a lending  business, it is Uncle Buck that is the regulated  party here,  and in my view 
this simply demonstrates why lenders should  proportionately check  consumers financial 
information according to the circumstances that prevail, before deciding to lend. I think  any 
reasonable assessment of Mrs Ss finances  would have easily shown she was substantially 
indebted and had been borrowing  and indeed, frequently attempting  to borrow   regularly 
over the recent past. 
With these obvious  risks in mind,  Uncle Bucks lending approach ought therefore to have 
been much  more comprehensive, to ensure Mrs S was being  lent money sustainably. I dont 
think Uncle Buck did this and why Im upholding the complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mrs S, Uncle Buck should:
A.refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid on the loan;
Ref: DRN62012663B.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
C.Pay Mrs S the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in 
relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and I direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right for Mrs S 
as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6201266