K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that the total loss settlement AXA Insurance  Designated Activity 
Companys total loss paid him is too low. Mr M made a claim under his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. 
For ease Ill refer to the insurer as AXA in my decision.
background
Mr M made a claim to his insurer,  AXA.  It said Mr Ms vehicle wasnt economical to repair.  
So it settled  his claim by paying him the market  value  for his vehicle at the time of loss. 
AXA paid Mr M £3,000 (minus the excess due) after deducting £2,000 from the settlement it 
paid for pre existing damage. It said if Mr M wanted to retain the vehicle, it would deduct a 
salvage fee of £500  from the £3,000.
Mr M complained that the settlement was far too low. 
Our investigator looked at the motor  trade  guides in line with our approach  to valuation 
complaints. She found that they varied widely. So she departed  from our general approach 
and also looked  at adverts  in the country  where  Mr M lived for similar vehicles. 
Adverts for similar vehicles ranged between  £7,500  and £8,295.  But the lower valuation was 
for a vehicle with lower  mileage. Mr Ms vehicle had higher than average  mileage.
So the investigator thought a reasonable starting point to value Mr Ms vehicle was £7,000. 
And this was the sum Mr M thought his vehicle  was worth in line with AXAs  definition  of 
market value before taking a deduction  for pre existing damage.  
So our investigator thought AXA should  increase the total loss settlement  sum to £5,000  
by using £7,000 as a starting point  and deducting £2,000 for pre existing damage.  
AXA didnt agree with the investigators approach. So the case  has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached  a valuation in a 
fair way and in line with the policy. 
AXAs policy  says the most it will pay in the event  of a total loss is the market  value  of the 
vehicle. It defines  market value as; the amount you would have got for your vehicle if you
offered it for sale."
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main  motor trade 
guides are a reliable  way to decide a valuation. They provide valuations  based on likely  
selling prices for similar vehicles in the month  of loss. 
Ref: DRN65733732In this case, the investigator departed from our usual approach as the guides varied so 
widely. They  gave valuations of £4,676,  £6,715 and £8,412. 
AXA said that if we applied our usual approach, we should take the average of the guides  
but if one is out of kilter with the others,  it should be disregarded. AXA thought  we should 
disregard the higher valuation.  By doing  this, the average of the remaining guides came  to 
£5,695.50. After deducting  the £2,000 for pre existing damage, this gives a settlement sum 
of £3,695.50  much  closer to the valuation it paid. AXA believes  the approach weve  applied  
isnt fair. 
But even if we applied  our usual approach and disregarded the out of kilter valuation, in this 
case it would  be the lower one. The gap between  the lower  and middle  valuation  is greater 
than the gap between the middle and higher valuation. And so the average of the correct two 
valuations comes to £7,563.50. Weve taken into account the fact that Mr Ms vehicle  had 
higher than average mileage. And so  even if we apply our usual approach  I think  the 
investigators recommendation to put things  right is fair and reasonable. I think a starting 
point of £7,000 to value  Mr Ms vehicle seems reasonable. And so I think AXA should 
increase the total loss settlement as set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company to pay Mr M a further  £2,000 in addition  to the 
£3,000 (if it hasnt already paid this) minus any applicable excess for the market value of his 
vehicle.
AXA should  pay interest on this amount from the date of the claim to the date it pays  Mr M at 
a rate of 8% simple interest  a year.
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If M considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573373