K820x#14complaint
The liquidator of K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt paid enough 
compensation in respect of an interest  rate hedging product (IRHP) it sold to K in 2003.
(The liquidator has also made a complaint  on behalf  of a second  limited company, which Ill 
call N. A Mr C, who in 2003 was the director  of both K and N, has also made a complaint on 
his own behalf.  I have issued separate final decisions on those complaints, but since  the 
issues are connected  I will mention Mr C and N throughout this final decision on Ks 
complaint.)
background
In December 2003, Mr C, K, and N all borrowed money from NatWest. Part of the borrowing 
was to refinance existing  loans  from other  lenders, and part was for property  purchase  and 
development.
At the same time, Mr C, K, and N each took out a single trigger swap (a form of IRHP) to 
support their NatWest  borrowing. Each swap had a ten year term, but the notional amounts 
and amortisation  profiles were different  to reflect the different amounts that Mr C, K and N 
had borrowed.  
The practical effect of the swaps and the loans was that Mr C, K and N paid interest on their 
borrowing at a variable  rate until the swaps were triggered  in late 2007.  After the swaps 
were triggered, the interest rate on the borrowing was effectively fixed at 7.28% plus margin.  
That meant the total borrowing costs  for Mr C, K and N increased substantially.
All three of the borrowers suffered cashflow  difficulties  from early 2008 onwards. There  is a 
dispute about the extent  and cause of those  difficulties. But everyone agrees that Mr C, K 
and N were not able to meet their full liabilities to NatWest under the loans and the swaps.
In late 2009 / early 2010, all three of the borrowers  accounts were transferred to NatWests  
Global Restructuring  Group (GRG). All three  of the swaps were subsequently broken   
incurring significant  break costs.  Properties  belonging to all three  of the borrowers  were  sold.
K and N both entered liquidation  in 2010. N has remained in liquidation ever since;  K was 
dissolved and then later restored to the register.
In 2014, NatWest looked at the sale of all three IRHPs under the review it had agreed  with 
its regulator, the FCA. It ultimately  concluded  that if it had given Mr C, K and N sufficient 
information in 2003:
Mr C would not have  taken out a hedging product in his own name.
K would not have  taken out a hedging  product either.
N would  still have  taken out a hedging  product, but it would have chosen a vanilla 
cap at rate of 6.4% instead of a single trigger swap.
NatWest offered basic redress to all three borrowers. For Mr C and K, that meant a refund 
of all the swap payments  they had made. For N, that meant a refund of the difference  
Ref: DRN66563972between the swap  payments  N actually made  and the amounts it would have paid for a 
vanilla cap.  
Mr C accepted NatWests  offer of basic redress on his own behalf. The liquidator of K and N 
accepted NatWests offer of basic redress on behalf  of the two companies, but in light of K 
and Ns outstanding debts NatWest did not pay any cash to the liquidator. Instead,  NatWest 
offset the compensation against  the companies  debts.  
Mr C, K and N all kept their rights  to make a claim for consequential  loss. They now bring 
that claim to the Financial  Ombudsman Service. In addition, the CMC would like us to set 
aside Ns acceptance  of the basic redress. It noted that the liquidator accepted  the basic  
redress before the CMCs  appointment.
The three complaints  were considered  by our adjudicators. They  thought NatWest had 
already done enough  to put matters right. The CMC did not agree, so the entire matter was 
referred to me. 
I issued provisional  decisions on these complaints in May 2019. I said:
In respect  of consequential loss, I need [to] look at whether  NatWests  failures 
actually caused  the losses the complainants  claim. And if they did, I also need  to ask 
whether its fair to hold the NatWest  responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need to 
ask whether NatWest  could reasonably  foresee that its failures would result in losses 
like these. In other  words, Id need to be satisfied that the losses werent too remote  
from the banks  failings.
loss of properties
The complainants  say that but for the IRHPs, NatWest would not have transferred 
their accounts to GRG. They also say that their properties would not have been sold. 
So, the complainants  say NatWest should put them in the position  they would have 
been in now if the properties had not been sold.
NatWest says the IRHP payments  werent  the only reason the accounts were 
transferred to GRG. NatWest says the transfer  was also because of serious cost 
overruns on one of the companies  projects,  large tax liabilities to HMRC, security  
shortfalls, and evidence that rental  income was being diverted elsewhere without the 
banks consent.
I consider that even  if the tax liabilities  had been  the only issue, it would still have 
been reasonable for NatWest to be very concerned about the risk of winding up 
petitions from HMRC. I note:
The CMC  says that as at October 2009 the cumulative IRHP redress  across 
the three complainants was around  £500,000   which it says would have 
substantially covered the HMRC debt of around  £650,000.
NatWest says its records show  Mr C told it in 2009 that the HMRC debt was 
originally £1.2 million, but he had been  able to negotiate it down  to £650,000. 
NatWest says that Mr C did not provide written confirmation of the size of the 
HMRC debt, but in any event it had no appetite to provide  funding for 
outstanding tax.
Ref: DRN66563973Shortly after the liquidators appointment, she produced statements of affairs  
for both K and N. In those  statements, she said debts to HMRC were about 
£590,000 for K and £55,000 for N. On the assumption Mr C had a small 
personal debt to HMRC,  those figures would indeed suggest £650,000  for the 
HMRC debt across the three complainants.
However, the liquidators  later statements said Ns debts  to HMRC were 
closer to £670,000  than £55,000.  She said the large increase was due to 
claims not being included in the Directors Statement of Affairs prepared  
ahead of the  creditors meeting. The unknown claims were in respect  of 
corporation tax and national insurance  contributions. If Ns HMRC debt was 
indeed £670,000, then NatWests estimate  of a tax bill of £1.2 million across  
the three complainants appears  correct.
Even if the CMC is right to say the HMRC debt was only £650,000 in 2009, the 
cumulative IRHP redress as at that point would not have completely covered the 
debt. The liquidators  later statements suggest  Mr C was mistaken about the effect of 
his negotiations with HMRC,  and that the HMRC debt was in fact in the region of 
£1.2 million.
I note the CMCs view that NatWest  would have funded the HMRC debt if there  had 
been no IRHP. But in the circumstances, I think that highly  unlikely. Mr C did not give 
NatWest written confirmation of the size of the complainants HMRC debt at any 
point, and it appears that he himself was confused about the size of that debt. It 
would be unusual for any lender to agree to fund a tax debt of unspecified size, and I 
do not believe NatWest  would have done  so here.  
The companies inability  to fund their tax debts had an indirect impact on Mr C, 
because he had given  personal guarantees to NatWest for the companies 
borrowing. 
I also consider that it was reasonable  for NatWest  to be concerned about what  it 
called the diversion  of rental income. The CMC notes that NatWest has not 
provided any detail  about that. But NatWest says it did not have any detail   the lack 
of visibility was the reason  for its concern. 
I have not considered the issues of cost overruns and security shortfalls in any detail, 
because I think the tax liability alone shows that the complainants would have 
suffered significant  financial  difficulties even  without the IRHPs. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that NatWests mistakes in respect of the 2003 IRHP 
sales caused the complainants 2009  financial difficulties. Clearly  the additional cash 
flow pressures of the IRHP did not help matters, but I am satisfied that the 
complainants would still have been  unable to meet their financial obligations in any 
event. I am therefore not persuaded that NatWests mistakes in respect of the IRHPs 
led to the sale of the complainants properties, and so I do not intend to make  any 
award in that respect. 
professional fees
Ref: DRN66563974The complainants  ask NatWest to cover the liquidators costs, various legal costs, 
and the costs associated with the support they received  from the CMC. Our 
adjudicators did not recommend that NatWest refund any additional  fees.
The CMC says it is concerned that there might be what could be called a house 
policy [in respect of professional fees]   if there is then that is contrary  to the duty of 
an ombudsman to consider each case on its merits.
On our website, we say:
The ombudsman service  is a free and informal alternative to going to court.  
We decide if the business has handled  your complaint fairly by looking at the 
facts of the case  not at how well you present your complaint. And we prefer  
to hear from you in your own words.
But everyone has the right to appoint someone  else to act on their behalf.  
Some consumers might ask their local Citizens Advice Bureau, or a friend, 
carer or relative, to help them with their complaint.
If, on the other hand, you decide to employ someone to present your case  for 
you  for example,  a lawyer or financial adviser  you will almost  certainly 
have to pay their costs yourself. This could  mean  you have to pay them part 
of any compensation  you get.
I acknowledge the CMCs concerns about a house  policy, but I see nothing  wrong  in 
our telling complainants that we are unlikely  to order a financial business  to 
reimburse professional  costs. We do order the reimbursement of those costs in some  
circumstances, but only where  after considering the evidence  in an individual case 
 we consider  that to be a fair and reasonable outcome.
Here, Ive carefully considered the CMCs  arguments as to why professional fees 
should be refunded. But I do not agree that such a refund would be fair and 
reasonable in these  complaints. I consider that Mr C and the liquidator  were both 
able to refer complaints to us and to NatWest without professional assistance.
In light of my conclusions about  the property sales, I consider it likely that K and N 
would have entered liquidation regardless of the existence of the IRHPs. So I dont 
think it would  be appropriate  for me to order the refund of those fees.
tax losses
So far as tax is concerned, the overall  effect of NatWests basic redress is to move  
profits from earlier accounting periods to a later one. In some  circumstances,  that can 
mean a complainant has to pay more tax overall  than they would otherwise have 
done  for example if they received tax relief on the costs relating to the IRHP at a 
lower rate of tax than that applied to the redress  payment.  But I have seen no 
evidence of that here.
If the complainants provide me with evidence to show that they have suffered actual 
tax losses, then I will consider making  an award.  Otherwise, I do not intend  to do so.
Mr C and his representatives  did not accept my provisional decision. Briefly,  they said:
Ref: DRN66563975I was wrong to assume Mr C might  have had an unpaid personal tax liability in 
October 2009; he did not.
In June 2017, NatWest acknowledged that Mr C had negotiated  HMRC  liability  
across K and N down  to £650,000. But in February  2018  the bank said it hadnt 
received enough evidence  to confirm that negotiation. The bank did not cite tax 
liability for K as a concern in its determination for Ks consequential  loss claim, and 
so they do not understand why I mentioned  it in my provisional decision.
K was dissolved in 2012, but restored by order  of the court  because  the bank  would 
not pay compensation to a dissolved entity.  The HMRC claim before restoration was 
around £600,000, but had increased by over £1 million after restoration.  The increase 
represents the failure to complete and satisfy the proposed agreement with HMRC.
It doesnt matter whether the cumulative IRHP redress would have fully covered the 
HMRC debt. What matters is whether  in the absence of the IRHPs   the bank 
would have continued to provide financial support to K and N. Looking at K alone (the 
entity with the most significant  bank  exposure),  if there  had been no IRHP K would 
only have breached its overdraft limit very briefly  in August 2008. But for the IRHPs,  
the security ratios  would  have been  in line with a typical  banking relationship of this 
type. Overall, it is therefore  much  more likely than not that NatWest would have 
continued to provide  banking support to Mr C, K and N.
The liquidator cannot reasonably have been expected  to have the specialist 
knowledge needed to pursue this matter.  N was unable  to do anything  without 
incurring costs, so it was appropriate for the liquidator to engage somebody on behalf 
of N. It would be a criminal  offence  for an accountant to provide that service, unless 
the accountant was also authorised as a claims management company.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I 
have come to the same  conclusions as I did in my provisional decision,  for broadly the same 
reasons. I now confirm those provisional findings  as final.
As I said in my provisional decision,  so far as consequential loss is concerned I need to look 
at whether NatWests  failures actually caused  the losses the complainants claim. And if they 
did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold the NatWest responsible  for the losses.  
loss of properties
To decide whether properties would  still have been sold if NatWest  had made  no errors, I 
need to take into account  all relevant circumstances. I am satisfied that Ks tax position  
and its debt to HMRC  is relevant to my consideration  of whether the IRHP issues  caused  
Ns financial  difficulties. Since Mr C had given personal guarantees for both K and N, I 
consider that Ns tax position is also relevant. 
The evidence as to Mr Cs companies  tax positions at the time they went  into liquidation is 
conflicting. I note:
Ref: DRN66563976Mr Cs recollection is that he negotiated  with HMRC, and his companies tax bills 
were significantly  reduced. 
NatWests internal records imply that, as at 2009, NatWest believed that Mr C had 
indeed been  able to negotiate  a significant  reduction to the companies tax bills. But 
NatWests records do not show that it had seen  any documentary evidence of that 
reduction.
Publicly available documents  (submitted by the liquidator to Companies House) show  
that the liquidators estimate of Ns tax liabilities increased substantially as a result  of 
claims not being included in the Directors Statement of Affairs prepared  ahead of 
the  creditors meeting.  The unknown claims were in respect of corporation tax and 
national insurance  contributions.
Mr Cs representatives have recently provided me with HMRCs  final  proof  of debt 
claim for K. They have  not provided  me with the equivalent document  for N, but they 
say the principles for N are similar. For both companies, they ask me to note that a 
significant element  of the claim is penalties and interest [and] the HMRC claim 
before liquidation is substantially lower  than the claim  after liquidation.  
Mr Cs representative has also asked me to note that if HMRC was prepared to 
negotiate the tax down  but the renegotiated amount was not in fact paid, then the 
original tax liability will remain  and further penalties  will accrue. They say that is 
what happened here.
I do not have full details of Ns situation, but I consider it fair for me to rely on the liquidators 
statement that her estimate for the tax liabilities increased because claims were  not initially  
included in the directors statement of affairs. I note that the liquidator  had the opportunity to 
respond to my provisional decision  and if she thought I had misunderstood or 
misrepresented her comments,  she could have said so.
Mr Cs representative is right to say that a significant proportion of HMRCs  claim in respect  
of K relates to penalties and interest.  But I dont think  thats  surprising. I can see from the 
documents that HMRCs  position is that K was underpaying  national  insurance as far back 
as the 2000/2001  tax year  before  the IRHP was sold,  and well before the IRHP  was 
triggered. 
In my view, the issue here is not whether  Mr C believed that he had negotiated  lower tax 
payments with HMRC.  The issue is whether those lower tax payments had in fact been 
negotiated. I have not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that that was the case.  
NatWest says it had no appetite  for funding K and Ns tax debts. I accept its evidence  on that 
point. On balance,  I dont think NatWest would have  provided funding  for the tax debt in any 
event. As I said in my provisional decision,  I think  it unlikely  that any bank would have 
agreed to fund a tax debt of an unspecified  amount.  Once the size of the debt had been 
established, I still think it is unlikely  NatWest would have agreed  to fund such  a significant 
liability.
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I consider that the complainants  2009  
financial difficulties were  not caused  by the IRHP. In the overall  circumstances, I still 
consider that it was reasonable for the bank to be concerned  about  the risk of winding up 
petitions from HMRC.
Ref: DRN66563977Overall, I am not persuaded that NatWests errors in respect of the IRHP caused the loss of 
Ks properties. 
professional fees
I have carefully considered the CMCs further  points about professional  fees. Having done 
so, I remain satisfied that the liquidator  could have brought  this complaint to our service 
herself. I do not agree that she needed specialist knowledge to do so. Whilst there are (now) 
restrictions on offering claims management services  to the public, those restrictions  do not 
prevent liquidators  from carrying out their duties. 
A director of a solvent  company is entitled  to act on that companys behalf in bringing  a 
complaint to our service. Similarly, a liquidator  of a company may bring  a complaint to our 
service on behalf of that company, regardless of whether the liquidator  is herself  authorised 
to act as a CMC. 
I acknowledge that anything a liquidator  does in relation to a company in liquidation will incur 
fees. But I dont  think that automatically  means  it would be fair for me to require NatWest to 
reimburse those fees. 
In this particular  case, for the reasons I gave  in my provisional decision I do not uphold Ks 
complaint about  consequential loss. I do not think it would be fair for me to order  NatWest to 
reimburse the liquidators fees for pursuing a complaint that did not succeed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National  Westminster Bank 
Plc. I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6656397