K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly charged him two excess payments for 
his claim for malicious damage to his property under his landlord insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. Mr M 
let out a property  which  was damaged by tenants.  He said eggs had been thrown at the 
walls, kitchen cabinets smashed and the upstairs  bedroom and attic used to grow  cannabis. 
He said there were massive holes  in the bedroom  ceilings. Mr M notified the police and AXA.
AXA sent a loss adjuster to check the damage and said it identified  three  areas of damage:
1. Damage to rooms  and ceiling caused  by cannabis cultivation, including  water damage.
2. Damage to the decoration in the lounge  from eggs  being thrown at the walls.
3. Damage to the kitchen, viz., smashed oven door, ripped flooring, damage to kitchen units.
AXA said it decided to treat this as two incidents; the kitchen damage, and all other damage,  
so that two, rather than three excesses would apply.  AXA said Mr Ms policy  has a £1,000 
excess for malicious damage  by tenants  and so it charged him £2,000. It apologised  to Mr M 
for incorrectly stating the excess at the start of his claim and paid him £100 compensation.
 
Mr M complained about the second  excess to AXA saying  it had deliberately separated the 
incident in order  not to pay his full claim. His adviser  said the policy  describes Excess  as 
The amount  you pay for one incident under each  section  of your policy and is deducted from 
your claim settlement'. The adviser said incident isnt defined in the policy,  but his is a 
single claim arising from one set of circumstances and only one excess should be applied.
AXA responded that its loss adjuster had found that the damage  occurred  in different rooms 
on different occasions.  It said there was damage  to rooms where cannabis  plants had been  
grown and separate and unrelated damage to the kitchen. AXA said this meant a second  
excess was payable under the policy. 
my provisional findings and the parties responses
The only issue I have to decide is whether it was fair for AXA to apply two excesses to Mr 
Ms claim, or not. In order to do this Ive looked  carefully at the details of Mr Ms claim and 
the terms of the policy.
I said that Mr Ms policy covers malicious  damage   and AXA have accepted all of his claim 
under this section.  But I didnt  think this meant  the damage had to be related to a single 
incident and the term incident isnt defined  in the policy. I think  its reasonable to say that an 
incident is an event,  or an instance  of something occurring. 
I said that generally where theres extensive damage to a property or where theres no 
evidence to clearly  indicate  when the damage  was caused, its reasonable for the insurer  to 
treat this as one claim and apply one excess.  However, if theres clear evidence  to show  that 
damage occurred  at different times, then its reasonable  for an insurer to treat these as 
separate claims and apply  an excess to each.
Ref: DRN60204012AXA provided photos in support of its finding that eggs have been thrown at some walls and 
others were  damaged  by an escape of water from cannabis cultivation. It also described 
smashed kitchen units, oven door,  and kitchen flooring ripped up. I thought these  were  
different types  and causes of damage and I understood why AXA treated them separately.
I thought that cannabis  cultivation was likely to have started very soon after the property was 
let and the associated damage  occurred at the start of the tenancy. I didnt think  it possible 
that the tenants made the extensive damage  to the kitchen  at the same time as they were  
breaking through ceilings to set up the cannabis cultivation. The kitchen is situated in a 
different part of the house from the main cannabis cultivation and I think  the damage to the 
kitchen is likely to have  happened at a different time. And this damage doesnt appear to 
assist with the cannabis cultivation and so I think it happened for a different reason.
 
I thought that AXA had shown theres  been  two main incidents  - damage  caused by water  
from the cannabis  cultivation and damage  to the kitchen.  I thought AXA acted in accordance 
with the policy in applying two excesses  to Mr Ms claim  and had treated him fairly.  I thought  
the £100 compensation AXA paid Mr M for initially giving him incorrect information about  the 
excess is fair. 
Mr M said with regard  to the damage  to the kitchen and the egg stains  on the walls, this 
must have  occurred just before the tenants  left. He said he called his tenants  to say he 
would visit the property and they gave an excuse to postpone the visit for three days. He 
said when he visited and discovered the damage  the egg stains  were still fresh on the walls. 
Mr M said whilst  awaiting  the visit the tenants must have got angry  about  how much they 
were about  to lose and that he was soon to discover what  they were  up to and started 
smashing and wrecking the place. Mr M provided photos of the property before it was let.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have looked at Mr Ms photos, but these 
were taken before the property was let and so dont show  any of the damage.
Having reconsidered  Mr Ms complaint and the evidence, I remain  of the view that it was fair 
for AXA to charge Mr M a second excess in relation to his claim. I realise this will be a 
disappointment to Mr M, but I hope he will understand the reasons I have reached this view.
From the evidence Ive seen I still think there  were at least two distinct  types  of damage,  with 
different causes. The main damage was due to cannabis cultivation which caused the 
diversion of water through ceilings and down  walls  within  Mr Ms property. This appears to 
be fairly typical of what would be expected from this operation. However, the damage to his 
kitchen isnt. The smashed oven door and breaking  of the kitchen units  and flooring arent 
required for cannabis  cultivation and appear to be due to vandalism. I think  it likely this 
occurred just before the tenants  left, when Mr M told them  he was about to visit. 
In his response to my provisional decision Mr M said some  of the damage, including  to the 
kitchen and the eggs thrown at the walls,  had occurred just before he visited his property. He 
thought this was because  the tenants realised  what they were about to lose and, in their 
anger, started  throwing  things about and smashing the place up. 
Ref: DRN60204013I think it quite likely  the tenants were using the kitchen until they disappeared, and I agree 
with Mr M that realising the end of their enterprise was near, they vandalised parts  of the 
property. Mr Ms view about  this damage  corresponds with my thoughts in the provisional 
decision that the damage to the kitchen  is distinct from that due to cannabis  cultivation.
Since I am still of the view that damage was due to separate incidents within separate  parts 
of Mr Ms property,  I think AXA acted within the terms of the policy  in applying two excesses 
to Mr Ms claim and has treated  him fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given here it is my final decision  that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6020401