K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how Barclays Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has dealt with a 
disputed transaction.
background
Mr M makes a number of complains about  the products and service  he received from a gas 
engineer at his home in Spain. In summary he says he was overcharged for the supply  of 
carbon monoxide  detectors and that one wasnt needed. He also says the service  he 
received from the engineer wasnt as described.  Mr M paid approximately  £218  for the 
detectors and for the visit and would  like the money  refunded under either the chargeback 
scheme or under S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974(CCA).
Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and says S75 doesnt apply as the individual  
items Mr M bought were under £100. It says Mr M received the service he paid for and so he 
didnt have any chargeback rights. Barclaycard paid Mr M £170 as a gesture of goodwill but 
says it cant justify paying Mr M the full amount he paid.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold  it. The investigator 
thought S75 didnt apply as each item bought was under £100. The investigator  explained  
there were no automatic chargeback rights and that Mr M paid what  was agreed  and that 
Barclaycards decision  not to make a chargeback  was reasonable. 
Mr M doesnt accept that view and doesnt  accept he agreed a price or that he received the 
service he was expecting.  He maintains  there were issues with the overcharging of the 
detectors and he has been caused  frustration and inconvenience by whats  taken place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened which  I can see has resulted in him 
closing his Barclaycard account.
As Mr M knows  S75 CCA provides protection for items or services bought between £100  
and £30,000.  Im satisfied  that having  looked  at the receipt provided  by Mr M that the 
individual items and service he paid for were all under £100. So in those circumstances I 
dont think Mr M is entitled to any protection under S75 and I think Barclaycard acted fairly 
and reasonably by also coming to that conclusion.
The investigator has explained that a chargeback  unlike S75 is not a legal protection  but a 
scheme run by the card providers. We would normally expect a business to raise a 
chargeback unless it reasonably concluded there would be little prospect of success.
So I have  to decide here if Barclaycard acted  fairly  by concluding that there was no realistic  
prospect of success.  I think  it highly likely that if a chargeback  was made  then it would have 
been defended and evidence provided that the gas engineer had attended Mr Ms property 
and supplied  the detectors. I accept there would have been  a dispute over the necessity of 
one of them and the quality of the service provided. But I think  overall Barclaycard fairly and 
reasonably took the view that a chargeback would not succeed in those circumstances and 
that Mr M would not have  received all of his money  back in any event as he had received  
Ref: DRN69905752part of what he asked  for. I also think that the chargeback scheme is not designed  to deal 
with this type of dispute.
 
I can see that Barclaycard  has paid Mr M £170 which  I think  is an amount  greater,  for the 
reasons Ive explained, than Mr M would have received  even if the chargeback had 
succeeded in part in any event. So I think Barclaycard has acted fairly by making  that 
payment in circumstances  where I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I appreciate Mr M will remain  unhappy with my decision  but I think  that brings an end to what 
we in trying  to sort out this dispute informally can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6990575