K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, lent to
him in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
28 October 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought that Satsuma shouldnt  have  given Mr N 
loans three  to eight  and what I intended to direct  it to do to put matters right.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr N agreed with my provisional  decision.  We didnt receive a response from Satsuma.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr N nor Satsuma  has provided me with anything  further on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, I dont  think Satsuma should  have  given Mr N loans three  to eight and I think  it 
should put matters right as set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN61589092my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part. I now require Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans  to:
 
refund  all interest and charges Mr N paid on loans three to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital  sum still due in relation to loan eight and 
pay Mr N the balance,  if any. If there remains an outstanding balance  owed to 
Satsuma in relation  to loan eight, Satsuma  should  agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr N.
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Ns credit  file;
the number  of loans  taken from loan four onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to seven should be removed 
from Mr Ns credit  file. Entries  about loan eight should be removed once  the capital 
owing on that loan has been  repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61589093extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr N complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Satsuma gave  Mr N eight  instalment loans between November 2013 and November 2018. 
Repayment of the loans was intended to be over periods ranging from 26 weeks to 12 months.  Mr N 
repaid loans  one to seven  but loan eight remains  outstanding. A summary of Mr Ns borrowing with 
Satsuma is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedterm at outset date repaid
113 November 2013 300 26 weeks 21 November 2013
210 February 2014 250 26 weeks 10 March  2016
31 June 2016 600 52 weeks 26 September 2016
426 October 2016 1,100 52 weeks 3 March 2017
55 June 2017 1,100 12 months 8 January 2018
617 August 2017 100 12 months 28 August 2018
722 August 2017 1,100 11 months 1 October 2018
89 November 2018 300 12 months
Mr N says that he couldnt afford to repay the loans. He wants compensation, interest and certain 
information removed  from his credit file.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Ns complaint. He said that Satsuma shouldnt  have given Mr 
N loans four to seven.  He set out what Satsuma should do to put matters right.
Satsuma didnt agree  with the adjudicator. It said:
The adjudicator had only considered  the number of loans.
Sustained or sequential borrowing doesnt show, in itself, that the customer is 
persistently reliant  on borrowing.
It carries out checks on every loan application.
It looks  at the sustainability of the loan at the time it carries out income and 
expenditure checks.
The adjudicator hadnt considered the individual circumstances here.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN61589094Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N could repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different  things, such  as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should  fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether  Mr N could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance and later the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular, the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender should  
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing  
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
I dont think that Satsuma was wrong  to give Mr N loans one and two. Given  the repayments, what 
was apparent about Mr Ns circumstances  at the time and his history with Satsuma, I dont think it 
wouldve been  proportionate for Satsuma to ask Mr N for the amount of information needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mr N provided or the 
information Satsuma shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for 
Satsuma to start verifying what Mr N said about his financial position before loans one and two.
I dont think that Satsuma should have given  Mr N loan three.  I think that by loan three,  
Mr N had shown signs that he was struggling  to manage his money. Mr N had taken  considerably  
longer than initially planned to repay loan two. I noted that in one exchange  between Mr N and 
Satsuma, Mr N says that he had forgotten about the loan. Before  loan three, Satsuma was aware 
that Mr N hadnt repaid  loan two as planned. In those circumstances,  I think Satsuma  ought to have 
realised it was unlikely that Mr N wouldve been able to repay further loans in a sustainable  way.
Ref: DRN61589095Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ns lending  history with Satsuma, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which  Satsuma should reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful  and so shouldnt have  provided any further loans. Given the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ns case, I think that this point  was reached by loan four. By loan four, 
Mr Ns overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he had become reliant on short-term  loans. Mr N 
had been borrowing  from Satsuma for almost three years. And the amount he wanted to borrow 
increased considerably. Loans four, five and seven were for almost four times what hed initially 
borrowed. And loans six and seven were taken out before hed repaid what  he already owed to 
Satsuma.
Mr N wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma. Loan eight was taken out five 
years after Mr Ns first loan with Satsuma. Mr N had paid large mounts of interest to, in effect, service 
an intermittent  debt to Satsuma over an extended period.
I think that Mr N lost out because Satsuma  continued  to provide borrowing from loan four onwards 
because these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.  And the number of 
loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ns ability  to access mainstream credit and 
so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost  loans.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint  about loans three to
eight.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct Satsuma to do
refund all interest and charges Mr N paid on loans  three  to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct  from the refund  above any capital sum still due in relation to loan eight and pay Mr 
N the balance, if any. If there remains  an outstanding balance owed to Satsuma in relation 
to loan eight, Satsuma  should agree an affordable repayment  plan with Mr N.
remove any negative information about loan three from Mr Ns credit file;
the number of loans  taken from loan four onwards means  any information  recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans four to seven should  be removed from Mr Ns 
credit file. Entries about loan eight  should be removed once the capital  owing on that loan 
has been  repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give Mr 
N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint  
in part and direct Provident  Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans,  to put things right as 
indicated above.
Ref: DRN6158909