K820x#14Complaint
Mr S, represented by Mrs S, complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase 
agreement (HPA) with Advantage Finance  Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr S initially 
wanted the car to be repaired at no cost to him but has since decided he wants  to reject  the 
car.
Background
Mr S entered into HPA with Advantage in March  2019 to acquire a used car. At the time of 
acquisition the car was eight years old and had been  driven over 112,000  miles.  
Within six weeks of acquisition the car broke  down  and Mr S says the timing belt had 
snapped. He says that his warranty wouldnt cover the cost of the repair  and that the dealer 
had said the manufacturers recommended replacement interval for the timing belt was 
120,000 miles or ten years and his car hadnt  reached either of these milestones.
Advantage says that Mr S contacted it on 15 May 2019 to say that on 12 May the timing  belt 
on his car had snapped and the car needed  to be recovered. It says it explained to Mr S that 
it would  need  an independent inspection to be carried out, at its cost,  to establish if there 
was a fault with the timing belt that was present at the point of supply. 
The inspection took place on 21 May.  The report concludes that there was a failure of the 
timing belt and says that the replacement intervals  for a timing  belt were only 
recommendations. It says a timing belt can fail at any time and that this part wears over time. 
It says that assuming there were  no reports of issues prior to the timing  belt failure its 
conclusion was that the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply  and that the most likely 
cause of failure was age-related in-service deterioration rather  than a defect. 
Based on the results  of the inspection report, Advantage didnt accept it had any liability  to 
pay for the repairs to Mr S car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought  it more  likely than not that the 
failure occurred due to wear and tear and not because of an underlying  defect. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he only had the car for five 
weeks before the issue arose.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S acquired a used  car through a HPA with Advantage. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015, Advantage can be held liable if the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car. In this case Mr S acquired  a car that was eight years old and had 
been driven more  than 112,000 miles.
When acquiring a used car it is expected  that there will be some wear and tear. Mr S 
acquired a car with a mileage of over 112,000 and so it is reasonable that he would expect 
wear and tear commensurate with the cars  age and mileage. So I accept he wouldnt be 
Ref: DRN61226942expecting the car to break down within a few weeks, but it is possible that issues can arise 
with used cars shortly  after acquisition even if faults  arent present at the point of supply. 
Mr S car broke down a few weeks after acquisition and it was said that the timing belt had 
snapped. Given when  the issue arose, the onus was on Advantage to show that the issue 
wasnt due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply.  Advantage 
arranged for an independent inspection  to be carried out at its cost which I find reasonable.
For me to uphold this complaint and say that Mr S should be allowed to reject  the car or 
have the repairs  carried out at no cost to him, I have to be satisfied that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case the inspection report concluded that 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. It explained that the timing belt can 
snap at any time and said the most  likely cause was age-related  in-service  deterioration 
rather than a manufacturing defect. 
I note the comments made  about the intervals  for replacing a timing  belt, however I do not 
find that this is sufficient to say that the timing belt was faulty and given  the information the 
inspection report,  I find it more likely than no that the timing belt failed due to wear and tear. I 
note the car had passed an MOT in January 2019 with no advisories.
While I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, I find that the issue  with the timing  belt 
wasnt due to a fault that was present at the point of supply. Although the timing belt failed 
shortly after acquisition, Mr S was able to drive around six weeks before the issue  arose and 
the inspection  report explained this issue can happen at anytime. I have put weight on the 
details included in the inspection report and on balance I do not find that based on the 
evidence provided  I have enough  to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6122694