K820x#14complaint
S a limited  company complains Barclays Bank UK PLC removed  funds from its accounts  and 
then closed its accounts without notice or an explanation.
background
S held five accounts with Barclays with a credit  balance of over £100,000. In November 
2017, Ss director Mr H discovered the funds had been removed  from the accounts. Barclays 
told Mr H the funds  were removed for operational reasons.
Mr H thought Barclays had given S misleading information which led it to assume  issues  with 
Barclays systems  had caused the problem. Mr H said it also mislead S when it said the 
funds would be returned as quick as they could.
S issued  court proceedings against Barclays. Barclays defended the proceedings on the 
basis they were following  their regulatory  obligations. Barclays provided the reasons for its 
actions and the proceedings were resolved by agreement.
The funds were returned to S in late December. The bank then gave immediate  notice to 
close the accounts.
S said Barclays acted unfairly when  it decided to close the account and when it closed the 
account without  giving  notice.
The accounts were  also placed into overdraft and Mr H found it distressing that he received  
messages from Barclays telling him the accounts  were overdrawn.
S complained to the bank.  The bank  acknowledged  the inconvenience  it caused and said it 
was unable to confirm why the closure  occurred.
S complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint. She thought 
Barclays was entitled to review Ss accounts  and it hadnt caused  any unnecessary delay. 
So although  this was inconvenient  to S, Barclays did nothing wrong.
S didnt  agree. It said it had been misled  by Barclays as to the reason  for the funds being  
removed and this had caused  it to go to court and incur costs.  S was still unhappy Barclays  
had closed the accounts with immediate effect and it couldnt be satisfied the bank had the 
right to close its accounts.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
Ref: DRN60251402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusions as the investigator and I will not be upholding the complaint.
Removal of funds
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Ss accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses.  Financial institutions  must establish 
the purpose and intended  nature  of a business  as well as the origin of funds, and there may 
be penalties if they dont. This applies  to both new and existing relationships.  These 
obligations override  all other obligations.
Ss representative has said Barclays shouldnt have removed the funds from the accounts or 
put the accounts in overdraft. The removal of the funds and putting the account in overdraft  
were an internal process which  the bank carried out in order  to comply  with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont police  
their internal  processes or how they operate generally. Thats  the job of the Financial  
Conduct Authority.
I am satisfied Barclays did not cause  any unnecessary delay whilst it reviewed Ss accounts. 
So, although  I understand not having  access to its money was inconvenient for S, the bank 
did nothing wrong  and returned the funds as soon  as it was possible to do so.
Reasons given  by Barclays
Barclays have said the reason for the removal of the funds was operational. S has said this 
reason is misleading  and contrary  to the FCA handbook. Our investigator said Barclays is 
not obliged to give reasons for the removal of the funds.
Mr H has suggested that had S been told the reason  for the removal of funds then S 
wouldnt have issued  proceedings against Barclays and incurred costs.  I have considered  
whether giving a reason as operational would  prompt S to issue  proceedings. After  
consideration I dont  think  it would have  made  a difference how the issue  was described. 
I think the point  here is the funds were removed  from the accounts  and the proceedings 
were issued to force  Barclays  to produce  the funds. It was Ss choice whether it issued legal 
proceedings and therefore Barclays are not liable for the costs incurred by S. Barclays  also 
isnt obliged to provide  reasons for its review  so cant say it has done anything  wrong  by 
not providing Mr H this information
Looking at the evidence I dont think the reason given by Barclays made S decide whether to 
pursue legal action or not. I note in the statement of claim S said it required proof of relevant 
suspicion therefore I am satisfied S was not in fact influenced to issue  legal proceedings by 
the original reasons given by the bank.
Closure of the accounts
After the account  review  Barclays told Mr H on the phone it was closing Ss accounts  with 
immediate effect. Mr H said Barclays have  not given a reason to close  the account with 
Ref: DRN60251403immediate effect. It isnt unusual for a bank to review  accounts held with it and decide who to 
continue offering facilities to  this is a commercial decision banks are entitled to make.  
While I appreciate this matter has caused Mr H frustration, Barclays  has shown me its acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts  when  deciding to close them.  I have 
looked at the terms and conditions of the account and Barclays does have the option of 
closing an account  with immediate effect  under  15.3 and 15.5.  Whilst Mr H mayve expected 
to be given the reasons for the closure, Barclays isnt required to give Mr H a specific  reason 
for closing  the accounts. 
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions and the evidence  provided I am satisfied Barclays  
were able to close the account with immediate effect 
I appreciate the closure of the accounts  caused  S to have to find somewhere to deposit  its 
funds at very short notice  but looking at the evidence I see it was able to do this without too 
much trouble.
So, whilst I acknowledge  Ss frustration  with the situation relating to its accounts. And the 
accounts being closed impacted S, I dont think Barclays failed  to properly follow  its own 
procedures and it did not cause a delay.  So, Im not going to ask Barclays  to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6025140