K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Mrs F borrowed some money to buy some goods from a high street  store. At the 
same time she also took out PPI designed to protect her loan payments  in the event she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost less than £5 a month.  And according to FICLs records  it appears Mrs F only 
made one PPI payment.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that the evidence showed  Mrs F 
chose to take out PPI and there was nothing about  her circumstances to indicate  PPI was 
inappropriate for her.
Mrs F, through  her representative, disagrees so the complaint  comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think FICL made it clear that Mrs F didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand if she cant remember this.
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Fs loan agreement. I can see here that to take out PPI 
Mrs F needed to sign a separate section to do so  a separate signature from the main  
loan agreement itself.  It said only sign it you want cover  and Mrs F has signed  this 
section. Im therefore satisfied she chose  and agreed to take out PPI knowing she didnt 
have to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F  Ive seen no evidence  to persuade me that it 
did - so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs F 
got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
Ive also thought about Mrs Fs existing means including her sick pay. But these things 
dont change my decision.  So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN66503062To conclude  it would appear  that Mrs Fs credit  agreement  had a 12 month deferral period 
before payments were due to start.  It may well be that Mrs F repaid the whole amount early 
which might  account for the fact FICLs records only show she paid one PPI premium. But 
regardless of this, I dont  think Mrs F wouldve been put off taking out PPI if FICL had done 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6650306