K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP)  policy taken out in 2005 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
them the policy. 
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which can be made up of three  different elements   a 
PPI policy, life cover and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP 
can be added or taken out as the consumer  wishes.  
The TMPP policy Mr and Mrs H took out included all three elements of cover.
Our adjudicators looked into the sale of the PPI and the life and CIC separately. They  felt 
that none of the parts  of the policy  were  mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint 
has been passed to me. In this decision I have  considered all of the elements of Mr and Mrs 
Hs TMPP policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Obviously the TMPP  was sold quite a long time ago. So we asked Halifax for all the records 
it still held. Unfortunately, some of the sale paperwork  is no longer available. But Ive still 
been able to make my decision, based on what Halifax  has given us along with what  I know 
about the sales process for this type of policy at the time. 
 
I can see from Halifaxs computerised records that Mr and Mrs H were  asked a number of 
questions about  their financial situation,  jobs and health which also suggests to me they 
were discussing  this type of cover  with a Halifax adviser.
I accept its possible Mr and Mrs H may not remember exactly how the sale happened after 
such a long time. But from what Ive seen theres good evidence  that they discussed the PPI, 
life and CIC cover with the Halifax representative and that they decided  it was something 
they wanted to have.  And based on what we know about how Halifax sold these policies, I 
think they wouldve  been made  aware that it wasnt something they had to have. 
So I think on balance theres  enough  to suggest that Mr and Mrs H agreed to all three  
elements of the TMPP and specifically, wanted to protect their mortgage.
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs H as part of an advised sale.  This 
means it had a duty to ensure the cover  was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  
and based on what Ive seen I think it was.
Ref: DRN60875482I say this because  Mr and Mrs H seem  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. Ive also seen that Mr and 
Mrs H were advised to take out a level term assurance policy and not a decreasing  term 
assurance policy, for their full mortgage amount. And as their mortgage  was arranged on an 
interest only basis  I think they wouldve needed the full sum assured  in case either party 
died during the life of the mortgage. And as this was a joint mortgage, this policy  wouldve 
helped to repay their mortgage commitment if one party died. So there was clearly  a use for 
the life cover. 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was a significant  and long-term financial commitment for them  and 
was secured against their home.  The consequences  of them not being  able make  the 
repayments could  have been  serious. The critical illness cover was designed to provide 
them with a lump  sum in the event one or both of them became seriously  ill during  the life of 
the policy. The PPI policy, on the other hand, was designed to pay them  a monthly benefit 
for up to 12 months to help them keep up their repayments if one or both of them were made 
redundant or were too sick to work.  
Mr and Mrs H told us they already had a life and critical illness policy  in place and that they 
were both entitled to employer  benefits of at least six months if they werent  able to work. So 
they say they didnt  have  a need  for any of the cover. We asked  Mr and Mrs H for evidence 
of the other insurance policy they had in place, but theyve not been able to provide any 
detail about this policy or how much  it covered them for. So I havent  been able to place as 
much weight on this as they would possibly have liked me to.
In any event the TMPP policy was taken out to cover their mortgage borrowing and the 
benefits the policy provided wouldve helped  them  keep up with their mortgage repayments. 
And while I think Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay wouldve been useful for them  had they been too 
sick to work, the PPI element  of this policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and this 
would be in addition  to their sick pay, and potentially for longer. And in the event either Mr or 
Mrs H were diagnosed  with a critical illness, the CIC element of the policy wouldve paid out 
a lump sum to help them with their general  living costs  or to cover medical expenses  if 
necessary.   
So overall, I think all the elements  of the TMPP cover they bought with their mortgage was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs H feel strongly  about  this and theyve commented on not having a 
need for the policy.   But given what Ive seen, I dont agree. 
Having carefully considered this case,  I think Mr and Mrs H had the opportunity  to discuss 
the TMPP cover and to tailor it to suit their needs of the time. Ultimately,  I think  they probably 
agreed to the cover  because it was something  they thought would be useful to have. It 
follows that I dont  think the TMPP cover  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Ref: DRN60875483Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6087548