K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when  he raised some 
disputed transactions.   
background
When Mr O was alerted to some unusual  transactions on his account by Santander,  he 
responded straight away to say that it was not him making them.   Whilst most of the 
transactions did not debit the account,  one  for £576  did.
Mr O told Santander that he did not recognise  nor authorise this transactions but despite 
this, his claim was rejected twice.  After the third time of asking Santander to consider his 
complaint, it was upheld  and the money was refunded to him.
The transaction debited Mr Os account  on 5th December and was refunded  on 28th 
December.
When Mr O complained about the service, Santander upheld his complaint.  It accepted  that 
the process should not have taken  so long and accepted that it had let him down.  It offered 
Mr O £175 by way of an apology.
But Mr O did not accept  that offer and came to this service.  He said,  at the very least, he 
should be offered  the sum of £576  for the time he had spent in chasing Santander and 
gathering evidence from the police in order in support his claim.   He said the account had 
held his clients money and he was concerned that more could have been lost over the 
holiday period.
Our adjudicator did not think she could tell Santander to do anymore so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen and heard,  
I cannot fairly ask Santander to do anymore.
Despite Santander  alerting Mr O to these transactions in the first place, it seems unfair that 
he was then denied  a refund for a period  of three  weeks.  So,  I can understand why he is 
upset and frustrated  by the way he was dealt with.
To be told by the third adviser that this simply was down to the inexperience of the previous 
advisers, only compounded the situation.
That said,  the money was returned to Mr O and a compensation  offer was also made.
Mr O tells us that he was concerned about the money left in the account and the fact that 
more could have  been susceptible to fraudsters.  I understand his concern  but I cannot 
make an award on what might have happened.  
Ref: DRN64652422Mr O also says he spent time trying to collect evidence  but I can see from the telephone 
calls that the decision  to refund the transaction came as a result  of the investigation carried 
out by Santander itself  not as the result of Mr O providing it with compelling  evidence.
My role is to look at how Santander  dealt with Mr Os complaint and whether it dealt with it 
fairly.  And  I think it did.
It accepted it could have done  more and apologised for its service.  And the level of award  
offered, in my view, reflects what this service would normally award in cases such  as this.  
So, in the circumstances, I will not be asking Santander to increase the offer of £175  and I 
remind Mr O that the offer is still available if he would now like to accept it.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr O £175 for the poor service 
offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6465242