K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd hasnt  upheld his section 75 claim under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of an oven that he purchased.  
background
Mr T bought  an oven from a wholesale public sale event.  Mr T doesnt think  the item should 
have been described as Grade A. He says that not only was the item aesthetically 
damaged but the item also trips his house  electrics. He believes the product was 
misrepresented to him and that the extent of the damage wasnt  visible to him at the time of 
purchase. 
As NewDay didnt uphold his section 75 claim for a refund,  the matter was referred to our 
service. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  She felt that she was unable  to uphold Mr Ts 
claim. She thought that just because the item wasnt aesthetically  perfect, it didnt mean  that 
the product was of unsatisfactory quality when he bought it.
Unhappy with this outcome,  the complaint has now been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too am unable to uphold  this complaint 
for reasons already  expressed by the adjudicator.
Ive carefully considered  the description  of Grade  A items from the wholesale event as I 
understand the oven Mr T purchased was described as such.  Mr T knew  there could be 
aesthetic damage to the product. Mr T was aware of some visible  damage  to the oven prior 
to purchase. I acknowledge  though  that he may not have seen all of the damage at the point 
of sale if some was hidden under the wrapping of the item. 
Mr T says that when he initially contacted the company about the oven he had plugged it in 
and turned it on. But he hadnt used the oven at this point. Just like the adjudicator Ive not 
seen evidence that the oven was of unsatisfactory quality when it was purchased. There  has 
been no evidence  to show that a fault actually exists  with the item, or that a fault was 
underlying in the item when it was sold.
Overall I dont think I can uphold this claim based on the evidence  which  has been presented 
to our service. I cant be certain  a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred.
I note Mr T is unhappy with the length  of time NewDay took to investigate his complaint. On 
balance I think the £40 compensation already paid to Mr T by NewDay is fair in the 
circumstances. This recognises  any customer service failings and I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN62982932Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6298293