K822xcomplaint
Miss M is unhappy because Provident Personal  Credit Limited  (Provident) told a third party  
about her loan without her permission.  
background 
Miss M has two loans with Provident. She took out the second loan for £500  because she 
was in financial difficulty. Miss M didnt want anyone to know  about this loan. 
Miss M arranged with Provident  that the payments towards the second loan would be 
collected from her home address. She arranged for payments for the first loan to be 
collected from her partners familys address. But when Provident collected  payment for this 
loan from this address,  it disclosed  information  about Miss Ms second loan.
Miss M complained to Provident. She said she didnt want anyone to know about  the second  
loan. She said this caused  her great  embarrassment and family arguments.  
Provident accepted itd made a mistake  and apologised  to Miss M. It explained how the 
mistake happened  and took £200  off the total she owed on her second loan. This reduced 
the outstanding balance  at the time from £931 to £731. 
Miss M was unhappy with Providents  payment and asked us to consider her complaint.  She 
didnt feel £200  was enough to put right Providents  mistake. Miss M also wanted the £200 to 
be taken off the £500 shed borrowed, rather than the total amount she owed. She thought 
this was fairer  as it meant shed pay less overall  interest on the second loan.      
Our investigator recognised that Providents mistake caused  Miss M much  upset  and 
embarrassment. But he said £200 was a fair amount to pay. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it.
Provident accepts  that it was responsible  for wrongly telling people about Miss Ms loan. So 
Ive looked at the impact of that mistake and whether  Providents  payment of £200 is 
enough. 
I can understand why Miss M feels so upset  about  what happened.  She took specific steps 
to make sure people didnt know shed taken out a second loan. So Providents  mistake not 
only caused Miss M embarrassment,  she was also put in a difficult position with her partners 
family.  
Provident apologised to Miss M for its mistake  and explained how it happened.  It also 
assured her it wont happen  again. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that information  about 
Miss Ms second loan was wrongly disclosed more widely.
With that in mind, I think Providents payment  of £200 is a fair reflection  of the trouble and 
upset its mistakes caused her. In my experience  this is in line with awards weve made  in 
similar cases. 
Ref: DRN61000012The amount  of money Miss M borrowed is not in dispute. And while hugely upsetting for her, 
Providents mistake had no direct financial impact  on the amount she owed.  So I think 
Provident acted  fairly  in taking the £200  off the total amount Miss M owed rather than off the 
amount she borrowed.   
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
 
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6100001