K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Cruickshank Motors  Limited  (Sytner) misrepresented the hire purchase  
agreement through  which  he acquired a motor vehicle. He wants  the interest on the 
agreement to be cancelled.
background
Mr B tells us that in January  2018 he took out a hire purchase agreement, arranged by 
Sytner, in relation to a vehicle he intended to use in connection with his business. He says 
the agreement  was financed by a company  Ill refer to as BH. Mr B states that he was told 
by Sytner that the interest on the agreement would be equally spread throughout the whole 
five year duration of the agreement. But he says when he later asked BH for an early 
settlement figure he found that the interest  was front  loaded.  And this meant  that most of 
the early payments on the agreement were  going  towards interest and not repaying  the 
capital sum.  
Sytner told us that Mr B had been  provided  with the regulatory requirement document which  
it said set out the key features of the finance agreement. It said Mr B had accepted these  
and signed the agreement.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said Mr B had 
been given the finance agreement well before  signing it and had time to read through and 
understand the agreement. She felt that Mr B had signed the agreement indicating  he 
understood the relevant  terms. And that the interest  rate had been set out correctly.
Mr B didnt agree and said hed been  told lies about  the way the interest would be 
calculated. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans  been asked 
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr B has experienced the disappointment and frustration  of finding that the 
settlement figure to end the agreement  is much higher than he thought. He attributes this to 
a misrepresentation  he alleges was made by Sytner as to how interest would be applied.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. A misrepresentation  is a false  
statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter  an agreement  and as a result  of the 
misrepresentation to suffer a loss. 
Sytner acted as a credit  broker in this agreement. That is to say it introduced  the borrower 
(Mr B) to the supplier of finance (BH). And this service is able to consider  complaints against 
a credit broker where misrepresentation is alleged in relation to its activities in brokering a 
financial agreement.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required to 
resolve disputes of fact on the balance of probabilities. And that includes considering  
documentary information as well as what the parties  tell me. 
Ref: DRN69605322Ill make  clear at the outset that I dont  think  there was a misrepresentation of the agreement. 
And Ill explain why Ive reached  this conclusion.
I do not doubt that Mr B has given us his honest  recollection at the content of discussions 
which took place  before the agreement was signed. But its not uncommon  for different 
parties to a conversation to have a different understanding of what  was agreed.  And one of 
the main reasons for providing a consumer with written  explanations and a copy of an 
agreement is to try to prevent mistakes and/or misunderstandings. 
In this case Mr B has signed to confirm the Sytner representative explained how payments 
would be made  and that hed considered how changes in his circumstances might affect his 
ability to pay. And hes then gone on to sign the agreement  and accept the terms and 
conditions. The agreement clearly  sets out the main features such as the amount of credit 
provided; the cost of credit;  annual interest  rate payable and the monthly repayments. 
Im unable to accept Mr Bs contention that he was told the monthly payments of around 
£1,452 would be made up of interest  repayments  of £226 and over £1,200 repayment of 
capital. He knew he was borrowing  over £73,000 and so its not in my opinion plausible to 
think - with such large amount of capital outstanding  - that hed only be paying such  a low 
amount of interest.  At the quoted annual interest rate of 6.89% even a calculation using 
simple interest on an annual basis wouldve resulted in the first year in an interest figure 
almost twice the figure Mr B has stated.
I dont think Mr B can have been in any doubt as to the total amount he was required to 
repay and the regular  monthly payments he would have to make.  As the loan was taken out 
in relation to his business I think his main  concern  wouldve been to ensure  that the regular 
payments were affordable. Im not satisfied it wouldve  made any difference to his decision to 
go ahead  with the deal if hed been told the interest would be calculated  in a different way to 
that which he understood - but his monthly  payments  wouldnt be affected.
Im aware Mr B says he didnt have time to read through  all the terms and conditions  on the 
day he signed - but I dont  accept that. If he wasnt satisfied hed been given enough time to 
check the details  which were important to him I think it would be reasonable to expect hed 
ask for longer.  And the information  Ive seen shows Mr B made the application in December  
2017. So I think there was ample time to seek any explanations he might  require.
Im sorry  that things didnt  work out as well as Mr B hoped. And it was regrettable that he 
was obliged to seek an early settlement of the agreement. But I dont think  Sytner has done  
anything wrong  when it acted as credit  broker to this agreement.  And I shant be asking  it to 
do anything else.
For completeness I would just add that as Sytner  is not the supplier of finance  in this case 
its no power to alter the terms  of the finance agreement. Nor is it able to cancel interest or 
reallocate payments  made. If Mr B wishes to negotiate different  payment arrangements  he 
would need to do so directly with BH.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN69605323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Stephen Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6960532