K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Phoenix Life Assurance Limited. Hes unhappy  about  the length  
of time it took to arrange the transfer  of his pension. He says that the delay caused him to 
lose out on the opportunity of investment growth.
 
background
Mr M wanted to transfer pension funds he held with Phoenix into his SIPP. He was being  
assisted by his independent financial adviser (IFA).
The transfer process began in March  2018  but wasnt completed until June 2018.  When Mr 
M complained to Phoenix it accepted there  had been some  delay by it, but it said this was 
limited to a period between 11 and 22 June 2018.  Phoenix offered to pay Mr M £150 for any 
inconvenience together with late payment interest  on his funds at 8 per cent to reflect his 
loss of opportunity  to invest over this period (this amounted to £343.01). However,  it said 
that it had met its internal  response times  in dealing with other aspects of the transfer and 
was not responsible for any other delay.
Mr M referred the complaint to this service. He said, in summary, Phoenix  response time of 
ten working days wasnt acceptable  and it hadnt  sent all the relevant forms to his IFA when 
it should have.  He also added that hes had to call Phoenix on a number of occasions  to 
move things along.
The complaint was considered by an investigator  but she decided not to uphold.  She 
explained that this service  wasnt  the regulator and wasnt responsible for deciding what 
internal response  times a business should  have. She also explained  that Phoenix had sent 
all the relevant forms to the IFA on 23 March 2018  but these hadnt  all been returned 
promptly. For example, a scam questionnaire  wasnt returned and had to be followed up 
and was only received on 25 May 2018.  Also, a pension advice declaration  form wasnt 
returned until 10 June  2018.
The investigator agreed that the transfer could have been completed more  quickly from that 
point and felt the offer made was fair.
Mr M didnt  agree. He pointed to a specific period in March 2018  when  he felt Phoenix  had 
failed to meet its own response times. He also said that by not considering whether 
Phoenixs response times were reasonable we were  taking an unduly restrictive  approach.  
Mr M also said that the relevant forms hadnt  been  sent. He pointed to a letter  from Phoenix  
dated 23 March  2018 and identified  that this didnt  enclose the pension advice declaration 
form. He also questioned whether Phoenix  had seen his original complaint.
The investigator considered this response but didnt change her mind.  She pointed  to actions 
that had been taken  by Phoenix in March 2018  and noted that these had been completed  
within Phoenixs timescales. She was also satisfied that the relevant forms had been  sent on 
23 March 2018.  She explained the role of this service and confirmed that Phoenix  had been  
sent a copy of the complaint.
Mr M responded suggesting there  was a misinterpretation of the log from March 2018. He 
also said that because  Phoenix didnt use email  and only used  second  class post its 
response times were  potentially much longer than 10 days. He added that the pension 
Ref: DRN68319482advice declaration form probably  wasnt  sent on 23 March as correspondence from his IFA 
suggested there had been  a later request for documentation.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the evidence  but my decision will focus on those issues which I consider 
to be central to my determination of the complaint. Ive not responded to each and every 
point either  party has made.
I agree  with the investigator and broadly with her reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint.
I note Mr Ms concerns about  the service  standards Phoenix has committed to and the point 
he makes regarding the use of second class mail and non-use  of email. As the investigator 
has said, this service  isnt the industry  regulator and we dont set industry standards. But 
when we consider  a complaint we are required to determine what  we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. This can include considering what is good industry 
practice.
In a complaint  like this, where the crux of the complaint is about potential  delay, its 
necessary to consider the transaction  as a whole and decide  whether it was completed in a 
reasonable timescale. That would involve considering how long a transaction  like this would 
normally take in the wider  industry, and if there was any delay, deciding who,  if anyone was 
responsible for that delay.
I agree  with the investigator,  and with Phoenix, that there was delay from 11 June  2018.  But 
Im not satisfied that Phoenix was responsible for any delay before that. Ive noted Mr Ms 
comments regarding the specific period  in March 2018 but Im satisfied that Phoenix  did take 
some action in this period which included providing further information to the IFA and 
providing the transfer pack. These steps were  completed in a reasonable timeframe  in my 
view.
Ive also noted  Mr Ms comment that a letter  of 23 March 2018 from Phoenix enclosed  a 
number of forms for completion  but didnt include the pension advice declaration form. I 
agree that this letter itemises enclosures  but doesnt  refer to the advice declaration.  This has 
been raised with Phoenix and its provided  a copy of a second  separate  letter of the same 
date which  did enclose the advice declaration.
So I am satisfied that the relevant forms were sent to the IFA in good time. Im also satisfied 
that Phoenix didnt  receive the completed  advice declaration until 10 June 2018. So I dont 
think Phoenix could  have proceeded with the transfer before 10 June 2018, which it accepts.  
It was only at that point  that it had all the necessary documents.
Phoenix has offered  to compensate Mr M for the inconvenience caused  by the subsequent 
delay and offered  interest for this period to reflect any investment loss. I think  its offer is fair.
Ref: DRN68319483my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ref: DRN6831948