K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc T/A Halifax (Halifax) applied  unauthorised 
overdraft charges to an account she thought was closed, which led to her incurring a debt.  
She doesnt think Halifax did enough  to make her aware of the charges and wants them  
refunded. She also wants any negative  information  thats been  recorded on her credit file to 
be taken off.  
background
Miss S opened a current account with Halifax in 2012. Some years later she opened a new 
private banking  account  and said she assumed the original one had been closed. However, 
it hadnt been closed  there was a regular income payment made into it and one remaining 
direct debit being paid. And it continued to accrue overdraft charges. The account  had an 
agreed overdraft of £1,500 but went into unplanned  overdraft in February 2017. Halifax 
wrote to Miss S in February and March 2017  explaining the position and setting out what she 
needed to do to get the account back  within its overdraft limit. But it didnt receive a 
response and closed the account in June 2017.   Since then some payments  have been  
made to the account  which is now below the overdraft limit, although it remains  closed. 
Miss S said she became aware of the charges from a letter she received  from the recovery 
agency. She complained to Halifax  as she thought  the account had already been  closed.  
Halifax said the account hadnt  been  closed and it had contacted her to make her aware of 
the situation. Miss S didnt accept shed  received  any correspondence  but said even if she 
had she thought it was marketing material. She also said shed  suffered  a serious accident in 
2015 which meant she had difficulty following simple tasks and she didnt  think  Halifax had 
taken that into account.
Halifax said Miss S hadnt made it aware  of any medical issues  until the point that she 
complained. It also said it had made Miss S fully aware of the situation  regarding the account 
and had tried to contact  her number of times prior to the account  being closed. It said it had 
correctly applied the charges  and closed the account  in its view.  
As Miss S didnt agree  she referred  the complaint to us.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and initially thought it had been  brought  
outside of the time limits  allowed,  but Halifax said that we could look at the complaint. The 
investigator then thought  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She explained  that there were 
still payments coming into and out of the account  when it went  into an unarranged overdraft 
so she thought it was still being used and Miss S should have been aware of this. In addition  
she said Halifax had sent Miss S a number of letters about  the unauthorised overdraft 
charges and noted that Miss S had continued  to log in to her online banking account. So she 
thought Halifax  had acted fairly. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said she didnt receive  any correspondence from Halifax making  
her aware of the charges.  And she didnt expect  to receive anything  because she had a new 
current account which she thought had replaced  the one in question.  She also said that she 
hadnt used the original  account within the last year or so and shed thought all of the direct  
debits had been switched to her new account.
 
As Miss S didnt agree  the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ref: DRN62521952Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive was sorry to learn of Miss Ss unfortunate accident some  years ago, which  I understand 
has left her with a number  of ongoing health  issues. So I have some  sympathy  with her 
position here as it must have caused  her concern to learn that an account  she believed  was 
closed has incurred overdraft charges.  But I dont  think Halifax has done  anything  wrong 
here  which  I know will disappoint  Miss S  so Ill explain why.
Ive seen the letter Halifax sent to Miss S in February 2017,  which explained that her 
personal current account had gone into an unauthorised overdraft. It confirmed what  fees 
would continue to be applied to the account and how to contact Halifax  to discuss the matter 
further. This was followed, in March, by a notice of the unplanned overdraft fee that was to 
be applied  the following  month. So I think Halifax provided the means for Miss S to be aware  
of the situation  regarding  her account  from the time she went  into the unauthorised overdraft 
until the date the account  was closed. Im satisfied had Miss S read the letters she would 
have been able to take the required steps  to bring  the account  back  below the overdraft 
amount. So I cant say Halifax didnt make  her aware of what  needed to be done.
Miss S says she didnt  receive the letters   or assumed  they were marketing 
communications because  she no longer believed her account was open  and therefore  
wouldnt have expected to receive  letters about  it. But Ive seen that the letters  were  sent to 
the address Halifax  held for Miss S which I note is her current address. And theres no 
evidence to show the letters were marketing communications  as they refer specifically to 
Miss S account. So Im satisfied that Halifax  did send the letters  to the correct address and 
the letters were  an attempt to make  Miss S aware  of the position with her current account. 
And Ive also seen that the debt recovery agency  sent a letter  to Miss S in June 2017  
which Im satisfied Miss A did receive  because she rang to make  her complaint shortly  after 
receiving it. 
Miss S says she had contacted Halifax in February 2017 but it never got back  to her to 
discuss the matter. Ive seen Halifaxs contact notes  which show that it spoke with her about 
issues in 2014  and 2015  which werent related to this complaint  but theres no evidence  
to show that it spoke to her in February  2017  as she suggested. But if Miss S did raise  a 
complaint in February I think  she would have known the reason for her complaint  namely  
exceeding the unauthorised overdraft, so I think she could have asked Halifax  to reduce  the 
outstanding overdraft balance at that point. I note she had a significant level of funds 
available in her other  accounts at that time.
Because Ive seen  that Miss S held other accounts  with the banking  group, Ive gone  on to 
consider whether Halifax could have used its right of set off (ROSO) for Miss S unplanned 
overdraft amount against her savings accounts  or private banking account. 
But Halifax  has explained  that its systems  arent able to recognise accounts  outside of a 
personal banking  profile.  And the private  bank account wasnt a personal account. So Im 
satisfied Halifax wouldnt have exercised its ROSO in this situation  - which it wasnt obliged  
to do in any case. 
Miss S has also said that Halifax didnt  take her medical  situation  into account  so it hasnt 
treated her situation  sympathetically. Miss S has provided medical  evidence  to show  what  
treatment and help she was receiving in 2015 but she hasnt been able to show  that she 
made Halifax aware of the condition. And Halifax doesnt have any evidence  to show  Miss S 
Ref: DRN62521953did contact it about that matter. So I cant say Halifax  was aware of her medical issues  and 
didnt treat Miss S sympathetically  in the circumstances.
Miss S says theres no evidence she was actively using the account up to the point the 
charges were applied  and shed not received any correspondence prior to that   that she 
was aware of, regarding  the account. But Ive seen  how Miss S had previously indicated that 
she preferred her statements to be issued online  and the account  shows  a mobile  phone  bill 
going out and income  from an investment going  in. So I do think  Miss S was using the 
account to some extent  and there  was no need  for Halifax to contact  her about the account 
until she exceeded the planned  overdraft.  
Ultimately here I think Halifax tried to make  Miss S aware of the unauthorised overdraft on 
her account  and what she should do about  it. And as Miss A didnt  make  any contact with 
Halifax it closed the account. Theres no evidence that Halifax was aware of Miss S medical  
conditions and theres no evidence of any instruction from Halifax to Miss S that she should 
close her account when she opened  a new one. So overall I cant safely say Halifax  has 
done anything  wrong here and Im not going to ask it to refund any charges.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Miss S complaint  against  Bank  of Scotland plc T/A 
Halifax. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6252195