K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that esure Insurance Limited wrongly settled  a claim made under her car 
insurance policy and also provided her with poor service
Miss W has been assisted by a family member in bringing the complaint to our service.  For 
ease of reading, any reference  to Miss W includes contact made on her behalf.
 
background
Miss W was involved in an incident with another car at a roundabout and made a claim 
under her policy.  
Both drivers  involved said the other  was at fault.  Miss W wasnt  happy  that esure didnt keep 
her up-to-date with what was happening with her claim. She was also unhappy that it 
eventually settled the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis as this meant she was held jointly  
at fault for the accident with the other driver. She says esure  didnt do enough  to investigate 
before reaching  its decision.
Miss W also said that one of esures operatives  shouted at her over the phone.  She was 
unhappy with the service  she received  and wanted her claim settled as non-fault.  She made  
a complaint to esure.    
esure said it didnt have a strong enough case to take to court  and for this reason made a 
50/50 claim settlement.  It explained that Miss W could take her own legal action  for any 
uninsured losses.  It also apologised and offered her £100 compensation in recognition that 
the customer service shed received wasnt as good  as it should have been.
Miss W remained unhappy  with esures  decision and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that, in light of the lack of evidence, esure had made a reasonable 
decision to settle  the claim 50/50. She also thought the level of compensation offered was 
fair. She said she couldnt ask esure  to do anything more. 
Miss W disagreed because she said esure hadnt  fully taken into account the circumstances 
of the incident.  And so her case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide this complaint, my role is to consider whether, based on the evidence  
provided, esure acted  fairly and reasonably in deciding how to settle Miss Ws claim.  Its not 
my role to decide whos at fault for the accident.   
Based on the evidence  Ive seen my decision is that esure acted fairly and reasonably in 
settling Miss Ws claim on a 50/50  split liability basis. But I do think  Miss W could have 
received a better level of customer service while it was dealing with her claim. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate Miss W is adamant she wasnt at fault for the accident. So, I can understand her 
frustration that esure decided to settle the claim 50/50. But esure has explained  that, like 
Ref: DRN63516952most policies  we see, it has the right to take over the claim and decide whether to take the 
other driver to court or settle  a claim. And Miss W accepts this. 
Cases like this are difficult  to determine  without any independent witnesses  or evidence. And 
I can see from its system  notes that esure tried to manage Miss Ws expectations early on in 
her claim  advising  her over the phone that it may have to settle  on a 50/50  split liability 
basis. 
But I expect an insurer to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding 
of the evidence and circumstances of the incident.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the information provided and Im satisfied esure carried  out a 
reasonable investigation into the claim and considered  all of the available evidence.  
I can see from esures system notes that it considered Miss Ws recollection of events. But it 
says the road layout  and lack of any supporting evidence meant it couldnt prove in court  this 
was the reason for the accident.
Whilst esure didnt receive  an explanation of the incident from the other driver, I think that in 
the absence of any independent  evidence, such as witness  statements or CCTV, it made  a 
fair decision to settle 50/50. And even  if I thought  it was more  likely than not that any 
statements from the other driver wouldnt have been supported  by independent  evidence,  
this would mean there was no supporting evidence from either  driver.  So, I dont think esure  
needed to rely on a statement from the other driver  to reach its decision to settle 50/50. 
I recognise Miss Ws strength  of feeling  about  this but I think  its reasonable for esure to say 
it didnt think it would  be able to prove  the accident wasnt  her fault if the case went to court. I 
also think it reasonable for esure  to record  it in the way it has because it didnt fully recover 
all of its costs.  I appreciate this is disappointing for Miss W, but Im not persuaded esure 
needs to remove  any record of the claim  because it did happen. 
Regarding esures  agents behaviour, I have listened to the call in question and havent  
found the agent shouted at Miss W. I believe the agent was genuinely trying to help her, but I 
think he could have  understood her frustrations better.
In general I think the claim has been  handled  fairly but there have been some delays and a 
lack of understanding from one of esures agents.  esure has offered £100 compensation in 
recognition that it could  have handled her claim better. I didnt find any evidence that esures 
operatives shouted  at Miss W. And I cant say without any doubt that esure  was to blame for 
all of the failures in communication. 
my final decision
esure Insurance Limited  has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle  the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that esure Insurance Limited, if it hasnt already done so, should pay 
Miss W £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Ref: DRN63516953Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6351695