K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) was irresponsible to lend him 
money.
background
Mr M took out two Peachy  loans  in October  2017.  Heres a table showing more  information:
LoanDate Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest  
Monthly 
Repayment
1 18/10/2017 24/10/2017 6 £150.00 £55.64
2 24/10/2017 Not repaid 12 £450.00 £79.46
Mr M told us he doesnt feel that Peachys checks went  far enough and that the loans were 
unaffordable and shouldnt have been given.
Our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable that Peachy agreed the first loan - but he felt 
that loan 2 shouldnt have  been  given to Mr M. 
Peachy disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that by loan 2, there  was no 
reason for it to conduct further in-depth assessments such as asking for Mr Ms bank 
statements (as our adjudicator had said it should) because Mr Ms disposable  income meant 
the loan repayments were  affordable,  plus he had a steady job and a positive payment 
record. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Peachy  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN60080552the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Peachy was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Peachy has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M to provide  
details of his income  and to tell Peachy what he normally  spent  each month  including what 
he was paying  for other borrowing. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Peachy to give Mr M loan 1 on the basis 
of the information he had declared about  his income  and outgoings and what  Peachy had 
recorded about his financial situation. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think 
the checks were enough  for Peachy to agree to lend. As Mr M hasnt raised any objection to 
the adjudicators  recommendation  in relation  to loan 1, I dont think that I need to say more 
about it.
Peachy has taken issue with our adjudicators  suggestion that it ought to have collected  
Mr Ms bank statements before agreeing to provide loan 2. And I think its fair to say that 
there are no prescribed rules saying that a lender is obliged to ask for copies of bank  
statements. But the checks have  to be proportionate. 
Mr M repaid loan 1 within less than a week after taking it out. That suggested he might  not 
have been managing his finances in a well planned way or that his situation was volatile. 
Mr M then arranged  loan 2 the same day that he repaid his first loan, and he borrowed three 
times as much  and planned the repayments  over a much longer period  loan 2 was due to 
be paid by way of 12 monthly  repayments  possibly to keep the cost of the monthly  
repayments down.  So, when it was being arranged, Peachy expected  Mr M to be paying for 
this borrowing over a year.
Ref: DRN60080553In these circumstances, I think Peachy should have considered  if it could safely  rely on the 
information Mr M was providing  about  his finances. Although the loan mightve looked 
affordable on the figures, I dont think it was any longer reasonable for Peachy to base its 
lending decision on the information Mr M was providing  given that his borrowing looked  to 
be at odds with what hed told Peachy about  his financial situation. I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Peachy independently to check the true state of Mr Ms finances before 
agreeing to lend loan 2.
Ive had the benefit of seeing Mr Ms bank  statements from around that time. To be clear, Im 
not saying that Peachy was required to ask for these  before agreeing  to lend  but they 
indicate what better checks would have shown  Peachy had it carried out a more  in depth 
investigation into Mr Ms financial situation, as I think it shouldve done.
Had Peachy looked  more  closely into Mr Ms finances it would have realised that he was 
facing serious problems managing his money. It would have seen that Mr M had three other  
short term loans  and that it was likely he had used  some  of the money  hed previously 
borrowed from Peachy to repay other  short term loans that were due. 
I think that information ought to have prompted  Peachy  to decline Mr Ms application for 
loan 2 because  it wasnt reasonable for Peachy to conclude that it was likely Mr M would be 
able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way. 
And thats borne out by what happened  - Mr M was only able to afford the first three monthly  
repayments before entering into a debt management plan.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr M has told us he agrees with what Ive said.
Peachy told me it has seen my provisional decision  and has nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN60080554putting things right  what the lender should  do
If Peachy  has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back  before doing what  I have 
outlined below  or if it isnt able to buy the debt back then Peachy should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 2, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr M as though  they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr M having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.  Peachy should  
then refund the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B".
B.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance outstanding. If this results  in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr M. However  if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Peachy should  try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan with Mr M.
C.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Ms credit file for loan 2 when it is paid - and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same  if Peachy  sold this loan on. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) to take the steps 
Ive set out above to put things right for Mr M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6008055