K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr R complain about  issues which Miss S has experienced with a car purchased 
with finance from Paragon Bank Plc.
background
In October  2018 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with Paragon.
At the point of supply Miss S made  the dealer aware  of a noise from the engine. She also 
noticed a wheel balancing issue. The dealer replaced the steering  rack.
When Miss S collected the car she noticed  the noise from the engine was still present and 
the car was pulling to the right.
Miss S arranged to have  the wheels balanced herself. Her local garage investigated the 
engine noise  and replaced the steering  pump  and a turbo sensor.
On 5 December  2018 the car went into limp mode. Miss S called a roadside recovery  
company who diagnosed  an issue with the DPF. The car was recovered to a local garage 
and the DPF sensor was replaced.
On 27 December 2018 the car went into limp mode again. The car was recovered to a local 
garage that checked the DPF and cleared the fault codes.
Miss S complained to Paragon who arranged for an independent inspection to be carried 
out.
The inspection was completed on 27 January 2019. It concluded that the issue  with the car 
related to a blockage  of the DPF filter but said the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply because  the DPF filter was a serviceable  item rather  than a manufacturing  defect.
Paragon declined to accept Miss Ss request to reject the car and unwind the agreement. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Paragons response so she complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the business had shown with the 
independent report  that the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
Miss S didnt agree. She said that neither of the two local garages who had repaired the car 
had said there was a fault with the DPF filter.  She said the independent inspection  was brief 
and didnt involve  a physical inspection of the DPF. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Paragon  has supplied  the car under  a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of a satisfactory quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
Ref: DRN62138362uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory quality  
at the point of supply  due to an inherent defect rather than general  wear and tear.
Miss S and Paragon disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss Ss complaint centres on issues shes experienced  with the car. I can see that she 
initially experienced some issues with noise  from the engine  and wheel balancing.  These 
issues have been  resolved/successfully  repaired so Ill focus on the issues  which  shes  
continuing to experience  with the car going  into limp mode.
The car first went into limp mode in early December 2018. Despite attempts by local garages 
to fix the issue this still hasnt been resolved. Because  the issue  presented itself within  6 
months of the point  of supply, its up to the business to show that the fault wasnt present or 
developing at the point of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not a car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. In this case,  an independent inspection said the issue 
concerned the regeneration of the DPF and possibly an EGR valve,  caused by a partial  
blockage of the DPF filter. The engineer  concluded  that because  the DPF filter requires 
regular cleaning and regenerating as part of routine  maintenance,  a partially blocked DPF 
filter would not be considered to be a manufacturing defect.
I appreciate that Miss S doesnt agree with the independent  inspection.  She says the car has 
been inspected  by other garages none of whom found a fault with the DPF filter.  Ive looked 
at the invoices provided by Miss S but these  are inconclusive as to the nature  of the fault.  
Theres no evidence to suggest that the other garages inspected  the DPF filter. The 
independent inspection is persuasive  because  it has been  carried  out by a neutral third party  
engineer. Whilst I acknowledge that Miss S doesnt  agree with the report,  Ive no reason to 
believe that the report hasnt correctly identified  the issue as a partially  blocked  DPF.
Based on the independent inspection, Im satisfied that the business has shown that the fault 
with the DPF filter was a servicing /wear  and tear issue as opposed to a manufacturing 
defect.
 Ive taken into account that the car was second  hand and had covered mileage of 
approximately 83,693 at the point of supply. Ive also taken into account that the car doesnt  
use additive as part of the regeneration process  and relies solely  on the drivers use of the 
car to carry out regeneration. The way in which  the car is driven can affect regeneration.
I can see that the car has covered approximately 3500 miles since the point of supply and 
the date when the complaint was raised  with the business approximately 3 months  later. 
This is significant mileage. Had there  been a defect at the point of supply I would have 
expected Miss S to experience the fault a lot sooner than she did.
In conclusion, the balance of evidence  suggests that the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
pint of supply. Although  the car clearly  has an issue with going into limp mode, its most 
likely that this has been caused  by a partially blocked DPF. This is a service issue  as 
opposed to an inherent defect.
Ref: DRN62138363Because of this, Im unable to say that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. I wont be asking  Paragon to accept the request to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6213836