K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way esure  Insurance  Limited handled a claim he made  on his 
motor insurance policy.  
background 
In January 2018 Mr S was involved in an accident with another  driver. He claimed  on his 
insurance policy. Mr S said he wasnt to blame for the accident and he had a witness to 
support his version of events.
Mr S is unhappy because he contacted esure  to say hed received  documents from the court  
as the other driver had made a claim. In summary,  esure didnt pass  this information on to 
the solicitors representing  Mr S so they didnt  attend court  to defend  the claim. 
The court made a judgement in favour  of the other driver. Mr S received a letter saying he 
needed to pay around £2300 and a County Court Judgement  being  recorded against him. 
Around the same time Mr S received a letter to say his credit  limit was being reduced. All of 
this took place shortly  after Mr Ss mother unexpectedly passed  away and when he was in 
the process of trying  to get a mortgage to buy his childhood home. So Mr S has explained 
this has caused  him a great deal of upset, particularly as he says he was given  the 
impression he had a good chance of winning the case. 
In their final response eSure accepted they hadnt passed on information to the solicitors and 
agreed more could have been  done. eSure also confirmed full payment had been made to 
the other drivers insurer  and ensured the CCJ was satisfied. They also offered Mr S £150 
compensation. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said the solicitors hadnt attended court 
because the information from Mr S hadnt  been  passed on. He thought this was a significant 
error as no defence was put forward and the judgement was made in the other  drivers  
favour. He explained  he was thinking of upholding the complaint. 
eSure responded  to say they agreed  there  was a delay in instructing the solicitors. They 
changed the recorded outcome of the claim to 50/50  fault rather  than full fault. They  agreed  
to cover all of Mr Ss repair costs and waive half of the excess. However  as eSure were also 
offering a further £100 compensation they proposed  waiving the excess in full. 
The investigator clarified the position  in relation to Mr Ss no claims discount at Mr Ss 
request. eSure confirmed  Mr S should have been paying a higher premium since  January 
2018 but, in view of the circumstances, they wouldnt charge an additional premium. They 
also confirmed from January 2019 Mr S would have one years  no claim discount and legal 
advice from the solicitors indicated the best possible outcome in Mr Ss case was 50/50 
liability. 
In summary  Mr S responded  to say:
eSure gave a number of assurances  about winning the case    so it doesnt make  
sense the legal advice was the best outcome was 50/50  
Hed prefer to keep  his no claims discount  rather than have the repairs  paid for
Ref: DRN63303202His credit  file was affected  and eSure had only corrected it because  he made a 
complaint
The compensation offered isnt enough 
This happened at a very stressful time when Mr Ss mother  had recently passed 
away and he was applying for a mortgage.  
Mr S asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules  and industry  guidance  eSure has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  
Its not in dispute  that eSure didnt pass on important information to the solicitors  which 
meant no one attended to defend  the claim.  So the key issue for me to consider is whether 
the settlement  eSure  has suggested is fair. Im satisfied it is because:  
eSure did give Mr S assurances about his chances of success. But the notes from 
Mr Ss legal representative indicates the best possible outcome was most likely to be 
a 50/50 settlement and they also recorded that Mr S could potentially be held fully 
liable. Even if Mr S wanted  to take the claim further, eSure couldve settled it on that 
basis, as they are entitled to do so under the policy terms. So I dont think  its 
unreasonable the claim is recorded  on the basis  of 50/50  liability as I think  that 
reflects the legal advice eSure and Mr S received
Unless the claim was settled on a no fault basis Mr Ss no claims discount would 
always have been affected. It seems  unlikely that wouldve happened as I think  the 
solicitors were unlikely to have pursued the claim on the basis  Mr S wasnt  at fault as 
their advice  was Mr S couldve been  held fully liable due to the circumstances 
Mr S did have the judgement recorded against him. However, eSure made the 
payment to the other  drivers insurer within a reasonable  time period. And they also 
took appropriate steps for this to be rectified  within a reasonable time frame.  There  
were some delays but this was due to a backlog in the court system. So I think  eSure 
took reasonable steps to put things right for Mr S and the offer theyve made fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced
Mr Ss credit  card provider reduced  his limit around the time that this happened. 
Theres no clear link between this and the judgement being recorded. However, I 
accept its possible there  was a link. I also appreciate that Mr S was dealing with this 
following the unexpected loss of his mother. And he was trying  to arrange a 
mortgage to buy his childhood  home. So I can understand how stressful  this must  
have been. However, Im satisfied  that the overall offer from eSure fairly reflects  the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him during this period and theyve put things 
right in the way Id expect them to
Ref: DRN63303203Mr S hasnt  paid an additional premium  this year, despite the claim. eSure hasnt 
sought to increase  the premium which means Mr S has received his insurance at a 
lower cost than he should. So Ive also taken  this into account when reaching the 
conclusion the overall settlement is fair. 
putting things right
eSure needs to put things  right by:
Waiving the policy excess  in full
Covering 100%  of the cost of the repairs to Mr Ss car (subject to the policy terms)
Recording that the claim  was settled on a 50/50 liability basis
Not charging additional  premiums as a result of this claim for the duration  of the 
relevant policy  year
Paying Mr S the £150  compensation referred  to in the final response letter  (if this 
hasnt been paid to Mr S already). 
 
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint against eSure Insurance Limited but I think  the settlement 
theyve suggested  is fair. So Im directing  them to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6330320