K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold in 1998. Allianz 
Insurance Plc, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple  in 
my decision,  Ill just say Allianz when Im referring to the PPI seller  or to Allianz. Mr T says 
Allianz mis-sold the PPI to him.
background
The PPI policy was taken  to protect  the payments to a store card.  The policy  was sold at the 
time Mr T applied for his card in 1998.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
 Allianz has provided a copy of Mr Ts credit agreement. In order to take out PPI, a box, 
in separate section of the form,  had to be ticked. On the form signed  by Mr T, this box 
was ticked. Mr Ts name is also written  out in full to confirm that hes the insured 
person. Mr T didnt have  to tick the box and fill in this section  if he didnt want  the 
cover. So overall  I think it is more  likely  than not that PPI was presented to Mr T as an 
optional product and he chose to take it out.
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. 
 Im open to the possibility that the information Allianz gave  Mr T about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. For example,  the cost of the PPI couldve been  made  
clearer. But Mr T chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. The policy  provided a decent  benefit especially when considered  in relation to 
the cost. Given the cost and benefit of the policy, I dont  think  better information about 
the PPI wouldve  put Mr T off taking out the cover in the first place even if he was 
entitled to as much sick pay as he now says he was. 
Ive thought about everything provided  and listened to everything Mr Ts said. But these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN66104622my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6610462