K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unha ppy that Tesco Unde rwriting Limited declined a claim under their 
home insurance policy for three rings that were stolen while  Mrs B was on holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs B made a claim to Tesco  after three rings belonging to Mrs B were stolen while 
she was on holiday.  The rings were specified on their policy for a total value of £19,500.
Mrs B said shed taken the rings  off and placed  them in a plastic zip bag which  was put into 
a wash bag and that in turn was placed into a larger bag. After  putting a beach  towel  over 
the bag to conceal it, she left the bag on a sun lounger unattended and went in the sea with 
her children for between  half an hour and an hour. After she returned  to her hotel room,  she 
found that the wash bag with the rings was missing.
Tesco declined the claim. It said Mrs B was in breach of the condition  in the policy  that she 
should take steps to avoid or limit any loss, damage or injury.
I issued a provisional decision explain why I was minded  not to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Theres a condition  in Mr and Mrs Bs policy which says:
Preventing loss - You must  take steps to ... avoid or limit any loss, damage or injury."
In this sort of situation liability usually depends on someone failing to take reasonable care. 
Someone shouldnt be able to recover for a loss that could have been avoided by taking  
reasonable steps. In my view the purpose of this condition is to ensure  that the insured will 
not, because theyre  covered against loss by the policy, refrain from taking precautions  
which they knew ought to be taken.
If an insurer turns down a claim because  an insured  failed to take reasonable care,  there 
needs to be evidence to show the insured  acted  in such a way that amounted to 
recklessness - that is, they recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking:
 measures  which  they knew were inadequate; or
 no measures at all.
There are several things I look at before deciding whether a consumer has acted recklessly. 
Firstly I look at whats been  stolen.  In this case it was three  rings  worth at least £19,500. Id 
generally think its reasonable  for a consumer  to keep their valuables on or as close  to their  
person as possible as opposed to leaving them unattended in a bag under a beach towel.  I 
think the fact that the rings were  placed in a bag under a towel shows  that Mrs B recognised  
that there  was some  risk in leaving them unattended.
I also look at what were  the circumstances - how and where did the loss happen. Mrs B said 
she had access to the VIP section of the beach  at her hotel. People had to wear a black  
wristband to use this section of beach but there  were no physical borders that would prevent 
someone from walking  into this section. Mrs B said she didnt think  there was a great  deal of 
risk because it was an exclusive resort and she hadnt seen anyone who looked suspicious 
during the previous three  days shed been  there. People who werent  wearing a black  
Ref: DRN66143762wristband were asked  to leave the area in question. There was also a straight  and flat line of 
sight between the sun lounger she was using  and where she was playing in the sea with her 
children. Mrs B estimated the distance between the lounger and the sea was about 24 feet.
I understand that Mrs B was in an area of an exclusive hotel resort where everyone was 
supposed to wear a wrist band. But this was still a public place in that other guests, staff and 
possibly also unauthorised persons had access to the area, so there was still a risk of theft. I 
also appreciate  that she wasnt far away from the sun lounger. But she had two children in 
the water  to keep an eye on. So she probably  had her back  to the sun lounger from time to 
time.
Lastly, I take into account whether the consumer had any option  other  than to place  their 
valuables where  they did. Mrs B said she didnt think it was a reasonable alternative  to leave 
the jewellery items in the hotel room because there was no safe there  and a lot of staff went 
into the room  in the course of a day. She didnt know whether there was a safe facility  at the 
hotel reception.  Tesco  has produced written evidence from the hotel that every bedroom  had 
a safe. So, although Mrs B wasnt  aware  of it, if shed made  enquiries  of reception, she could 
have found out about a more secure  alternative.
Overall, I think Mrs B recognised there  was a risk (thats why she put the rings  in a bag and 
put a towel over the bag). But she should  have known  that these measures were inadequate  
to protect  her belongings. I dont think she took reasonable care. I appreciate  this decision 
will be very disappointing to Mr and Mrs B, especially given  our earlier  findings.  But I cant 
fairly require  Tesco to pay for their loss, given Mrs B left her valuables unattended in a public 
place.
Mr B replied  that their policy required  them to take steps to limit and/or prevent loss. He 
thought his wife had taken  numerous  steps to safeguard and conceal the rings in question.  
He felt it would have been reckless  if Mrs B had left the rings in open  view and full glare of 
the general public. As the rings had been carefully concealed in her bag as described 
above, he didnt  agree shed been reckless.  He didnt  agree that there was a requirement to 
take reasonable care as thats not what the policy said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B thinks  a court would make a decision in his favour based  on the policy  wording. In this 
service we reach decisions based  on what  we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  So I dont  just look at the policy wording. Ive also taken into 
account that even if the policy doesnt  explicitly mention taking reasonable care,  its 
generally an implied term of an insurance  contract  that the consumer should take reasonable 
care and act as if theyre uninsured.
I dont dispute  that Mrs B did take some steps to prevent  the loss. If she hadnt thought 
about the risk of the rings  being stolen, Id probably say shed been  careless.  But she did 
recognise the risk. Its just that (unfortunately  for her) in my opinion  she didnt do enough to 
minimise that risk. All in all, bearing in mind  the value of the rings  and the other measures 
that she could  have taken (such  as enquiring about  safekeeping), I think  Tesco  acted 
reasonably in treating her actions as amounting to recklessness.
Ref: DRN66143763If Mr and Mrs B dont  accept this final decision, they can take their dispute to court if they 
wish.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6614376