K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that, when his hire purchase agreement  with Retail Money  Market  Limited,  
trading as RateSetter, was unwound, he didnt receive payment for a car that hed part-
exchanged.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with RateSetter that he 
signed in November 2017. There were  issues with the car and RateSetter  accepted  that 
Mr S could return the car and that the agreement would be unwound. But Mr S says that he 
part-exchanged his old car when the car was supplied to him in November 2017 and that he 
hasnt received a payment from the dealer for that car. He complained  to RateSetter but 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that the 
agreement for the part-exchange formed part of the negotiations between Mr S and the 
dealer  and that RateSetter  was jointly responsible  for those negotiations. She says that 
Mr S hadnt  received a payment for the car that he part-exchanged and that the average 
value of a car of that description and mileage from looking at the independent guides was 
£1,766. So she recommended  that RateSetter  should pay £1,766 to Mr S to reflect a fair 
value of the car that he part-exchanged  (with  interest) and that it should pay him £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused. But she didnt consider that RateSetter 
should pay him compensation for the time that hed been signed off work with stress. 
RateSetter has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that it 
upheld Mr Ss complaint  and unwound the agreement but the part-exchange wasnt  included  
as part of that agreement so it doesnt accept that it should be held liable to reimburse  Mr S 
for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RateSetter accepts  that the car that it supplied to Mr S under the hire purchase agreement  
wasnt of satisfactory quality  so it accepted  Mr Ss rejection of the car and unwound the 
agreement.
Mr S says that he part-exchanged  his old car for the car that was supplied to him in 
November 2017  and that he didnt  receive a payment  for that car from the dealer. There is 
no mention of a car being part-exchanged in the hire purchase agreement  and I consider it 
to be more likely than not that RateSetter wasnt aware at that time that Mr S had part-
exchanged his old car. 
But there doesnt seem to be any doubt  that Mr S did part-exchange his old car. The dealer 
said in an e-mail to RateSetter in June 2018  that Mr S had accepted £400 for that car. But 
Mr S says that he didnt  accept that offer and he part-exchanged his car on the 
understanding that he would receive  a fair value for his car which  would then be taken off the 
amount that he owed  under the agreement. I consider it to be unlikely that that wouldve 
happened. But I consider  it to be more likely than not that Mr S did provide his car to the 
dealer and that he hasnt received a payment for it. 
Ref: DRN65253262I dont consider that Mr S wouldve provided his car to the dealer  if he wasnt expecting to 
receive some payment for it. I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S entered  into the 
hire purchase agreement on the basis of his agreement with the dealer that he would receive 
a fair value for the car that he part-exchanged  and that he wouldnt have entered  into the 
agreement if he wasnt going  to receive a fair value  for that car. And I consider that 
RateSetter, as the provider  of the credit, is jointly liable with the dealer  for Mr S not receiving 
the fair value  for the car that he part-exchanged. 
The dealer  has offered  Mr S £400  (or £450) for that car  but it hasnt  provided  any evidence  
to show how it reached  that value   and it hasnt responded  to the investigators  request for 
an explanation  of its valuation. The investigator has researched the fair value of the car that 
Mr S part-exchanged which takes  account  of the cars specification and its mileage of about  
112,000 - and she found that the average fair value was £1,766. I consider that Mr S should 
receive that amount for the car that he part-exchanged. 
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  in these  circumstances for RateSetter to pay 
£1,766 to Mr S for the fair value of the car that he part-exchanged, with interest. Mr S has 
had significant  issues with the dealer  but Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require RateSetter to pay him any compensation for those  issues. But 
Mr S has been caused distress and inconvenience  because of the issues  with the car that 
was supplied to him - and that is something for which RateSetter is responsible. So I find 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £250 compensation for that distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr S says that hes been unable to work because of the stress that these issues have 
caused him. Whilst I sympathise with him for all of the difficulties  that hes experienced, Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that his stress  or in inability to work  has 
been caused solely and exclusively by the issues with the car. I consider that the outcome of 
Mr Ss complaint to RateSetter was fair and reasonable: it upheld his complaint, accepted  
his rejection of the car and unwound  the agreement.  And I dont consider that it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require RateSetter to pay any compensation 
to Mr S other  than as set out above.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  Retail Money  
Market Limited, trading  as RateSetter, to:
1. Pay £1,766  to Mr S for the fair value of the car that he part-exchanged.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Pay £250 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires RateSetter to deduct  tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 2 above. RateSetter  must give Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Ref: DRN65253263Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525326