K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) declining his claim under a 
buildings and contents insurance policy. Mr P was represented by his son on the claim. He 
lives with him and has a power of attorney. Mr P is represented by his MP on his complaint 
to us. For ease I have referred to Mr Ps son as Mr P2.
background
Mr P has a buildings and contents  policy  through  a building society. The policy is 
underwritten and administered by RSA.
Mr Ps claim is for damage as a result  of some work carried  out to his property by 
contractors. As Mr P2 dealt with the contractors, Ive referred to him throughout, but I want  to 
make it clear  that the property is owned  by Mr P and the policy is in Mr Ps name.
Mr P2 says that he was cold called in the summer of 2018  by some contractors who asked if 
hed like work done to Mr Ps driveway.  He declined,  but agreed theyd fix a loose roof tile. 
Mr P2 had already arranged for some work  to be done to the roof some months earlier,  but 
the contractors criticised this work and recommended further work. They  quoted over £3,000 
and it was agreed they would carry out the further  work. 
The contractors were  at the property for several  days over a two-week period and returned 
on a few occasions saying further works  were  required. During the time the work  was being 
carried out, the contractors kept raising  their price and Mr P2 said he observed one of them  
pulling wood  from the roof structure and dismantling panelling and decking on the roof. And 
Mr P2 has said that by this stage he was scared of them because he had asked them  to 
stop, but they continued saying the work  was necessary. Mr P2 was then presented  with 
invoices of about £9,000.
Mr P2 has said the contractors damaged the walls  of Mr Ps home by pressure  washing  
them which continued  for five days and the intense noise frightened  Mr P. Mr P2 has also 
said they stripped  varnish and sealing around the doors, got paint over the windows, tiles 
and the power  washing  also damaged the pointing and brickwork. 
Mr P2 has also said storms  in September that year caused more damage to the property.
The work on the roof was to such a poor standard that Mr P2 had to ask a roofer  to carry out 
immediate repairs and when Mr P2 complained to the contractors, they sent two men to the 
property in October,  but he says they caused more  damage.
Mr P and P2 had paid over £23,000 to the contractors, so Mr P2 lodged a complaint  with 
trading standards and the police. 
Mr P2 commissioned  a surveyors report. And the surveyor said in his report  that there was 
over £11,000 worth  of repair works required to the roof. He concluded  by saying:
It is our considered opinion that general maintenance to the existing roof 
coverings would not be financially  responsible in its present state,  and would 
represent a significant risk to the buildings insurer who potentially may reject any 
claim made that could  be attributed to poor quality  materials or workmanship, 
prejudicing the policy cover opted for by the property owner
Ref: DRN68160372Mr P2 made  a claim on policy on behalf of Mr P. He sent RSA the surveyors report and 
copies of the invoices hed been given by the contractors. But RSA declined the claim on the 
basis Mr Ps policy  excludes poor workmanship.
Mr P2 challenged  this and asked RSA for further  clarification on the policy  terms of malicious  
damage and vandalism.  
RSA considered whether there  had been malicious  damage or vandalism to Mr Ps home, 
but said that the contractors intentions werent  to cause damage, as they were known to the 
police for taking money and performing unsatisfactory work. So, they felt they were entitled 
to rely on the exclusion for poor workmanship  to decline Mr Ps claim.
Mr P2 didnt  accept this. He said as the matter  was regarded as a criminal event, it could no 
longer be treated as faulty workmanship. In his opinion, if there was a successful 
prosecution, this would  mean that the contractors had acted maliciously.
Mr P2 argued that the property  was in Scotland, so Scottish law should apply and the 
Scottish equivalent of malicious  damage  is malicious mischief,  which  refers to acts of 
damage that can be of a physical and/or financial nature. He felt that no consideration had 
been taken of the financial  hurt Mr P had suffered. 
But RSA didnt change  their opinion and said the policy was subject to English law. They  
said that whilst the definition of malicious  mischief doesnt require damage to property, and 
may just include pure economic loss, the policy exclusion for poor workmanship still applied. 
RSA also said Mr Ps policy didnt cover accidental damage, so the damage caused by the 
pressure washing wasnt covered either. And they didnt  think  there was storm damage. 
Mr P2 complained to RSA. They acknowledged  they could have handled the claim better 
and paid £100 for distress and inconvenience, but they maintained Mr Ps claim wasnt  
covered. 
Mr P2 complained to us on behalf  of Mr P through his MP. The case was reviewed by one of 
our investigators and they said RSA was entitled  to decline Mr Ps claim. Mr P2 doesnt  
agree with our investigator and his MP has asked  for an ombudsmans  decision 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im so sorry for everything that Mr P and Mr P2 have been through.  I can tell that this must 
have been a terribly  stressful time for them both. But I do think RSA was entitled  to decline 
Mr Ps claim and Ive explained why below. 
My starting point is to look at what the policy covers. The policy  covers various insured 
events and these  include malicious damage, vandalism and storm damage.  And RSA have 
relied on a general  exclusion clause which applies to any claim, not just claims  involving  
tenants as Mr P2 has suggested. The wording of the exclusion is as follows:
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly  or indirectly  caused
Ref: DRN68160373by, or resulting from,  the following (except as covered by Home Emergency Cover
if youve chosen  this for your policy):
 vermin
 mechanical, electrical or electronic fault or breakdown
 poor or faulty design, workmanship  or materials.
Mr P2 says that he should be able to make  a claim under the policy for malicious damage 
and vandalism. So Ive started  by considering this, irrespective of the abovementioned 
exclusion. But I dont  think it can be classed as malicious damage or vandalism  and Ive 
explained why below. 
Ive noted that the word malicious isnt defined in the policy,  but I dont think the contractors 
can be said to have  caused damage  maliciously, because their intention was to extort  
money as opposed  to causing damage. And theyd been given permission to come onto the 
property and carry out the work.  Looking at all the evidence,  especially the surveyors  report, 
Im satisfied that the contractors didnt have the appropriate skills to carry out the work to an 
appropriate standard, but I dont think they caused  damage maliciously,  although I accept 
some of the things they did resulted in damage.
Mr P2 has said that because the property is in Scotland, Scottish  law should be applied.  He 
refers to a clause in the booklet  which says the following:
Under the laws of the United Kingdom (England,
Scotland, Wales  and Northern Ireland), both you and we
may choose the law which applies to this contract  (to
the extent permitted by those  laws).  Unless you and we
agree otherwise, the law which applies to this contract is
the law which applies to the part of the United Kingdom
in which  you live. If you live in the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man, the law of the part where  you live will apply.
RSA have told Mr P2 that, the policy is based on English law. But I think  Mr P2 is right and 
its Scottish law that applies. This is because the above wording says unless both parties 
agree otherwise (which they have not in this case) the law which  applies is the law which 
applies in the part of the United Kingdom you live (you being Mr P as the policyholder). So, 
Ive considered what constitutes  malicious  damage  in Scottish law. And it seems to me that 
vandalism, which  is a statutory offence, incorporates this. And I dont  think the damage to  
Mr Ps property  was caused  by vandalism as defined. 
Vandalism is defined in Section 52 of the Criminal Law (Consolidation)  (Scotland) Act 1995: 
"(1) Subject to subsection  (2) below,  any person  who, without reasonable excuse, 
wilfully or recklessly destroys or damages any property belonging to another  shall be 
guilty of the offence  of vandalism. 
(2) It shall not be competent to charge acts which constitute the offence of wilful fire-
raising as vandalism under this section."
I dont think the contractors destroyed or damaged Mr Ps property without reasonable 
excuse, wilfully or recklessly.  This is because they had permission to be at the property and 
Ref: DRN68160374submitted invoices, which initially, Mr P2 believed to be from a legitimate business. It was 
only later that Mr P2 reported them to trading standards,  and this is indicative of the fact that 
Mr P2 recognised them as traders,  and not vandals.  Ive seen the acknowledgement  from 
the police  saying theyll progress to report the contractors for fraud.  So, at this stage,  I dont 
think its right to say that theyll be prosecuted for vandalism. 
In summary,  I dont think that the damage  to Mr Ps property was caused by malicious  
damage or vandalism either under English or Scottish law. And this means I dont think it 
was caused by an insured event, as theres  no other  insured event under Mr Ps particular 
policy that I think could  be said to be the cause  of the damage.
I appreciate Mr P2 also tried to claim for storm damage,  and Ive seen the evidence  and 
images that hes provided. But I think its more than likely than not that damage due to 
weather occurred as a result of poor workmanship, as opposed  to being caused by a storm.
For completeness Ive also looked at whether the general exclusion for faulty workmanship 
as mentioned above, applies  and I think it does. This is because the roof survey  suggests 
this is the case as it confirms the use of poor-quality materials or workmanship. It also 
confirms that a local contractor was instructed to carry  out the works. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr P2 agreed with the contractors that they should carry out the works. So I think RSA can 
decline the claim by relying on this exclusion  anyway. 
Overall, Im satisfied RSA was entitled to decline Mr Ps claim, so its not appropriate  for me 
to uphold his complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P2 on behalf of 
Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6816037