K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs C bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint because:
 A box was ticked on the signed application form to indicate  Mrs C wanted PPI. So I 
think FICL made Mrs C aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. It was a long time ago, so I can understand why she doesnt 
remember this. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs C doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. While she had some sick pay, the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this and also covered her for unemployment.  So I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Cs comments,  including what shes said about  having medical 
insurance through her work, FICL  having  upheld a complaint about another credit  card PPI, 
and that she doesnt think she completed  the application form  other  than signing it. But 
these points dont  change my conclusion. The medical insurance wouldnt have helped her 
keep up with her credit  card payments if she couldnt work. Having looked at the specific  
circumstances of the sale of this PPI policy, I dont think it was mis-sold. And whether or not 
Mrs C ticked the box on the application  form herself, she did sign the form to confirm it had 
been filled in correctly. So I think shed have been  aware she had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that by signing  the application she confirmed that she wanted it. 
Ref: DRN64670762my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467076