K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold  
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card.
background
Egg was an internet based bank. Mrs M applied online for her credit  card with PPI via the 
Egg website  in April 2002.
Mrs M mainly says she cant recall the specific  circumstances but she was aware that PPI 
was recommended when she applied for her card. Mrs M says PPI wasnt something she 
needed.
Our adjudicator felt we should uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. Our adjudicator said that the terms 
of the policy  Mrs M took out stated that a customer wasnt covered for accident and sickness 
claims if they resulted  from existing  medical  conditions. Mrs M told us about an ongoing 
medical condition  she had when she applied for her credit card. Our adjudicator thought  that 
if Egg had made it clear to Mrs M at the time that she wouldnt have been able to claim if she 
was off work  due to this condition, then she wouldnt have taken out the policy.   
Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that as it had seen contradictory 
information, it required evidence to show when Mrs Ms condition was diagnosed, how often 
it had led to her being off work and how it was managed when it sold her the PPI.
Mrs M made  some further enquiries  but had problems getting hold of her medical records  
and she hasnt been able to obtain the information Egg has asked to see. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I think  Egg made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form that I think its likely Mrs M completed, she had to select the Yes 
option if she decided  to include PPI. Eggs records say she did this. There  was an option  to 
say No and Egg tells us her application wouldve continued without PPI being included  if 
shed done that. Mrs M had to select one of those  options to proceed with her application. So 
I think she wouldve been aware that it was up to her to say if she wanted the PPI at the time 
- even if shes forgotten this now. On balance, I find that Egg made Mrs M aware that she 
had a choice about protecting her repayments  and she wanted to do so at the time.  
As Mrs M took out her card over the internet, I find that Egg didnt make any personal 
recommendation to Mrs M advising her to have PPI. So it didnt have to check if the policy  
was suitable for her. But it still had to make sure that it gave  Mrs M clear enough information 
so she was able to make a proper decision about  whether  PPI was right for her. And if this 
didnt happen,  then I have to think about  whether this made any overall difference  to Mrs M. 
Ive taken carefully into account  what Mrs M has told us about her circumstances  including 
her health.  
Ref: DRN67316332Mrs M was eligible for the policy.  The policy wouldve  protected her if she was disabled  or 
too sick to work as well as paying  out if shed lost her job. It wouldve paid out on top of her 
sick pay and in full for up to 12 months  - longer  than Mrs M says she couldve  depended on 
getting full sick pay from her employer. 
So I think the policy offered Mrs M a useful benefit  at what  couldve been  a difficult  time  
especially as her sick pay wouldve only been half her normal pay after 6 months and she 
mightve had extra  costs as a result of being off work sick. The PPI wouldve covered her 
Egg card monthly repayments and cleared her card balance if shed needed to claim for the 
full 12 months. 
I dont know if Mrs M wouldve always had savings  to rely on if shed needed to make  a 
claim. But the PPI wouldve left intact for the future the small savings shes  mentioned.
Mrs M wouldnt have been covered for a pre-existing medical condition she told us she had 
when she took out the PPI. Although she hadnt  previously mentioned this condition  to Egg, 
Ive no reason to doubt what shes told us about when  her medical condition was diagnosed.  
I think its reasonable to think  that she was reminded of this during her phone  call with our 
adjudicator once she was told the date that shed taken out this credit card. So I dont  think  
theres any need to see her medical  records going back to the time her condition  was 
diagnosed. I think  its fair to rely on what shes now been able to tell us about her condition.   
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mrs M had any reason to think  that this condition  was 
likely to affect her ability to work when she arranged the PPI. I say this because  she told our 
adjudicator that her condition had been diagnosed  around 2 years before she took out her 
Egg card and it hadnt affected her work  at all and she hadnt taken a day off work with it.
So it appears that Mrs M wouldnt have expected her condition to lead to her being off work 
because of it and needing to make  a sickness claim for this reason, when she took out the 
PPI. 
And Mrs M still had the benefit of other cover that the policy  offered. So I dont think  its likely  
that having clearer information about the circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out 
wouldve made any difference  to Mrs Ms decision to take it out. 
Next to where Mrs M was asked to decide about the PPI on the application she completed, 
the purpose of the cover  is broadly described,  the cost is set out and theres  some  
information about the benefits it offers. Overall, I think its fair to say that the policy provided 
Mrs M with the protection broadly described  on the website which shed indicated she was 
willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable for her. And she 
could cancel it without  further cost if her situation  changed or she no longer wanted  it.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation. 
In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mrs M off taking it out. At the time, 
she had no reason to think shed be off work  sick as a result of her ongoing  medical 
condition. So I cant fairly say that shes  lost out as a result of paying for the policy. 
Ref: DRN67316333This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell Egg that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. Mrs M has also mentioned having had other PPI complaints 
upheld. I dont have  any details of these, but we consider each complaint on its own facts 
and circumstances  and, looking  at the information Ive got about this particular sale,  I dont at 
present think I can fairly and reasonably  say the PPI was mis-sold to her.
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6731633