K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains National  Westminster  Bank  Plc will not refund some  disputed 
transactions.  She also complains it did not treat her sympathetically in how it demanded she 
repay the overdrawn balance.
Finally, she complains it unfairly placed  a CIFAS fraud marker against her name.
background
Miss W complained about several transactions carried out on her account over a weekend in 
February 2018.  She said she had neither made  these transactions  nor authorised them.   
The money spent  from her current account not only included an amount from an 
unauthorised overdraft facility  but also some money which had been  transferred from a 
savings account  into the current account via online banking.
NatWest did not uphold her complaint.  The transactions  were  made  using Miss Ws genuine 
card and PIN and as there was no identified compromise of the PIN, it concluded  Miss W 
must have  made them herself.  In relation to the transfer from the savings account into the 
current account, this payment  was made  via Miss Ws online banking.   For this to be 
possible, the person making the transfer  would  need  access  to secure information which 
only Miss W should have knowledge of.
With regards the overdrawn balance, it had agreed to place  the recovery  for this on hold  
but subsequently defaulted  Miss Ws account  and sold the debt on to a third-party  debt 
recovery agent.
When Miss W brought the complaint to this service, our investigator looked into matters for 
her.  She (the investigator) thought NatWest had not dealt with Miss Ws complaint fairly  in 
relation to the overdrawn balance and the CIFAS marker.
In relation to the disputed transactions, our investigator didnt think  she could ask NatWest to 
do anymore because she thought the evidence suggested Miss W had authorised someone 
to carry out the transactions  by disclosing her PIN and online banking  details.   But she did 
ask NatWest to do the following:
-remove the default marker  from Miss Ws credit file
-contact her to arrange a repayment  plan for just the overdrawn balance  with all 
charges and interest removed
-remove the CIFAS marker
-pay Miss W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by the placing of 
the default marker and the CIFAS marker
Miss W agreed  with the investigators findings   but NatWest did not.  It said the CIFAS 
marker had been  correctly  placed because Miss W had attempted to have  her money  
returned to her despite both NatWest and now this service  concluding  that she had 
authorised the payments.
It also disputed the redress figure  of £500  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN69244372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss W accepted the investigators view in relation to the disputed transactions, I do not 
intend to address that aspect of her complaint apart  from where  it might  be relevant to my 
findings on the other aspects of the complaint.   However, I should say from the outset that I 
am satisfied  that these  transactions were authorised.  The exact  type of authorisation will be 
considered below.
CIFAS
The test for recording  a CIFAS fraud  marker  is a high one.
NatWest needs  to have satisfied  the following:
-that there are reasonable  grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted;
-that the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
I do not think NatWest has met this test and therefore I agree that the marker should  be 
removed.
NatWest submit that as this service has not upheld the disputed transactions  part of this 
complaint, Miss W has made a fraudulent claim and so, it is justified in recording the marker 
against her.  But an allegation of fraud is a serious allegation and one which needs to be 
supported by evidence which must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
We know from the evidence provided to us that Miss W herself  could not have carried out 
these transactions  because she was at work for the most part  and I make a finding to that 
effect.  But as I have already said - whilst she may not have made the transactions,  NatWest  
is still entitled to treat them  as being  authorised as I think the evidence shows  Miss W 
consented to someone  else making  them.
What I cannot make  a finding on, however, is whether  these transactions  were carried out by 
someone who had Miss Ws actual authority to carry them out or an apparent authority to do 
so.  In the case of the latter, I think NatWest would be incorrect in assuming that Miss W has 
wilfully committed  fraud.  
NatWest will know  that the 2017  PSRs (the relevant rules  here) allow for transactions to be 
carried out by an agent on behalf of the consumer.   Based on the evidence  in this complaint, 
it is more likely than not, Miss W has shared her details with another.  But NatWest simply 
does not have enough evidence to say whether these transactions were carried  out under  
Miss Ws actual  or apparent authority.  So, I think it has failed to meet the burden it must  
reach in placing  a CIFAS  marker.
I note also that NatWest has been  in direct contact with CIFAS and it (NatWest) submits  
CIFAS has supported its action in the loading  of the marker.  Emphasis seems to have  been  
placed as to when Miss W reported  her card as lost or stolen  the timing  being  pivotal as to 
whether the marker has been correctly  placed  or not.
Ref: DRN69244373I do not agree with that argument   and place very little weight on when Miss W reported her 
card as lost.  And I would remind NatWest that whilst I need  to consider relevant rules,  
principles, laws and good industry practice,  the decision  on whether the CIFAS marker has 
been fairly and reasonably placed is a matter for me.
overdrawn balance  and default marker
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I uphold  these  aspects of the 
complaint.  NatWest has a duty to treat those in financial difficulties fairly  and whilst I 
accept it did this when  Miss W first made contact, I think it acted unfairly when  it then 
recorded the default and passed the debt on to debt collectors  especially as it knew Miss 
W was in a dispute over the transactions and her liability for them.
In the circumstances, I would also encourage Miss W to contact NatWest and arrange  an 
affordable repayment  plan in order to clear this debt.
For both the CIFAS marker and default marker  being recorded unfairly, I think  £500 is a fair 
and reasonable sum which NatWest should pay in compensation.  Of course, if NatWest 
chooses to set off the debt owed by Miss W against this figure of £500,  then that would be 
matter for NatWest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
National Westminster Bank Plc should:
-remove the CIFAS marker  recorded against Miss W with immediate effect
-remove the default marker  recorded on her credit file with immediate effect and 
update all credit reference  agencies
-unwind the overdrawn balance debt back to £272.62
-invite Miss W to come  to an arrangement with regards the repayment of this debt (if 
this is not to be deducted from the compensation figure)
-pay Miss W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused (minus the £272.62 if 
NatWest chooses  to secure  payment  via this means)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6924437