K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) declared his motor  
insurance policy void.
background
Mr M says he arranged  his policy through a broker who was recommended to him, he says 
the only details  he has for the broke  is a first name and phone number.
Skyfire decided to void Mr Ms policy from its start on the grounds that there were serious 
misrepresentations at the time of arranging the policy.  These included the incorrect  date of 
birth for Mr M, the incorrect date he passed his driving test and the incorrect  amount  years 
no claims discount he held. If these details had been correct Skyfire  has shown the premium 
for the policy wouldve been considerably more expensive. Skyfire  refunded  all monies paid 
to it back to the card it had on file, which had been  used  to pay the premiums.
Mr M was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service.  He says he didnt 
provide the incorrect  information, it was the broker and so he shouldnt be held responsible  
for it. He would like the voidance  removed, so he doesnt have to declare it to future insurers  
as it will affect the cost of his insurance going forward. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  In summary she 
considered that:
Skyfire had shown  the that the incorrect information resulted in Mr M being charged  
significantly less than if the correct details had been  declared.  She was satisfied that 
this was a qualifying misrepresentation and that Skyfire  was entitled to void the 
policy. 
Skyfire had made quite a few attempts to contact  Mr M to clarify the information  and 
also to talk to him about the discrepancies.
She felt that Mr M would need  to take this up with the broker,  and if he was able to 
provide more details  for the broker then this service could  help him with that. But if 
the broker was not regulated, as she suspected, then he would need to take legal 
advice as we wouldnt be able to help with that.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator;  he said:
The insurer should take the matter  forward with the broker.
 He feels he is being treated  like a criminal.  
He didnt respond to the insurer because he wasnt at his home address as he was 
away studying.
Ref: DRN61094782The matter  has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
My role as an ombudsman is to consider the individual complaint and decide if the regulated 
business has done something  wrong and if it needs to do anything to put that right.
Having done so, although I recognise  Mr Ms frustration, Im not persuaded that Skyfire has 
acted wrongly or unfairly in the circumstances. Its clear that the information  the broker  
provided to Skyfire was misrepresented. I think its more likely than not that the broker did 
this to obtain a cheaper premium for Mr M. As such I consider it was entitled to void his 
policy. 
I understand that Mr M was away studying  and says he didnt receive the correspondence  
from Skyfire, when  it was trying to contact  him. But Skyfire has shown that it sent 
correspondence by email and letter and it also tried to contact  him by phone, leaving a 
voicemail before voiding the policy. So I dont reasonably think  it needed  to do more.
I do believe that Mr M has unfortunately been  a victim of a ghost Broker. This means  that 
he has used someone  to arrange insurance for him and that person isnt regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority and so isnt a legitimate insurance broker.  Because  of this his 
actions arent something this service can look into. I dont believe that the insurer needs to 
take this matter forward on Mr Ms behalf. It is however a criminal matter and something Mr 
M could report to the police as a crime should he wish to do so.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ms frustration  at the situation he has found himself  in. Im 
satisfied that Skyfire acted fairly when voiding his policy. It follows; I wont be asking it to do 
anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6109478