K821x#15complaint
Mr C1s complaint  concerns delays in making an ISA transfer to Aberdeen Standard  Fund 
Managers Limited (ASI). Hes represented  in bringing his complaint by his son, Mr C2.
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint  
should be upheld   because of delays  caused  by Aberdeen and the associated  trouble 
Mr C1 experienced  and what compensation  should be paid to him. 
Mr C1 accepted  my provisional  decision and Aberdeen had nothing  further  it wished to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given I have no additional comments to consider I see no reason to depart from the 
reasoning and conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Aberdeen 
Standard Fund Managers Limited  to pay Mr C1 compensation as set out below.
The difference in the value of his holding as of 18 September  2018 and the value at 
the point at which he sold it in October  2018. To this amount should  be added  a 
return equivalent to that achieved by the Dynamic  Distribution and Ethical Corporate 
Bond funds (split 50/50)  over the same  period.
£300 for the trouble  and upset caused,  minus  any amount already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68023192COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr C1s complaint concerns delays in making  an ISA transfer to Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers 
Limited (ASI). Hes represented in bringing his complaint by his son, Mr C2.
 
background
Mr C1 instigated a transfer  of his ISA (a holding of just over £40,000)  from his existing provider to ASI 
in late August 2018. The existing provider was planning to move Mr C1s investment to a product 
range administered  off-shore  at the beginning  of October 2018, which  he didnt want  to happen. The 
transfer request  was for the existing holding  to be split equally  between  two new funds   the Dynamic 
Distribution and Ethical Corporate Bond funds. 
Mr C2 chased up the transfer in mid-September 2018 and was reassured that all was well. But that 
was incorrect  and at the start of October 2018 Mr C1s holding was still with the existing  provider so 
the move to the off-shore product range took place. This meant that by the time ASI did actually 
request the transfer  Mr Cs investments were  no longer in the account  from which  the transfer was 
supposed to be made. Mr C1 retained the investment with the existing provider, off-shore, until 
several weeks later when  he sold it. 
Mr C2, on Mr C1s behalf, made  a complaint  to ASI about the delay in January 2019. ASI 
acknowledged it had been  responsible for the delay and offered Mr C1 £200  in compensation for the 
trouble caused. But Mr C2 felt that Mr C1 had incurred  a loss because of the delay, which he 
quantified as the difference in value  of Mr C1s holding at the point it transferred off-shore  and when it 
was sold  just under £3,000.
The complaint was referred to this service, where  our investigator concluded that the complaint  
should be upheld. He felt that Mr C1 had potentially incurred losses, both on the sale of the original 
holding and on a later reinvestment  of £15,000 into the two new funds. This had been  made in 
November 2018 and the investigator  felt couldve been made earlier if the delays hadnt occurred. He 
also felt that ASI should increase its offer of compensation to £300.
ASI didnt  agree  with the investigators view.  It felt that it hadnt been given an opportunity to correct 
the situation for Mr C1 because  hed sold his holding  and reinvested (in part) before  raising the issue 
with it. It also noted that his actions  following  this holding being moved  off-shore differed so much 
from his initial intentions that it was very difficult to try and put him in the position  hed have been in if 
the delay hadnt occurred.  
As no agreement could  be reached  the matters been referred  to me to review.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
ASI has accepted  responsibility for the delays  in transferring Mr C1s ISA investments. So, this 
provisional decision  deals  only with the matter of what compensation  is reasonably due to Mr C1. 
In respect of the circumstances around the delay, as I understand it, Mr C1s original  intention  was to 
transfer the £40,000  (approx.) he had invested in his existing providers ISA in the Pan European 
Smaller Companies  fund (which was to be moved to off-shore administration) to the new provider,  
ASI, split between two new funds  the Dynamic Distribution and Ethical  Corporate Bond funds. 
When it became  apparent that the transfer hadnt taken place in time to avoid  the move to the off-
shore administration Mr C1 wanted to avoid, he sold his whole holding in the Pan European  fund, 
Ref: DRN68023193some weeks later on 30 October  2018. He then reinvested £15,000 with ASI into the two new funds 
on 26 November 2018. Mr C2 says the remainder of the £40,000 was split between  Mr C1s wifes 
ISA and Mr C1s bank account.  
Generally speaking, when this type of situation arises  a delay in transferring investments   wed 
look to put the matter  right by as near as is possible putting  the consumer  in the position  theyd have 
been in if the delay hadnt occurred. So, for instance, if the delay meant the new investment  cost more 
than it wouldve done if it had been  purchased earlier, wed instruct the business  to pay the difference  
in cost. 
In this case, had the delay not occurred and the transfer completed on 18 September 2018 (the date 
ASI has accepted  as when the transfer would most likely  have been completed if everything had been 
done correctly) then Mr C1 wouldve had his whole original holding invested in the Dynamic 
Distribution and Ethical Corporate Bond funds, as intended.
ASI has stressed that when  the failure  occurred  Mr C1 didnt contact it to see if the transfer could still 
take place. Instead he waited several weeks before  selling the whole holding  and then reinvesting  the 
proceeds differently   some invested with ASI in the funds originally intended, but some elsewhere.
But I can understand why, once Mr C1s original intentions hadnt worked out as planned,  he might 
have chosen to do something different. Because of the delay caused by ASI he found  himself  at the 
end of September 2018 invested in a fund he didnt want to be invested in, which  was administered  
abroad, something hed been deliberately trying to avoid. And, moreover,  the price of the fund was 
falling. 
I accept that Mr C1 or his son couldve contacted ASI to see if it was possible to recreate the intended 
position. But I can equally  see why they might have felt that having been so misled  on their previous 
contact with ASI, when  Mr C2 was told the transfer was proceeding correctly, that they might have 
taken the decision  to sell the holding  before the price  fell any further.  
Ultimately, regardless of what did or didnt happen after the transfer failed  to be carried out in time,  if it 
had happened in the correct time frame, as ASI has accepted it shouldve done,  then as of 18 
September 2018 Mr C1 wouldve had his holding split equally between  the Dynamic Distribution  and 
Ethical Corporate Bond  funds with a value  equal to that of his holding in the Pan European fund as of 
that date.  
So, I think its reasonable to conclude  that Mr C1 did incur a loss as a result of this matter. And that 
the difference in the value of his holding  as of 18 September 2018  and the value at the point  in when 
he felt he had to sell it represents a fair appraisal of that loss in all the circumstances. 
I appreciate ASIs points about an element of the loss being Mr C1s responsibility because of his 
decision to sell his holding rather than contact ASI. But I dont think his actions were  entirely 
unreasonable. Mr C2 had, after all, encountered a series of errors when hed contacted ASI in mid-
September. So, I understand why he mightve been unwilling to place the matter back in ASIs hands, 
especially as the price  was falling. 
The investigator was of the view that interest at 8% simple should be added  to any loss amount, from 
18 September 2018 to date of settlement.  ASI has disputed this as it feels it was clear that the 
compensation was intended  to replicate  Mr C1s position as if hed remained invested, split equally 
between the Dynamic  Distribution and Ethical Corporate Bond funds. I have some sympathy with this 
point and consider that the return on the loss amount should equate to the return achieved over the 
same period by the two new funds.
The investigators  view also suggested that compensation be paid in respect of the £15,000 Mr C1 
invested in November 2018, by way of a comparison  with the price on 18 September  2018. But as I 
understand it, this calculation  doesnt show  a loss, as the price of the two funds  was more favourable 
to Mr C1 in November 2018 than in September 2018. 
Ref: DRN68023194(As an aside, I think this underlines the fact that Mr C1 did incur a loss, as his holding  in the Pan 
European fund fell significantly in price  between  6 October 2018 and 30 October, and doubtless 
outside this period  hence his selling.  But the funds he shouldve been invested  in clearly didnt fall in 
value in the same way.)
Finally, theres the matter of compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr C1. ASI offered  him 
£200 for the poor level of service offered  in the calls made  to chase up the transfer, which involved 
numerous errors. The investigator felt this figure should be increased  by £100 to reflect the additional 
inconvenience created  by Mr C1 having to withdraw  his money under off-shore  administration, which 
he shouldnt have had to do. I agree that this is reasonable is the circumstances. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submission I receive,  Im currently of the view that 
Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited should pay Mr C1 compensation  as set out below.
The difference in the value of Mr C1s holding  as of 18 September  2018 and the value at the 
point at which he sold it in October 2018. To this amount should be added  a return equivalent 
to that achieved  by the Dynamic Distribution  and Ethical Corporate Bond funds over the same 
period.
£300  for the trouble  and upset caused, minus any amount already paid. 
Ref: DRN6802319