K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R bought the policy in connection  with a credit card that she took out in 1997. HSBC  
cant say for sure whether the policy was taken out at the same time as the credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R applied for her card in 1997  and its possible that she bought PPI at the same 
time. But HSBC doesnt know  for sure if this is the case.  Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think  its most likely  Mrs R bought 
the PPI at the same  time as applying for her credit card.
I think its likely  that HSBC made  Mrs R aware the PPI was optional  and she chose 
to take it. I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mrs R and HSBC  when the 
policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are no longer available. 
Thats not surprising  as its many years  since  the policy was sold. But on balance I 
think its unlikely that PPI wouldve been added to Mrs Rs account unless shed been 
made aware of it and agreed to take the cover. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
HSBC didnt make Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs R says she would 
have received some employer benefits  similar to the kind the PPI provided, and that 
she had some savings. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to her employer 
benefits, and wouldve  meant  she couldve used her sick pay and savings to pay for 
other expenses.  So I think  the policy wouldve been helpful to Mrs R if she couldnt 
work. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs R would have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ref: DRN69227572Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments,  including what shes said about  the evidence  
thats been used to assess her other  means  of covering the credit card repayments.  Mrs R 
says the combination of her employer sick pay and savings  meant  HSBCs recommendation 
to buy the policy wasnt suitable. Ive noted  everything Mrs R has said.
It seems  there is a discrepancy in some of the information Mrs R has provided. I accept that 
she submitted a questionnaire to this service  dated  13 June 2018, about a different PPI 
policy sold in 2003. One of the questions on the questionnaire said:
D.6 If you hadnt  been able to work  (because you were ill, in an accident or had been made 
redundant), would you have had any other way of making your repayments?
In response to this question, Mrs R said:
My family were  in a position  to help me.
Mrs R submitted a different questionnaire  to this service about  the 1997  PPI policy  on 20 
August 2018.  In response to the same question, she said she had savings worth  between six 
and twelve months of her salary.
But Ive seen another questionnaire which was also dated 13 June  2018.  This was sent 
directly to HSBC by Mrs Rs representative on 16 July 2018.  In response to question  D.6 on 
that questionnaire,  Mrs R answered:
Family was in a position to help me.
So from what Ive seen,  its not clear whether Mrs R had savings or whether she wouldve 
had to rely on her family if she couldnt  work.  
Keeping in mind  this discrepancy, and without  anything else to support what  Mrs R has said 
about her savings, I havent  been able to safely  conclude that Mrs R had savings that meant 
HSBCs recommendation  to take the policy was unsuitable. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6922757