K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that AWP P&C SA further  damaged  his car when it recovered it under his 
roadside assistance insurance  policy.  He wants £3,000 for the repair  costs.  
background
Mr Gs car broke down whilst he was abroad. The car was recovered to a garage and then 
AWP recovered it to Mr Gs home  address. Mr G said there was further damage to his cars 
bodywork and he wanted AWP  to pay for its repair. He also said the keys had been lost. 
AWP offered  to cover the cost for the replacement of the keys up to £250  on production of 
an invoice. But AWP said the bodywork  damage  was pre-existing. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought there 
wasnt sufficient evidence  that AWP had caused  the further damage to Mr Gs car. She also 
thought that AWP  had reasonably considered the evidence  available when deciding that the 
damage was pre-existing.  
Mr G replied that when the car had broken down it had been in perfect order and unmarked.  
He said AWP should be responsible for how the car was stored at the garage and for its 
missing keys. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said his car was returned  to him by AWP a month after his breakdown. He said it had 
been kept on a busy road and was scratched. He said the keys had been  lost and so entry 
had been forced causing  damage. And he said when the car was forced off the recovery  
truck problems had been caused to the brakes  and steering. He said he wasnt now able to 
use the car. I can understand that this must be very frustrating for him.
The adjudicator has already explained  that this service doesnt assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle  would  be caused  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints  is to determine 
whether an insurance  company has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for repairs.
From what  I can see, Mr Gs car was recovered by a private  company  and taken to its 
garage. These werent  acting  as AWPs agents.  So I cant  reasonably hold AWP responsible 
for any damage that occurred to the car whilst in their care.  
Mr G said his car had been damaged whilst in storage. But I havent seen any evidence,  
such as a condition  report, to show what the condition of the car was when Mr G left it at the 
garage. AWP asked  Mr G for a copy of the initial condition report when  he was first 
recovered. But I cant see that he provided  this. 
Ref: DRN60484932AWPs recovery agent completed a report with photographs  when  he collected the car for 
repatriation. This showed that the car was scratched and of an average condition. But I cant 
say that AWP should be responsible for this as I cant see what the car was like before 
AWPs inspection.
So I think AWP reasonably considered  the evidence available and justified its decision not to 
pay for repairs to the cars bodywork as it thought there was pre-existing damage.  
Mr G said his car had been damaged when delivered to his home. AWP asked for a repairs  
estimate for this. But I cant  see that Mr G provided  this. So I think  AWP didnt have any 
independent evidence to show that it had caused further damage.  And so I cant say that it 
needs to pay for these  repairs.  
Mr G said the garage had lost his cars  keys. Looking at AWPs notes, it seems that Mr G 
posted the cars keys in a letter box at the garage  site, but this may have been the wrong 
box. I can see that AWP made several attempts to locate the keys and the garage also 
checked other letter boxes, without success. So I cant say that AWP was wholly  responsible 
for the loss of the keys and I think it made  reasonable attempts to locate them. 
Mr G said he didnt have a spare key, and he was unwilling to buy a replacement. So I think  
AWP had no alternative  but to force  entry to his car in order to repatriate it. This caused  
additional damage. 
But I think AWP gave Mr G fair warning of this and offered him the option of ordering a 
replacement key, which he declined.  So I cant say that AWP should  be responsible for any 
damage caused by its forced entry into the car. AWP  also offered to pay for a replacement 
key up to a £250 limit, on production of an invoice for this. I think that was fair and 
reasonable. But I cant see that Mr G took up this offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6048493