K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr S payment  protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and many of the original documents from 
the time are not now available. Also I wouldnt  expect someone to recall in detail everything  
that happened so long ago. Ive borne in mind these  difficulties in the evidence  when 
considering the case. As with all cases,  Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have 
happened, based on what evidence  there  is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I dont have any evidence  to suggest  that Santander failed to present the PPI as optional, or 
that Mr S didnt agree to take the PPI> 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr S, and this means it had a higher standard to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Ss 
particular circumstances.  But it looks to me as though  a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss situation at the time. Its likely  Mr S was 
eligible for the policy. And finding  yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr S received any work 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any severance pay he might have received (although, as he was technically self-employed, 
he might  not have been entitled to any at all from the company he was working for). And it 
would have put off the time when  hed need to fall back on any savings or other means he 
may have  had for paying the mortgage  and other living costs. 
This all would have  put Mr S in a more secure  position, if hed eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt  
afford the PPI when  he took it out. 
Mr Ss representatives say that, because Mr S was self-employed, he wouldnt have been 
able to claim for unemployment. Its true that many PPI policies did make it more difficult for 
self-employed people  to make a claim. But Ive looked at the terms of this particular policy, 
and it wasnt harder  to claim  than if he had been directly  employed.  
Ref: DRN61286682So, overall, I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation 
was suitable. It would then be up to Mr S to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr S took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr S would  have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying  for it monthly,  
so he could cancel  it at any time without further  cost if his situation changed.
So the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. But Santander  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S 
because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN61286683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6128668