K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Europ  Assistance S.A (Europ) didn't pay their travel 
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs I were due to go on a short trip when  the airline cancelled  their flight. They  were  
unable to get alternative flights  so had to cancel their trip. The airline refunded  the costs of 
the unused flight  tickets. But Mr and Mrs I were out of pocket for some other expenses  
including parking and accommodation. They  claimed on their policy to recover  those costs.
Europ turned down  their claim, initially because it said Mr and Mrs I hadn't provided  a letter 
from the airline saying  why the flight was cancelled. Mr I pointed  out that hed provided a 
letter from the airline confirming the flight was cancelled - although it didn't give the reason. 
Hed asked the airline to explain  the reason for the flight cancellation  in writing but it hadn't 
replied. So he provided other information  from the media which  was widely  available  
showing why the flights were cancelled that day. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  Europ had dealt with Mr and Mrs I fairly. She noted  that the 
airline itself had sold the policy. So she thought Europ could have contacted it directly to find 
out why the flight  was cancelled. But, in any event, in the meantime  the airline had given Mr I 
a letter  explaining the reason for the cancellation.  So she said Europ should pay the claim. 
Europ refused to pay the claim as it didn't think the policy covered the circumstances  of the 
flight cancellation. Our adjudicator explained why she felt that the policy  did cover the claim. 
Europ didn't agree so the complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr and Mrs Is policy says that it will pay a claim in the following  circumstances.
SECTION F2: HOLIDAY ABANDONMENT
What is covered:
The insurer  will pay, up to the amount  shown  in the Schedule of Benefits, for travel  and 
accommodation expenses, which you have paid or for which  you are contractually obliged  to 
pay and which you cannot recover from any source:
a. if your holiday  or journey is necessarily cancelled following  a delay of 24 hours or more  
from the scheduled departure time due to:
 strike, or
 industrial action,  or
 adverse weather conditions, or
 mechanical breakdown  of, or derangement of, the scheduled public transport on which you 
are booked to travel.
Mr and Mrs Is flight was cancelled because of Air traffic control restrictions  and adverse 
weather.  Given that weather  conditions was a principal reason for their trip to be abandoned 
I think this part of the policy applies.  So I think Europ should  pay their claim.
Ref: DRN68937932Europ doesn't  agree;  it said that claims under the travel disruption section of the policy 
doesn't cover:
Any compensation  for a flight cancellation, which is not due to a delay of in excess of four 
hours
Europ said that as Mr and Mrs Is flight wasn't cancelled because  of a delay in excess of four 
hours the claim isn't covered. But Mr and Mrs Is claim isn't for compensation for travel  
disruption, its for their unrecoverable  costs covered under the holiday abandonment  section 
of the policy. Europ hasn't explained  why it thinks that the travel disruption section is the 
appropriate part of the policy and the holiday abandonment section isn't. But as I've said 
above, I think that Mr and Mrs Is claim is covered by the holiday abandonment section of the 
policy. That's because  their flight was cancelled because of the weather and they couldn't  
arrange alternative travel within 24 hours. So I think that Europ should  pay Mr and Mrs Is 
claim subject  to the remaining terms, conditions, excess and limits applying to the travel 
abandonment section of the policy. Europ should add simple interest to that settlement at a 
rate of 8% a year from the date Mr and Mrs I cancelled their trip to the date Europ  makes  
payment.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Europ Assistance S.A. to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Is travel insurance  claim for the abandonment  of their trip subject 
to the remaining terms, conditions, excess and limits applying to the travel  
abandonment section of the policy; and
Add simple interest to that settlement calculated at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
Mr and Mrs I cancelled their trip to the date Europ makes payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Europ considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs I how much its taken off. It should also give them  a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6893793