K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  wont refund disputed transactions  made  
from his debit card and online banking. He also complains about a cheque  that was 
deposited into his account.
Mr C has brought his complaint via a representative,  but for ease of reading Ill refer to all 
submissions as having come from Mr C himself.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. 
Mr C disputes several  transactions made  relating to an account he held with HSBC. These 
transactions are as follows:
20 debit card transactions amounting  to around  £16,000 (from 1 October to 
28 October 2018)
Three online payments amounting to around £19,000 (27 October 2018)
A £38,463.73 cheque deposited into Mr Cs account 
(24 October 2018)
Mr C has said the following about  the disputed transactions:
He didnt make the debit card transactions:
oHis card was in his possession when the transactions happened
oHe didnt keep  his PIN written down, as he had it memorised
oHSBC have not adequately investigated whether his cards  chip couldve 
been cloned
He didnt deposit the £38,463.73 cheque  into his account
He didnt make the online payments
He didnt access his online  banking facility in October 2018
He doesnt  have any of his details  written down, nor does he have them  stored 
electronically
He didnt compromise his security  details in any way
In September  2018, the house he was staying at was burgled.  Although  nothing  was 
taken apart from some money  that was in his wallet  Mr C suspects some of his 
identification documents couldve  been  copied
Mr C has also complained  about  the way one of HSBCs branch managers spoke to him in 
branch about  the disputed transactions. He has said the bank managers comments were 
inflammatory and misdirected.
HSBC investigated  and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. They said there was 
no evidence of fraudulent activity for broadly the following reasons:
Mr Cs debit card was in his possession when the disputed transactions were made
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Cs genuine debit card
Ref: DRN68676682The cards chip was read, and PIN used
There havent been any cases of a cards  chip being cloned
Two of the three online payments were made to a beneficiary with the same  name  as 
Mr C
A third party would not have benefited  from depositing a cheque into Mr Cs account
Mr C had accessed his online banking facility during the period of the disputed 
transactions, so he wouldve been  aware  of them
Unhappy with HSBCs decision, Mr C referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt uphold the complaint.  In summary, she felt unable  to conclude 
that the disputed transactions  had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded that Mr C 
likely authorised the transactions.  She also felt that the HSBC branch manager  had acted  
reasonably.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to consider  
his case. He maintained that he did not make the disputed transactions 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it, for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself.
Im satisfied from HSBCs  technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. And that the payments made through online banking  were 
correctly authenticated. But, the regulations  relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think about  whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the transactions  
being made.
Debit card transactions
I think it would be sensible if I first deal Mr Cs comment about HSBC not adequately 
investigating whether his debit cards chip was cloned. Mr C included  in his submissions a 
link to an internet blog which claims it is possible to clone a chip and pin card. Whilst I accept 
its commonly referred to as being relatively easy to produce a cloned card by copying 
information from the magnetic stripe on a card, producing  a copy of a chip is something that 
is far more difficult (if at all possible). This service hasnt seen a case  so far where the chip 
has been successfully  cloned and used  in the UK. Ive not seen any further  evidence  
(beyond Mr Cs suggestion) that this has happened  in this case. The evidence  in this case 
shows that the chip of Mr Cs card was read  and physical card presented against readers 
for contactless payments  for the disputed  debit card transactions. Taking all the 
circumstances of this complaint into consideration, on the balance  of probability, Im not 
satisfied that Mr Cs debit  card was cloned. 
Ref: DRN68676683Mr C has maintained that his debit  card was in his possession  when the disputed  
transactions from it were  made. So, Ive considered whether its possible that a third party  
took the debit  card and used it to make  the disputed transactions.
Having carefully considered this, I think its unlikely that a third party took the debit card 
without Mr Cs knowledge,  made several  transactions from 1 October  to 28 October 2018, 
and then returned the card to Mr C by 29 October  2018; when he first spoke to HSBC  about 
the disputed transactions.  I find it unlikely that Mr C wouldnt have realised that his debit 
card was missing during  this lengthy period.
To my mind,  it doesnt seem plausible that a third party   who effectively took the risk to 
steal Mr Cs debit card  would make several  transactions and then take a further risk by 
trying to return the card to Mr C. It seems more likely that such  a person would continue 
using the card until they no longer  could,  and then discard it.
So, as Im satisfied that Mr Cs debit card wasnt cloned; wasnt taken and used by another 
without his knowledge; to my mind, this only leaves one other possible explanation. That is, 
Mr C either  made or authorised another the make the disputed debit card transactions.
Im particularly persuaded by the two telephone  calls that took place on 27 October 2018 
between Mr C and HSBCs fraud  team. I appreciate that Mr C says it wasnt  him who spoke 
to HSBC during  these  calls and that he wasnt aware of them.  But I think  its more  likely than 
not that it was him.
Mr C called HSBC because of a text message he received from them informing him about 
unusual activity on his account. During  these calls, Mr C answered all security questions  
asked of him correctly,  first time.  HSBC  also called Mr C back on his mobile  phone  to 
complete security.  So, Im satisfied that the call handler was talking to Mr C. 
During the first call, Mr C confirmed that several  transactions on the day were known to him 
and genuine. Some of these transactions Mr C now disputes. However, when he was asked 
about these transactions, he answered:
Ive been trying to book  tickets and then sort of take out money as well.
Ive been doing it for a bit. Ive been  taking out some money [sic] give my mum and 
everybody,  they are all going on holiday.
So, for the reasons outlined above, and taking everything into consideration  I think  its 
more likely than not that Mr C authorised the disputed debit card transactions.
Online payments
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that Mr Cs online security details were  compromised 
in any way. He himself has said that he doesnt  write down his details or store them  
electronically. Moreover, Mr C has not suggested  that he provided his online security  details 
to a third party to make the disputed online payments.
I can see that two of the three disputed online payments  made on 27 October 2018 were to 
a beneficiary with the same name  as Mr C. This would suggest that Mr C held the 
beneficiary account. Indeed during one of his calls with HSBC  Mr C confirms  that the money 
sent from his HSBC account  was received in his account with another  bank. With this in 
Ref: DRN68676684mind, I think  its unlikely  that a fraudster  would have made payments to an account held by 
Mr C, as the fraudster would not have been  able to access the funds. It seems more likely  
that a fraudster would make  payments  to a third party account that they could then access to 
withdraw the funds.
The third online payment had the following reference: Dads  loan.  Looking  at Mr Cs 
statements, I can see that on 22 September 2018,  a payment of £8564.00 was made from 
Mr Cs account with the same reference.   This  suggests that Mr C has made this online 
payment before, as the same reference was used prior to the period of the disputed 
transactions.
So again,  on balance,  I think its more likely  than not that Mr C made  or the disputed  online 
payments. 
Cheque
Mr C has said he has no knowledge of the £38,463.73 cheque that was deposited into his 
account on 24 October 2018, which  cleared on 27 October 2018.  However, Im not 
persuaded by this.
During the second telephone call between Mr C and HSBCs fraud team  on 27 October 
2018, HSBC asked Mr C whether  he recognised  some credit that that was going into his 
account. Mr C responded by saying:
Yep, that is my business. Yeah,  that is my business, yep.
Im satisfied that the advisor was referring to the £38,463.73 cheque.   I say this because the 
proceeds of the cheque  were the only funds  that were credited to Mr Cs account  on 27 
October 2018.
I can see that before the cheque was deposited into Mr Cs account,  the balance  of the 
account was almost £500.00  overdrawn. I think this is further evidence of Mr Cs awareness 
of the cheque going into his account. Without  the credit from this cheque, there  would have 
been insufficient funds for the substantial  amounts  of online payments and card spending 
that followed. 
Lastly, I find it unlikely  that a third party would deposit a cheque into another  persons 
account without  having a way of withdrawing the proceeds of the cheque.
I dont think I need  to make a finding on whether or not Mr C deposited the cheque himself. 
And I appreciate it was deposited to a branch in a town Mr C says hes never been to. But I 
think the evidence  suggests Mr C was aware  it had been deposited to his account  on the 
basis of the transfers  and spending that followed, which I think most likely Mr C authorised. 
Online banking facility
Mr C has said he didnt login to his online  banking  facility  during the period of the disputed 
transactions in October 2018. However,  Im not satisfied that this is the case.  I say this 
because I can see from the evidence provided by HSBC,  that Mr Cs online banking facility  
was accessed  multiple  times in October  2018 from the same devices used prior to this date.   
So, I think its likely that this was done by Mr C. It follows then that if Mr C didnt make the 
disputed transactions   which I dont agree with  he wouldve seen them  when he accessed 
Ref: DRN68676685his online  banking facility,  and likely  wouldve contacted HSBC to dispute them.  However. 
this is something Mr C didnt do.
Customer service
Mr C is unhappy with how a member of staff spoke to him in branch in relation to this matter. 
As our investigator pointed out, with face to face interactions,  it is hard after the event to 
know with any certainty  what happened or exactly what was said.  
And I can understand how Mr C might  have felt uncomfortable with some of the questions  
being asked. But HSBC have to ask questions (some of which  might  feel quite personal) to 
enable them to investigate any disputed transactions. I think this is reasonable.
And having carefully thought about  this matter, Im not persuaded that there  was an intention  
to upset Mr C. And I dont feel there is enough  evidence for me to conclude that Mr C was 
treated unfairly  here. So, I dont think HSBC need to do more on this point. 
Taking all the above points  into consideration   I find, on balance, that Mr C authorised  the 
disputed transactions.  It follows  that HSBC is entitled to hold him liable for them. I dont think 
I need to make a finding as to whether or not Mr C was involved in the depositing of the 
fraudulent cheque into his account to fairly decide this complaint. I also think  it most  likely 
that the HSBC  branch manager acted reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr C had expressed a desire to submit medical evidence  for my consideration. He says this 
would have evidenced that he wouldnt have been in a mental  state to be able to authorise  
any of the disputed transactions or to travel to make them. To date this evidence hasnt been  
submitted, and Ive previously extended the deadline  for doing so. I also feel that irrespective 
of what any medical evidence might say, that the evidence is compelling that Mr C 
authorised the transactions he disputes.  So, Im not persuaded  that this evidence he has 
alluded to would change my mind  as to the outcome  of this decision. And in any case, Im 
satisfied Mr C had a fair opportunity to submit  this evidence, but didnt do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867668