K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt uphold his Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 claim in full.
background
In 2018 Mr O took a holiday  to a European city. He purchased a pass at a cost of £318.50 
which gave him entry  to a number of tourist sites and access  to various forms of transport. 
He discovered one of the sites, which I will call T, was closed  until after he was due to return 
home and so he was unable  to visit it. He also says that a boat trip was shared with other 
passengers when he had expected it to be private.
Mr O complained to the supplier of the pass and it offered him a refund of 20%.  He then 
asked Barclays to make a chargeback. It did so, but this was rejected by the merchant  and it 
then made  a second attempt. The retailer offered  a refund of £35.36 which  the bank 
accepted. Barclays  considered whether Mr O was entitled to claim under Section  75 and it 
offered him a goodwill  payment of £250.  It also said it hadnt  handled  his claim well and paid 
him two sums of £25 and £50 respectively.
Mr O sought £900  to cover what he said were  consequential losses to allow  him to return to 
the city to visit T. As he felt Barclays response  was inadequate he brought  his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld.
She explained that for a section 75 claim to be valid there must be a clear  link between just 3 
parties: the debtor, the creditor and the supplier  (d-c-s). If there are other parties  involved in 
the transaction, this can break  the link and mean S75 no longer  applies.
She said the business which supplied  the pass appeared  to be acting as broker  for a variety 
of services offered  by others in the city. Its terms and conditions state it does not provide 
any of the services, events or other activities itself, but offers these individually or as a 
package the actual service is provided  by a third party. She believed Mr O had a contract 
for the provision services with each attraction individually and not with the supplier. As such  
she doubted if Mr O had a valid claim.
In any event she didnt  think  she could suggest  the bank pay for him and his wife to return  to 
visit T. She said that he had his wife had made use of the tourist pass to allow  them entry  
into a variety of attractions and travel between them. This is what he had paid for and this is 
what he had received. She had seen nothing to show the pass  guaranteed availability of all 
the sites. In fact, the terms and conditions explain that attractions may not be available  and 
customers should check before travelling. She didnt think there  had been either a breach  of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
She also thought  that if Mr O had been  made aware  T being closed he may well still have  
bought the pass as it gave him access to a number of other attractions and use of transport. 
He had made use of the pass for five other  attractions  including  a couple of trips which 
suggested he had wanted it for a range of activities and not just the one that was closed. 
Mr O didnt agree and didnt believe the d-c-s link had been broken  as he considered the 
supplier was responsible  for the provision  of the services of access  to the various visitor 
attractions. It told him when the various sites were open and so it was responsible  for failing 
Ref: DRN64739152to let him know the key one was closed  when he was visiting  the city. He also believed that 
the cost of him returning was a consequential loss even though he hadnt  actually incurred  
any costs as yet. He said the tour of T wasnt available separately and that is why he had 
bought the passes. 
He also suggested  the bank should  also cover the cost of his calls.  The investigator asked 
for evidence  of these  costs, but Mr O hasnt provided them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cause of Mr Os complaint is that T wasnt open. It and not the pass company is 
responsible for it being closed and so him missing out. The d-c-s link is an important aspect  
of any Section 75 claim. In this case Mr O is the debtor, the bank is the creditor  and the 
supplier is T. The pass company acted  as broker in providing tickets  or access  to various  
sites and services and as it has pointed out in its terms and conditions the services are 
provided by the third parties. It merely provides the tickets and any failure to provide the 
service is down to the attraction. As such I dont consider Mr O has a valid claim under 
Section 75.
That said I note that the bank has made several payments to him and I dont propose to 
suggest that it seeks to reclaim those.
Even if his claim passed the d-c-s test then I dont believe I can ask the bank to pay for him 
to visit the city again. I can appreciate that Mr O and his wife were  disappointed at not being 
able to visit T. The pass company provides  details  of standard  opening times, but a link on 
its web site shows when  T is closed for renovations  etc. and Ts web site also gives  full 
details of the times when it is closed. Of course  these  are the current versions of the web 
sites, but I have no reason to doubt the ones available to Mr O were  significantly different. It 
was open to Mr O to have  checked before going  given he was keen to visit T.
I cannot see that there was either  breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the pass 
supplier. It said for a certain payment it would provide tickets to various  attractions and 
access to transport. This is what it provided  and it is what Mr O and his wife used. It didnt 
guarantee the various attractions would be open and it advised him to check the times of 
opening. Nor do I think the fact he and his wife had to share boat trip with serval large 
people is grounds  for me uphold his claim as Mr O has suggested.
Overall I can see no reason why this complaint  should be upheld. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 
8 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473915