K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains about the advice she was given by Mattocks & Co Limited (Mattocks) in
2007, before  it became an appointed representative with St James  Place,  to transfer her 
existing pension and investment ISA.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision which I issued on 
26 June 2018.  A copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this decision.
I said that only around 18 months had elapsed between recommendations to transfer the 
pension and the effect of the initial charges on the transfer and the regular premiums from 
2005 were unlikely to have  been fully negated. Therefore the reasons to transfer would have 
needed to be particularly compelling to counter  the likely extra charges of the SIPP  and 
effect of another initial charge.
Mattocks said the need to have a wrapper that could  accept Ms Gs commercial property as 
an investment was the most important reason to start a new plan. But the purchase  of the 
property hadnt  started  at that point, and only took place at a considerably  later date.  Based 
on the short time between the recommendations and the likely new charges  involved,  I 
believe it would have  been more appropriate  to wait until the property purchase had begun  
before advising  on a transfer.
Ms G asked that I reconsider the calculation of redress. She suggested the benchmark 
should be applied  beyond 2010 instead of applying interest which  may be taxable. She also 
said that the award for distress and inconvenience  should be higher.
So Ive reconsidered  the case in light of these responses.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
change my provisional conclusions and I confirm  them here.  I uphold  this complaint.
Ive noted all that has been  said by Mattocks but fundamentally the SIPP that was arranged 
couldnt facilitate  the property purchase Ms G desired. So I remain of the view that it would 
have been more appropriate  to wait until the property purchase had begun  before arranging 
the transfer and then arrange a SIPP which could facilitate the intended purchase.
I have noted Ms Gs comments on redress. But I think  it is fair to apply the benchmark to 
2010 as that is when  loss arising from this advice crystalizes. I appreciate that Ms G may be 
better off if the calculation  is extended but I must  determine what  is fair to both parties.
So far as distress and inconvenience is concerned, I do note Ms Gs comments but I think  
the award is fair in all the circumstances. I appreciate  the impact this issue  will have had on 
her pension planning but its also true that there  have been other issues  with her pension 
arrangements for which Mattocks is not responsible. Overall  Im not minded to change the 
award.  
Ref: DRN67406192my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Mattocks & Co Ltd. It must calculate and pay redress as set out 
in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67406193Copy of provisional  decision 
complaint
Ms G complains about the advice she was given  by Mattocks  & Co Limited (Mattocks) in 2007, prior 
to it becoming an appointed representative with St James  Place, to transfer her existing pension  and 
investment ISA.
background
In 2005 Mattocks  recommended that Ms G transfer  her ISA into a new plan and make an additional  
monthly contribution.  In the same year it recommended that she paid £1,000 per month and made 
occasional lump  sums payments into a personal pension  using funds  in line with her agreed medium / 
high attitude to risk.
In early 2007 Mattocks  recommended that Ms G transfer her pension to a new self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and continue to pay the regular contribution as before. The reasons to transfer were 
given as access  to a wider  range of funds and to benefit from lower charges. The funds were broadly 
of the same risk profile as previously and the adviser fees were 2% initially and 0.5% ongoing.
In 2016 Ms G complained  about  the advice shed been given to transfer to the SIPP and some  other 
matters that had occurred after Mattocks became an appointed representative.
Mattocks initially objected  to us considering the complaint as it said the complaint had been brought 
outside of the time limits allowed.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and said it could  be considered as Ms G wasnt 
reasonably aware she ought to have complained until she did complain in 2016. He went  on to 
recommend that the complaint be upheld because he said that the advice to transfer to the SIPP 
wasnt, in his opinion, suitable. He didnt think it was appropriate to transfer to a SIPP at that time 
because the potential purchase of Ms Gs business premises hadnt started.  He felt the transfer 
should have been considered when  the purchase was underway.
He also said that the transfer had taken place less than two years  after the first transfer and the effect  
of the initial charges  from the first transfer were probably yet to be fully realised.
He believed that Ms G had suffered unnecessary extra costs  and there was no evidence to show that 
an analysis or comparison of the various  costs had been carried out to demonstrate if the transfer was 
in Ms Gs best interest.
Mattocks disagreed and subsequently provided new information to show that the overall costs of the 
new SIPP were lower  than the previous plan and that Ms G would  have been in a better  financial 
position with her pension within three years of the transfer.
The adjudicator noted the information but said that it hadnt been provided to Ms G at the time of the 
transfer, and she couldnt  have been  aware  of whether the transfer was appropriate for her at that 
point. He wasnt  persuaded  to change his opinion.
Ref: DRN67406194my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I have come to broadly the same conclusions  as the 
adjudicator and for essentially the same reasons.
Like the adjudicator I think that the advice to transfer the ISA and personal  pension in 2005 was 
suitable, so Ive considered whether the advice  in 2007 was also suitable. I dont believe it was for the 
following reasons.
Mattocks said that the reason Ms G should transfer was to benefit from lower charges, wider fund 
choice and the opportunity to have an asset (Ms Gs business premises)  within a pension  wrapper.
I cant  see that Ms G was presented with any analysis of the charges of the two pensions at the time 
of the recommendation. I think she should have been given a comparison  of the initial costs and 
ongoing costs of the two plans as well as an idea of the compound effect of these charges  on the 
future growth of the plans. In addition, I note that only around 18 months had elapsed  between 
recommendations to transfer the pension  and I believe  the effect  of the initial charges on the transfer 
and the regular premiums from 2005, was unlikely  to have been fully negated. Therefore I think the 
reasons to transfer would have needed to be particularly  compelling to counter the likely extra 
charges of the SIPP and effect of another initial  charge.
Mattocks said the need to have a wrapper that could  accept Ms Gs commercial property as an 
investment was the most important reason  to start a new plan. But the purchase of the property hadnt 
started at that point, and only took place at a considerably later date. Based on the short  time 
between the recommendations  and the likely  new charges involved,  I believe  it would have been 
more appropriate to wait until the property purchase had begun before advising on a transfer.
In my view,  these reasons  show that the transfer wasnt in Ms Gs best interest at that time and I dont 
believe she was given sufficient information for her to be able to make an informed decision  about  
whether she should transfer.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Ms G as close 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable  advice.
I take the view that Ms G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what 
she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below  is fair and 
reasonable given Ms G's circumstances  and objectives when she invested. I dont agree that the 
loss should only be for the time until it became part of SJPs network. Thats  because once the 
transfer had taken  place it could not be undone without additional costs to Mrs G. I think its fair 
that the loss is calculated up to the date of the later transfer.
Ref: DRN67406195what should Mattocks  do?
To compensate Ms G fairly,  Mattocks must:
Compare the performance  of Ms G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Mattocks should also pay interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Mattocks  should pay such amount as may be required into Ms G's pension plan, 
allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase the pension plan value  by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Mattocks is unable to pay the total amount into Ms G's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Ms G's marginal rate of tax at retirement.
 
For example, if Ms G is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional  allowance would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount  equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms G 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
Pay to Ms G £300 for the disruption caused to her retirement  planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP  
Centre 
SIPPtransferredFTSE WMA 
Stock Market  
Income Total  
Return Indexdate of 
investmentDate of 
further  
transfer  in
20108% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  using 
the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value  calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Ref: DRN67406196Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation from that 
point on. If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept  
if Mattocks totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation  because:
Ms G wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
 The WMA index is made  up of diversified indices  representing different asset classes,  
mainly UK equities and government bonds.  It would be a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is 
close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Ms G's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Ms G has not yet used her pension  plan to purchase an annuity.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since 
the end date.
my provisional  decision
I intend to uphold  this complaint. This is my provisional decision  and Ill consider any 
responses before  making a final decision.
Ref: DRN6740619