K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Services Limited caused his radiator to leak,  damaging his 
property.
background
Mr M has a British  Gas HomeCare policy. In early  November 2018 British  Gas attended 
Mr Ms property  to fix his heating. Mr M says the British  Gas engineer caused one of his 
radiators to leak, damaging his property   so he complained to British Gas.
British Gas visited Mr Ms property on 20 November 2018 and said that damage to Mr Ms 
wall and carpet was caused  by pre-existing damp. So it did not uphold  Mr Ms complaint or 
propose to do anything further. Mr M remained unhappy  and referred his complaint  here.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr Ms disagreed  with the investigators  
complaint, so the matter has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  that there was a leak from the radiator when the 
British Gas engineer  attended to fix Mr Ms heating. The issue is around the damage and 
stress Mr M says this caused  for which hes requested compensation.
 
Im satisfied from the information  Ive seen that when  the leak sprung, the engineer  likely 
took expedient action to fix it. Ive also seen information that Mr Ms carpet and wall likely 
had existing issues before  the leak occurred. For example, British Gas has provided some 
evidence of slug trails on the carpet.  Photographs show there is also a reasonably  large 
patch of wall directly  above the skirting board and below Mr Ms window that appears sunken  
and damaged, which Ive seen no evidence  to suggest was caused by the leak.  And what  
Mr M has told us seems  to suggest this sunken  patch was already there  prior to the leak. 
 
In any event, I havent seen any persuasive  evidence of material damage caused to the 
carpet as a result of the leak.  Photographs show the carpet  slightly  lifted around the edges.  
But its not clear this was caused by the leak, as distinguished  from the general  age, wear-
and-tear and existing condition of the carpet  before the leak. Mr M has also said the leak 
caused a bad smell  but Ive not seen any evidence this persisted beyond the two days  hes 
said it took to dry the carpet, and I note that British Gas has said it found  the carpet to be dry 
when it visited on 20 November 2018,  which I cannot see Mr M has disputed.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about a patch of his wallpaper coming away  as a result  of 
the spray  from the leak. I can see from the photographs, though, that this patch is very close  
in proximity to the larger  patch (which Ive already  mentioned) that appears to have  already  
had substantial damage. Im not persuaded I can say its most likely that the leak caused  the 
wallpaper to come away, as distinguished from the existing state of the wall.
Ref: DRN60001632Ive thought about Mr Ms claim  for distress  and inconvenience. However, were all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings  with other people, 
businesses and organisations   but that doesnt  automatically mean  an award for distress 
and inconvenience  is warranted. And here it appears to me that the engineer fixed the leak 
expediently, and that British Gas followed Mr Ms subsequent complaint with a house 
inspection within a reasonable  timescale. 
 
Overall, the evidence doesnt convince me it would be fair to hold British Gas responsible  for 
the current condition  of the carpet or wall, or that compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience is warranted.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6000163