K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading  as 118118  Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.  He further complains that MCF failed to make  him aware that it 
intended to default his account when he faced problems making his repayments.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued earlier this 
month. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold  part of the complaint.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. MCF accepted my 
provisional decision. But it noted  that its records indicated that Mr A hadnt  yet repaid the 
loan. It asked that we check  that Mr A understood that removing the default would mean the 
loan, with its late repayments, would remain on his credit file for a longer period.
Mr A also accepted my provisional decision.  In response to what MCF  had said he provided  
us with an extract from his credit file showing the loan was settled in December 2020. And 
he told us he was aware of how his credit file would be impacted by the removal  of the 
default, but still wished to proceed in that way.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that both parties have  said 
they accept my provisional  decision I see no reason  to alter the conclusions  I reached there.
From the evidence Mr A has provided  I am satisfied that his account balance has been 
repaid although whether or not the loan is outstanding doesnt affect the redress I am 
proposing here. But MCF might want to liaise with the third-party debt collection company to 
update its records  to reflect the current status of the loan.
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think  MCF  was wrong  to give 
the original loan to Mr A. But I think that MCFs error  in the address it used to send the 
default notice  to Mr A means that it wasnt  successfully received. I think that had Mr A 
received the default notice hed have taken  steps  to bring his account up to date, and 
prevent the default being added. So I think the default has been added unfairly and should 
be removed from Mr As credit file. 
Ref: DRN62336852putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr A, MCF  should;
Remove the default from Mr As credit file. It is reasonable to show the loan as 
having an arrears  status until it was repaid,  but it should  not be shown as having  
entered default.
Pay the sum of £100 to Mr A in respect  of the trouble and upset he was caused by 
the communication failures during July 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint and direct  Madison CF UK Limited  
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62336853EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money  (MCF)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. He further complains that MCF failed to make him aware that it intended to 
default his account  when he faced problems  making his repayments.
background
Mr A was given a single loan by MCF. He borrowed  £1,000  in July 2017 and agreed to repay the loan 
in 24 monthly  instalments. Early the following year Mr A lost his job and faced  problems making  the 
agreed repayments. Although he did discuss his issues  on a number of occasions  with MCF, his 
account fell further into arrears and in June 2018 MCF told him that it intended  to default the account. 
That default was applied in July 2018. Mr As outstanding balance was later transferred to a third-
party debt recovery company, but Mr A tells us that it has now been fully repaid.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought  that the checks MCF 
had done before agreeing  the loan had been proportionate and didnt give the lender any cause for 
concern that Mr A wouldnt  be able to repay what hed borrowed in a sustainable  manner. So she 
didnt think MCF  had been wrong to lend to Mr A. She did however think  that MCFs communications 
with Mr A when he was facing problems  repaying  the loan could have been better. She asked MCF  to 
pay Mr A £100 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. But she didnt think  MCF had been unfair  
when it defaulted the loan.
MCF accepted our adjudicators assessment.  But Mr A didnt agree. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mr As complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave this loan to Mr A required  it to carry  out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could  afford  to repay  what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF  had to think about whether repaying  the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice this meant that 
MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr A undue  difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN62336854the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr A.
MCF gathered some information from Mr A before  it agreed the loan. It asked him for details of his 
income, and his normal expenditure.  And it checked his credit file to assess  how much he was 
repaying to other  creditors and how hed managed his credit accounts in the past.
The credit  check showed  that Mr A had experienced some  significant  problems repaying credit in the 
past. It showed a number  of accounts that had been  defaulted  around four years  before. But more 
recently Mr As credit  file showed little use of credit. And those accounts  that were open at the time 
were generally well managed. So I dont think the results of the credit  check should have caused 
significant additional concerns for the lender.
I think  that the checks MCF did before agreeing  the loan were proportionate. The amounts that Mr A 
needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given  these 
repayment amounts and what was apparent  about  Mr As circumstances at the time, I dont think it 
wouldve been  proportionate for MCF to ask him for the amount of information  that would be needed 
to show  the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  the loan. So I dont think  it was irresponsible 
for MCF to agree to give Mr A this loan. 
Early in 2018  Mr A told MCF that hed lost his job. And as a result he said that hed find it difficult  to 
make his repayments.  Ive listened to a number of calls between MCF and Mr A from the time,  and 
looked at the letters MCF  says that it sent to him.
At that time the regulator  would expect MCF to take steps to ensure that Mr A was treated fairly, with 
forbearance and with due consideration. It provided firms  with a number of examples of this sort of 
behaviour including the consideration of reducing or waiving future interest  charges, allowing  the 
payment of arrears to be deferred, or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
It is my understanding  that the regulators guidance isnt intended to leave debts  outstanding  for an 
indefinite period  of time. Instead the requirement for lenders to show forbearance  and due 
consideration to consumers who are facing financial difficulties  is to allow a reasonable  period of 
breathing space for consumers, facing an unexpected fall in their disposable income,  to review their 
options. Generally MCF  offered a number  of opportunities to Mr A to place his account  on hold for 
periods of 30 days. I think that was in line with the regulators guidance.
But, reaching  those agreements wasnt an easy process. Mr A found  himself  needing to repeat 
information about his circumstances on each occasion. It doesnt seem to me that MCF treated  him 
appropriately in terms of taking notes  of his situation for its advisors to refer to when Mr A called. The 
result of that was that Mr A spent far longer on the phone to MCF than he might have. So I agree  with 
our adjudicator that the way MCF dealt  with Mr A caused him some trouble and upset, and that it 
would be appropriate  to make a payment  to him in that respect. I think  the amount of £100 proposed 
by our adjudicator,  and agreed by MCF, is fair and reasonable.
I have looked at the communication  between MCF and Mr A just before the default  was applied to his 
account. The regulations require MCF  to provide  Mr A with notice  before a default is applied,  to allow 
him a period of time to bring his account up to date.  MCF  has provided  us with copies of the statutory 
notices that it issued to Mr A in that regard.
Ref: DRN62336855I have concerns about the address that MCF used when sending the letters to Mr A. On each of the 
calls that I listened to Mr A provided MCF  with his correct postal address as part of its identity checks. 
And the information MCF  has shown  us from its systems  also holds Mr As full postal address. But on 
the letters  it sent him about  his arrears, and notifying him that his account would be defaulted,  MCF 
included only part of the address. Whilst it is possible  the address MCF used might  have been 
sufficient for the letters to be successfully delivered, and MCF says it has no record of returned mail,  
Mr A says that the letters didnt arrive at his home.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr A says. And he had a number of phone calls with MCF in early 
July  a couple of weeks  after the default  was added  where he was trying to understand the current  
status of his loan. I think it is clear from those  phone calls that Mr A understood how serious  it would 
be for a default to be added to his account. So I think that adds weight  to a conclusion  that Mr A didnt 
receive the letters that MCF  sent. And I think the most likely reason for the letters  not arriving was the 
error MCF  made  in Mr As address.
But I also need to consider whether Mr A would  have  acted  any differently if he had received the 
letters. As I said earlier I have no doubts that Mr A was aware that a default would  reduce  his ability to 
get credit in the future. Mr A had suffered from defaults a number  of years before he took the loan 
with MCF  but he would have expected those  to drop off his credit file in the relatively near future. So 
I think  he would have taken  whatever steps he could to prevent  a new default being added.
In order  to prevent the default being added Mr A would  have needed  to make a payment of his 
arrears to MCF. That might have been difficult for him given his employment circumstances.  And 
I have to consider that after the default had been applied  it was some  time before  Mr A started  to 
again repay his borrowing. But I dont think that means Mr A wouldnt  have found a way to pay the 
arrears on his account. Once the default had been added, and MCF had confirmed that repaying the 
arrears wouldnt result in the removal of the default,  I think it would  have made sense for Mr A to 
apply any funds to ensure  other accounts didnt  default too. 
So on balance I think that MCFs error  in the address  it used to send  the default notice  to Mr A means 
that it wasnt successfully received. I think that had Mr A received  the default  notice  hed have taken  
steps to bring his account  up to date,  and prevent the default  being  added. So I currently think  the 
default has been added  unfairly  and should be removed  from Mr As credit file.
Ref: DRN6233685