K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Cash On Go Limited  trading as Peachy.co.uk was irresponsible  when it 
provided loans  to him in December 2018. Hes also unhappy at the way in which  it dealt with 
him when  he tried to withdraw from the loan and later, when it pursued him for the 
outstanding balance.
background
Mr A took two advances  from Peachy. It says that the second was a top-up to the first - 
though for reasons I explain below I think the two advances were in effect  two separate  
loans.
On 1 December  2018 Mr A took a loan of £100  from Peachy to be repaid over six months.  
On 9 December he took the second advance which meant that the capital he had now 
borrowed amounted  to £550.  This was also repayable over six months. On 22 December 
Mr A told Peachy he wanted to withdraw from the agreement made on 9 December and 
asked it confirm the sum which  he would have to repay to allow him to withdraw.   It said he 
was too late to withdraw.
Mr A complained to Peachy. It didnt  agree  it had done anything wrong and so he brought  his 
complaint to this Service. As well as the issues around irresponsible  lending and withdrawal 
from the loan Mr A also complained that Peachy was wrong  to take payments from his 
account. And he was unhappy that it continued to pursue him for the balance on the loan 
after it had told him it had been  placed  on hold whilst the complaint was being  dealt  with.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr As complaint and in summary he concluded  that 
Peachy hadnt  been irresponsible to provide the loans. But he did think that Mr A shouldve 
been allowed  to withdraw and that Peachys service after that  in pursuing  the debt as it did 
 was unfair. He proposed a way forward which Peachy accepted. Mr A agreed with some  of 
what the adjudicator  concluded but wasnt happy with how it was proposed that Peachy 
should put things right. As the matter  wasnt resolved informally,  it came to me for a 
decision.
A few weeks  ago, I issued  a provisional  decision in which  I explained why I was minded to 
conclude that whilst  Peachy hadnt  been irresponsible  when it provided the loans to Mr A, it 
had later treated  him unfairly. I also explained  how I thought things should  be put right. I 
invited the parties  to let me have anything else they wanted me to think about before I issued 
this final decision.
Mr A has said he accepts  my provisional  decision.  I havent heard anything back from 
Peachy. 
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the loans  were  they responsibly  lent?
Ref: DRN62696582This is what  I said in my provisional  decision as regards whether Peachy had been 
irresponsible when  it provided the credit  to Mr A:
Mr A accepts what our adjudicator  says about the first loan being responsibly lent but hes 
unhappy that Peachy provided  the top-up which  was for significantly more  money within 
9 days and without doing more checks. He says that if Peachy  had asked to see his bank 
statements it wouldve seen  he couldnt afford the top-up.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance  and good industry practice - on our website.
Peachy provided the loans in question  while it was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The Consumer Credit sourcebook  (CONC) set out the 
rules and guidance which  apply to credit providers  like Peachy when providing loans. CONC 
5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
These meant that Peachy  needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr A could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr As income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy  should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr A. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Mr A took only two advances from Peachy and they were within a very short  time  so at the 
point of the top-up  there wasnt really  any sort of history that might have led Peachy  to 
conclude that it needed to do more at that time.  I accept that it had declined  two loan 
applications from Mr A over a year before but I dont think those were something it needed  to 
consider, given the gap. And Mr A declared  a relatively high monthly  income of £2,581. 
Peachy asked Mr A about  his expenses and hed declared that his housing was zero because 
he lived with parents.  He said he paid £200 towards utilities, £180 towards  food, £100 
towards transport, £200 towards other and £600 towards credit. This meant that Mr A 
would've been left with a disposable income of around £1,300 per month. 
As a result  of the agreement made  on 9 December 2018 Mr A was due to make  six 
repayments. For ease of reference I've rounded  the figures. The first repayment  was to be 
due to be £87. After that they were going to be between £177 and £185 over the following five 
months. In other  words, on the basis of the information Mr A provided, the highest amount the 
was going to have to find out of his £1,300 disposable income in any one month was around 
£185. 
Ref: DRN62696583Peachy had to do proportionate checks: it didnt have to look at everything unless 
circumstances dictated  that it should do more. In this case I'm not persuaded  that Peachy 
acted irresponsibly when it provided  the top-up  to Mr A on 9 December  2018.  So, I'm not 
planning to uphold his complaint about irresponsible lending.  
As Ive said,  Mr A accepts  my provisional decision and hasnt added anything more  about 
Peachy providing  the loans to him. As such,  I see no reason to change my provisional 
conclusions. And I dont uphold Mr As complaint  that Peach was irresponsible when it 
provided the loans  to him.
did Peachy act fairly when it wouldnt allow Mr A to withdraw from the top-up agreement?
This is what  I said in my provisional  decision about Mr A trying to withdraw from the second 
agreement:
Firstly, I think  I need to clarify  what happened when Mr A applied for the top-up. By that 
point Loan 1 had been live for nine days. It had been for £100. When the top-up was agreed 
the credit agreement was for £550. Of this £100 effectively went towards  repaying  Loan 1 so 
only £450 was credited to Mr As bank  account.  I've seen  his bank statements  and on 10 
December 2018 a deposit  was received from Peachy of £450. On the following  day there was 
a payment to Peachy of £6.24.  This amount was the interest  payable on Loan 1 for the nine 
days it had been live. In other words, I'm satisfied  that Loan 1 was to all intents and purposes 
repaid at the point the top-up was agreed. £100 was deducted  from the top-up  to settle the 
capital amount of Loan 1 and Mr A paid £6.24 in interest.
So, it seems  to me that Mr A effectively had a new loan in the amount of £550 when he 
received this top-up. From hereon Im going to refer to this as Loan 2 as in practical  terms,  
Loan 1 was finished.
From the documents provided by Peachy I'm satisfied that on 9 December Mr A was provided 
with new terms and in those it explained his right to withdraw and that he had fourteen days  in 
which to do that. This is what it said:
You have  the right to withdraw  from this Agreement under s66A Consumer Credit Act 
1974 within 14 (fourteen) days, without penalty and without having to give any 
reason. Your  right to withdraw from this Agreement commences on the day after 
whichever is the later of (a) the date of the Agreement; and (b) the date You receive a 
notice from Us (that the agreement  has been  executed in identical terms to the copy 
already given  to You and that You have  the right to a copy of the executed agreement  
if You ask within 14 (fourteen) days to Your  email  address, and ends 14 (fourteen) 
days after that date. If You want  to withdraw, You must notify Us of Your  intention to 
do so, either  in writing or orally. To withdraw  in writing, You can either  write to Cash 
On Go Ltd, .; or email to ., or fax Your withdrawal notice ..  To 
withdraw orally,  You must telephone . and speak with a Customer Service 
Representative.
If You withdraw from this Agreement,  You must  repay any credit already provided  
under this Agreement as well as any interest accrued on the credit (calculated from 
the date the advance was provided  until the date it is repaid) without  delay and no 
later than 30 (thirty) calendar  days after giving  notice of withdrawal. The accrued 
interest will be £3.91 per day calculated at the contractual rate set out in Your  Loan 
Statement (Key Financial  Information) up to a maximum of 0.8% per day. The credit  
owed can be paid via bank transfer to Our account (the details of which can be 
obtained by emailing Customer Service Team on info@peachy.co.uk) but must  
include reference to Your Agreement number  (so We can identify the payment). 
Ref: DRN62696584[I have removed  the contact  details from these paragraphs]. 
In light of what was stated in the terms, I'm satisfied that Mr A he had until 23 December 2018 
to withdraw. If he opted to do so he had to contact Peachy in the ways outlined and to repay  
the capital amount  borrowed  together with accrued interest.  
Mr A emailed Peachy  on 22 December 2018 as follows:
Hi Peachy
I am writing to withdraw from my loan agreement.
It was taken on the 9th meaning it has been  exactly 13 days  since taking the loan 
when I write  this email.
Please confirm for me the amount that is required to pay,
Thanks [Mr A]
From what I can see Peachy  replied to Mr A the next day:
Dear [Mr A]
Thank you for contacting Peachy.
Please be advised that the credit agreement was signed  on 1/12/2018 when you took 
out the loan and you did top up the loan on 9/12/2018. Please note that from the 
01/12/2018, when you took out the loan. The 14 days time period has passed and we 
are unable  to cancel the credit agreement. From the period you took out the loan till 
today, daily interest has been added  to the loan as well. 
In this case you are welcome to make us an early full payment to clear  off the loan. 
Please note that as of today the amount payable  in full to pay off the loan would  be 
£604.67
 
It went on to explain how payment could  be made.
Mr A replied by quoting the withdrawal paragraph Ive outlined above. But Peachy still 
declined to give him a figure for withdrawal and settlement and somewhat  confusing wrote to 
him as follows:
Please be advised that Peachy Loans offers only one loan at a time.  Therefore, when 
the top up is issued as the payment schedule  is rearranged and top up credit is 
added to already outstanding credit on the account you are provided with a new 
Credit Agreement for the top up that was issued.
The Credit Agreement  that was signed on the 01/12/2018 for the initial  loan, 
therefore, the 14 days  cooling  off period has ended  on the 15/12/2018. Therefore, 
you are unable  to withdraw from the initial Credit Agreement for the loan that was 
issued on the 01/12/2018 in the amount of £100.00.
On the 9/12/2018 you have  topped  up your loan by £450.00 and were provided with 
the Credit Agreement  for the top up. So you had a 14 day cooling  off period to 
withdraw from the top up by repaying the issued top up with the daily interest.
As I've already  explained  Loan 1 had in effect been settled on 9 December. But I note that 
there is reference to there being a 14 day window in which to withdraw from the top-up with 
daily interest. 
Peachy has told us that In regards to the fact that [Mr A] was not able to cancel his top-up,  
we would like to take this time to explain that there seems  to have been a miscommunication 
Ref: DRN62696585as it seems that the customer  service agent who had replied to [Mr A] inquiry regarding the 
cancellation was under  the impression that [Mr A] wished  to withdraw from the loan in full. As 
more than 14 days of the initial agreement had passed,  then [Mr A] was advised that the loan 
agreement could not be cancelled, however, we offered an early repayment option.
I accept that Mr A had telephoned Peachy on 4 December  after he took Loan 1  to explain 
he wanted to withdraw from that. I've listened  to that call. During it Mr A had been told that he 
would need to repay  £102.34. But his card on record wasnt the one he wished to use so he 
was told he had to update his card details  on-line (for security reasons). Once that was done  
he should then call Peachy  again to authorise  the payment. It seems he didnt  ever do this. 
But I dont accept that the call on 4 December was sufficient to confuse the Peachy agent 
who responded to Mr As request about settling the top-up.  I think Mr A was clear  in his 
email of 22 December and I'm unclear why there should then have been any 
miscommunication.
A withdrawal  figure  was not provided  to Mr A for Loan 2.  I think it should  have been and that 
Peachy failed  to treat Mr A fairly  in December  2018. As a result I dont  think that Mr A should  
be required to repay any more than the amount of the capital advanced  to him (£550  in total) 
plus daily accrued interest to the point he said he wanted to settle  22 December. Ill explain 
further how I think things should be put right below.
In the absence of anything  further from the parties   again  I see no reason  to depart from 
my provisional decision. I remain satisfied  that Peachy treated Mr A unfairly when it didnt 
provide him with a withdrawal figure so he could withdraw from the agreement made on 
9 December.
going forward, did Peachy treat Mr A fairly  as regards repayment of the loan?
The third part of Mr As complaint is that Peachy treated him unfairly  when it took 
repayments for the loans. This is what  I said in my provisional decision:
As no agreement for withdrawal  was reached I understand why Peachy continued to treat the 
loan as though it hadnt been withdrawn.  And as such it took payments on the loan. From 
what I've seen it seems  Mr A accepted that payments had to be made.  This is because when  
a payment on 25 January  2019 failed he called Peachy  to make that payment of £181.26. 
Again I've listened to that call. He didnt mention to this agent that there was an on-going 
issue with withdrawal and given his willingness to make the monthly repayment  its unclear 
whether he still wanted to withdraw  or had the means to do so.
So, on the one hand I think  that Peachy  failed to act fairly  in December  but I'm not persuaded  
that it was wholly wrong to continue  to try to take repayments on the loan afterwards:  after all 
it was still outstanding. I dont agree with Mr A that Peachy stole  money  from his account 
and as I've explained he seemed to accept that it was within its rights to seek some 
repayments. 
Mr A made three repayments of £105.85, £181.26 and £185.80: a total of £472.91. This 
means that he has almost repaid all the capital  amount he borrowed in the first place. Again, 
Ill refer to this in the section below headed  putting things right
As Mr A accepts  my provisional decision,  Im not changing my mind on this part of his 
complaint. In other words, I'm not persuaded Peachy acted unfairly when it began to take 
repayments from his account.
did Peachy treat Mr A fairly when it pursued him for the outstanding  balance  after he brought  
his complaint to this Service?
Ref: DRN62696586The final part of Mr As complaint is that Peachy acted  unfairly  when it tried to enforce the 
terms of the second  loan agreement even though it told him it would put his account on hold 
whilst he was pursuing his complaint. This is what I said in my provisional decision:
I've seen  some email  correspondence between  Mr A and Peachy about the account  going on 
hold. He understood that interest  had been frozen but Peachy explained  that the account 
would be put on hold pending an outcome in his complaint. But despite these reassurances 
Peachy continued to contact him and warn him of the consequences  of non-payment.
For example on 23 July 2019 Peachy wrote to Mr A saying his account  was seriously 
overdue with a balance of £620.85. He emailed  back a few minutes  later saying that the 
complaint was with this Service and suggested they freeze his account  pending the outcome. 
A few hours later Peachy responded saying that his account had been placed on hold for the 
duration of the investigation and as soon  as there was an outcome  it would make the required 
changes. It added that it would cease recovery activity for 60 days  whilst his complaint was 
investigated. Two days later it sent Mr A another  demand  telling  him again  his account  was 
overdue. 
A week after that (on 1 August 2019) Peachy sent Mr A another email along  the same lines to 
which he replied to the effect that this Service was looking into his complaint and that Peachy 
should stop contacting him. 
On 2 August Peachy again emailed Mr A telling him he was severely overdue. But this time it 
said that it was willing to accept £496.68 in settlement. Later  in the day it emailed Mr A 
apologising for the inconvenience and that that this Service had been in touch  and the 
account placed on hold.  It told Mr A to kindly  disregard  any overdue reminders  he may have  
received.
On 3 September 2019 Peachy emailed Mr A to say that his loan was about  to be handed over 
to a debt collection agency. Two days after that it again reminded  him his account  was 
severely overdue. Mr A responded  the effect  that this was harassment. He also suggested 
that his message be passed  to someone senior.
Ive outlined the correspondence in some detail. This is because I want to make clear how 
often Peachy contacted Mr A about his arrears  - and in what terms - despite having  agreed to 
put collection on hold pending the outcome  of his complaint. I find some of the 
correspondence to be quite threatening - especially in the context of what  I've outlined above. 
Mr A says that hes felt threatened and harassed and I dont find this surprising. But I'm not 
persuaded that an award of £500 (the sum he says he wants) for his trouble  and upset  is 
warranted here for the reasons Ill explain below.
In the circumstances I remain of the view that Peachy acted  unfairly in the way it continued  
to correspond with Mr A after it had told him that his account was being put on hold. 
putting things right
I'm satisfied that Peachy  failed to treat Mr A fairly when it didnt give him a withdrawal figure 
in December 2018. Had it done  so I think he wouldve repaid the capital  and a small amount 
of daily interest. The payments  hes already  made towards that balance amount to around 
£472. 
Ref: DRN62696587I think Mr A was caused trouble and upset when  Peachy failed to give him a withdrawal 
figure: it seems to me that everything  that followed,  flowed from Peachys failings in 
December 2018.  Not only was Mr A unable to settle  the loan, he was pursued regularly and 
to some degree aggressively for sums much higher than he wouldve repaid had Peachy  
done things correctly. And this was despite him having raised  his complaint with this Service  
and Peachy having assured him that collections  had been put on hold. 
I've thought very carefully about  what would be a fair and reasonable outcome in this case  
and so this is how I require Peachy to put things right. It should:
a)assess what the correct withdrawal figure shouldve been on 22 December 2018  for 
Loan 2. To be clear  there  was no outstanding  balance on Loan  1 for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision.  This figure  should take account  of a total capital 
advance of £550 plus daily accrued interest between 9 and 22 December.
b)apply the payments  already made by Mr A (£472.91) towards the balance calculated 
at a) 
c)write-off the remaining  balance. Some of this will be made up of a small amount of 
capital and some will be the daily accrued  interest  but overall I think that this sum, 
together with the amount  I refer to in d) below is a fair amount to reflect  the impact 
Peachys failings had on Mr A 
d)pay Mr A an additional  £200 for his trouble and upset 
e)remove all adverse  information in Mr As credit file which  relates to the second  
advance made on 9 December 2018
In effect this means that Mr As debt to Peachy is cleared, that he receives an additional  
£200 and that his credit file is amended.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr As complaint in 
part, and I require Cash on Go Limited  to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6269658