K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains about Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) over its handling of a
payment protection insurance refund. Capital  One paid Mrs F her PPI compensation twice  in 
error and when the error was corrected  this left Mrs F in significant debt. She wants  this debt 
to be reduced or written off.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision, issued in April 2019.  
A copy of that provisional decision is attached. 
In that provisional  decision, I explained  why I thought  that Capital One had made  mistakes  in 
its handling of a PPI refund, and subsequently in its handling of a late payment marker  which  
had been added to Mrs Fs account  as a result  of the first issue.  
I explained that due to the first issue, Mrs Fs account  had been  wrongly  credited by around 
£2500, which temporarily resulted in a credit balance of £837. This was then transferred to 
Mrs F and she spent  it, believing it to be rightly hers. 
Capital One then identified the error  and re-debited  Mrs Fs account, leaving her around 
£2500 in debt,  when she had previously been reducing her credit card debt. 
Following this, Capital  One reported a late payment against Mrs Fs credit file. 
It subsequently noticed and agreed  to remove this, but did not do so until earlier this year. 
In my provisional decision I set out that in order to put Mrs F back in the position  that she 
had been in before Capital Ones errors I thought  that Capital  One should effectively write 
off the credit  balance  payment it had wrongly  made to Mrs F( of £837). This would require 
Capital One to reduce the debt Mrs F has outstanding by £837. 
I also thought  that Capital  One should pay to Mrs F £300 compensation for the confusing  
information it has provided to her throughout, and for its wrong  reporting  of a late payment, 
which it then failed  to correct for more than 18 months. 
My provisional decision was shared with the parties  and their comments invited. 
Mrs F has indicated that she accepts my decision.  
Capital One has not accepted my decision and has made  submissions arguing  against the 
provisional award. 
These are broadly:
1.That Mrs F knew  what the value of her PPI refund was  in September  2017  and so 
should have known that it was not sufficient to clear her debt and leave  a balance of 
more than £800;
2.That Mrs F should  have known that the PPI refund was to be sent to her claims 
management company,  and that it was an error for the credit  balance to be sent to her; 
3.That if Capital One writes off the £837 that was wrongly transferred to Mrs F this 
means that she will have received it 3 times;  and 
4.Overall, that the award is disproportionate, as Mrs F received the benefit of the money.
Ref: DRN69946132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that, looking at the matter  in hindsight, Capital One believes that Mrs F should 
have been aware  of what PPI refund was coming  to her, how much she would  receive after 
her claims management company had made  any deductions. I also understand that Capital 
One continues  this logic to think that Mrs F should  have known that her PPI refund would not 
have been sufficient to leave her in a credit  balance. Capital One therefore does not think  it 
credible that Mrs F believed that the credit  balance was rightly hers. 
I do not agree that this was obvious, and the statements and explanations that I have seen 
from Capital to Mrs F did not help to clarify  what had happened. The statements discuss 
payments and cancellations, moving  her balance  from a negative balance to a credit balance  
across more than one statement. I think it reasonable, in the circumstances, that Mrs F 
accepted the information,  and confirmation that was given to her by Capital One.  
That explanation was that she was in credit, and Capital One then agreed to pay it to her. 
I have previously indicated that I accept that Mrs F acted in good faith when receiving and 
spending the funds, and that given that she had spent a long time reducing  her debt I do not 
think it likely  that she would have  spent money  which she thought was in her account due to 
an error. 
In respect of whether Mrs F should have known that any PPI refund should have been sent 
to the claims management company rather than directly to her, I do not think that this would 
have been obvious either. Bearing  in mind  that the PPI claim would have taken place  over 
an extended period, I think it likely that most  people would forget the terms that they had 
signed up to at the beginning of the relationship with a claims management  company and, 
unless they used such companies  regularly,  would often rely on the financial business  to 
know how the process usually worked. 
Capital One has stated that they think that my provisional decision would mean  that Mrs F 
has received the £837 credit three times.  That is not the case. 
Mrs F received her PPI refund, via the claims company,  quite properly. Mrs F then received  
the £837 credit again when she was wrongly put into a credit balance and it was transferred 
to her. This was then effectively cancelled out by Capital One reversing the duplicate refund  
and putting Mrs F back into debt. 
Finally, Capital One thinks that the total award  is disproportionate. I understand that view,  
given that Mrs F received  £837 more than she should have done,  but as I have concluded  
that she received  and spent it in good  faith,  I do not think it is fair or reasonable for Mrs F to 
carry that additional debt, when it was not due to her fault. 
I therefore think that the best way to put Mrs F into the position she would have been in, but 
for the errors, is for Capital One to write  off the equivalent amount (£837) of Mrs Fs debt as 
it wrongly released to her and encouraged her to think was hers to spend. 
When applying this total reduction, Capital One can take into account any credits which have  
already been applied  to Mrs Fs account in relation  to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN69946133I also provisionally decided that Capital One should pay to Mrs F £300 compensation to 
reflect her distress and inconvenience  at the confusing information, and the impact upon her 
credit record  from Capital  Ones  wrong reporting of a late payment,  and then Capital Ones  
failure to correct that reporting. 
The award of compensation for distress  and inconvenience is in line with other  awards we 
would make in similar  circumstances and I do not think that overall  the award is 
disproportionate.  
my final decision
As a result, whilst I acknowledge and understand Capital Ones  arguments,  I adopt my 
provisional decision and reasons, along  with the reasons above, as my final decision. 
I therefore uphold  Mrs Fs complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) Plc to:
Write off a total of £837 of Mrs Fs outstanding debt (the total to be deducted can include 
any credits already made to Mrs Fs account) and 
Pay to Mrs F £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6994613