K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 1999. Mr M says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr M that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he had to 
agree to take it. Barclays no longer  has any of the paperwork  from the sale so I dont have 
any notes to show what discussions may have taken place or any copies of paperwork that 
Mr M may have seen or signed. This isnt surprising considering how long ago this sale took 
place. In situations such as this I need to consider what I think  is more  likely to have 
happened.
Barclays has been able to provide me with sample copies of the loan application that it says 
was in use at the time, along with an example  of the credit agreement. I think  its likely  these 
documents are the same or very similar to what Mr M would have seen at the time of making  
his application  for the loan. On the loan application there  is a section about PPI and I can 
see that it includes options to accept or decline to take out the cover.  I think  its likely that 
Mr M ticked to say he wanted the policy and so it was added  to his account.
The sample documents Ive seen show that there  was an option to decline the cover  - I 
wouldnt expect to see this if the policy was compulsory. So I think  its more likely Barclays 
made it clear  the PPI was optional, and that Mr M chose to take it. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr M has told us he would receive some sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work. 
He also says he had some savings. He also says he wouldve had death in service  pay, as 
well as life cover and critical illness cover
But this policy would  have  paid out for the remaining loan term if he had been unable  to work 
due to accident or sickness  which would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, 
any sick pay he may have received. And the policy would  also have paid out for up to 12 
months if he was to lose his job. Having the policy wouldve allowed him to use his other 
savings to cover other necessary expenses at what couldve been a difficult time if he found 
himself out of work.  And I also note the PPI wouldve provided different cover to that of Mr 
Ms life or critical  illness  policy. So I still think this policy  would have provided a useful benefit 
for him if he was to find himself unable to work.
Ref: DRN62428582Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
If Mr M had repaid his loan early, he wouldnt have received a proportionate refund of the 
premium. I dont know what was said to Mr M about early  repayment when he took the policy  
but from looking at everything on file I havent  seen anything to suggest that he needed  this 
kind of flexibility when  he took the loan or that he told Barclays  he may repay the loan early. 
So I dont  think this makes a difference.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mr M has lost out as a 
result of anything which  Barclays may have  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6242858