K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy and a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  The TMPP included 
PPI and life and critical illness cover.
background
Mr F took out a monthly premium PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. Halifaxs  records  show 
that the policy was cancelled  after a couple of months. In 2002  Mr F switched his mortgage  
from interest-only to repayment. At that point,  he took out a TMPP, which included life and 
critical illness cover (CIC). The cover was set up on a level term basis. It would have paid 
out a lump sum if Mr F had died, or if hed been diagnosed with one of a number of specified 
illnesses. In 2007, around five years after Mr F took out the TMPP, he added  PPI to the plan. 
Mr F has complained about all parts of the TMPP.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  he 
didnt think the PPI had been  mis-sold.  But he didnt think the type of life cover  and CIC 
included in the TMPP had been  the most appropriate for Mr F. He thought the life cover and 
CIC should have  been on a decreasing term basis, rather than level term. So he said that 
Halifax should pay Mr F the difference between the premiums he paid for the level term 
assurance, and those  hed have paid if the life cover and CIC had been set up on a 
decreasing term basis  instead.  And he said Halifax should pay interest on the refund.
After the adjudicator sent out his view, Halifax explained that decreasing term life and CIC 
would actually have  cost Mr F more than the level term cover included  in the TMPP. So our 
adjudicator explained to Mr F that he hadnt  lost out financially as a result of taking the level 
term cover. And he didnt  recommend  that Halifax take any further action.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
The 1998  PPI policy
Ive seen Mr Fs application form for the mortgage in 1998. It includes a section headed  
Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance. It says that Halifax recommends that 
the applicant consider PPI, and sets out brief details of the cover.  There  are equally 
prominent options to accept or decline the PPI. Theres a tick in the box to say Mr F 
wished to take the PPI. And hes signed  specifically  to confirm this. I think Halifax  made  
Mr F aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Ref: DRN66699812Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr F. This means it had a responsibility  to check that 
the cover was right for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances  at the time.  I acknowledge that Mr Fs told us hed have been 
entitled to some  pay from his employer  if hed been off sick or if hed lost his job. But if 
hed made a successful claim on the PPI, it would  have  paid his monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months.  Thats significantly longer than Mr Fs told us hed have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more,  it would  have  paid out in addition  to any 
payments Mr F received  from his employer. And he wouldnt have had to use his savings 
to make  his mortgage payments. 
Mr Fs mentioned that his parents would have covered his mortgage  payments if 
necessary. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that his parents would 
have been in a position to help if the need  had arisen. Taking everything into account,  
I think the PPI could have been  useful for Mr F.
Mr F was eligible  for the PPI. The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the separate  
application form which Mr F completed for the PPI. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that hed have found it unaffordable.  Its possible  Halifax didnt point out the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   for example provisions about unusual  employment 
situations or existing  medical conditions. But based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr F would have  been  affected by any of these.
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments, including what hes said about having  been 
pushed into taking the PPI by a forceful  sales person. He says there  was no mention that the 
policy was optional and that it was implied that he wouldnt  get the mortgage if he didnt  take 
the PPI. But Ive explained that I think that it was clear from the application form that the 
policy was optional. I accept that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr F. But pressure is a 
different matter, and I cant fairly conclude that Halifax  put unfair pressure on him to take out 
the PPI, based  purely on his recollection of a conversation that took place 20 years  ago. So 
this doesnt change my conclusion  that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold to Mr F.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN66699813The TMPP policy
The TMPP initially only included life cover  and CIC. So Ill deal with those elements of the 
plan first. 
Mr F says he wasnt aware hed been  sold the TMPP. I havent been provided  with a copy of 
Mr Fs application  form for the plan. Where the evidence  is incomplete or inconclusive  I need  
to decide what  I thinks most likely to have  happened,  based on the information  I have.  
Halifaxs records show that Mr F applied for the TMPP at a branch of the bank in 2002, and 
that he was asked various questions regarding his circumstances  before the cover was set 
up. This was around the time that he switched his mortgage from interest only to repayment. 
Up to that point,  Mr Fs mortgage had been supported by a Halifax  Home Plan, which 
provided life and CIC. The TMPP provided  life and CIC going forward.  And I think it unlikely, 
on balance, that it would  have been  set up on Mr Fs account without his consent.
I dont think life cover and CIC was unsuitable for Mr F, given that he was making an 
important and long-term financial commitment. Ive borne in mind that hes told us hed have 
been entitled to death in service benefit from his employer at the time,  which  would have 
paid out two-and-a-half  times his income.  But there  was no guarantee that hed stay in a job 
that provided that type of cover for the whole of the mortgage term. So I dont think  Mr Fs 
existing cover made the policy  unsuitable for him. 
But the cover was set up on a level term basis  with the sum assured  remaining constant 
throughout the term. That might have been  preferable for Mr F if hed still been paying his 
mortgage on an interest-only basis where the mortgage amount stayed the same, as hed 
been doing until 2002. But in 2002  Mr F changed  his mortgage to a repayment mortgage.  So 
from then on, the mortgage amount decreased  over time.
A better option  for Mr F might have been for his life and CIC benefit to reduce over time, in 
line with his decreasing mortgage. And Id normally  consider that a fair way of calculating 
compensation would be to compare  the cost of the life cover  and CIC that Mr F took out with 
a similar  policy taken out on a decreasing  term basis, and require Halifax  to refund any 
difference in the premiums. 
But in this case Halifax has explained,  and I accept, that the cost of a decreasing term policy  
at the time would actually have been higher  than the level term insurance  that Mr F was 
sold. This can sometimes happen, because the policies  are set to run over many  years,  are 
constructed differently and depend on the consumers circumstances. So I dont think  that 
Mr Fs lost out financially as a result  of level term assurance being included in the TMPP. 
And I dont  require Halifax to make  any refund  to him in respect of the life cover  and CIC.
The 2007  PPI sale
In 2007 PPI was added to Mr Fs TMPP. Again, I havent seen an application form for the 
PPI cover.  But Halifaxs records show that Mr F took the cover out in a branch  of the bank, 
and that he was, again, taken through a series of questions  about his circumstances before 
the cover  was set up. So Im satisfied, on balance,  that he realised at the time that he was 
applying for the cover.  And I think its unlikely that it would  have been set up without his 
consent.
Ref: DRN66699814Bearing in mind that hed already had the repayment  mortgage without PPI for a few years, 
I dont think that Mr F would have thought the PPI was compulsory. As was the case  when 
he took out the original PPI policy in 1998, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him. It 
would have covered his monthly mortgage payments for significantly  longer than Mr Fs told 
us hed have been entitled  to sick pay from his employer for. And he wouldnt have had to 
use his savings to make his mortgage repayments.  
As in the case of the 1998 sale, I accept that its possible that the information that Halifax  
gave Mr F about the PPI cover which he took out in 2007 wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Im satisfied that he chose to take out the PPI, so he appears  to have wanted this 
type of cover. It doesnt  look as if he was affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. And it appears to have been affordable to Mr F. So taking everything into account, Im 
not convinced  hed have made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance, I think hed still have taken out the PPI, and I dont find that it was mis-sold.
Ive considered whether the commission Mr F paid for PPI cover  that he took out in 2007 
was too high. Halifax doesnt think it did anything  wrong in relation to the commission  on the 
PPI. But its paid the same amount to Mr F as it would have done if it had thought that the 
commission was too high, and that Mr F had been  treated unfairly as a result. 
Even if Id decided that Mr F had paid too much commission on his PPI premiums,  I wouldnt 
have asked Halifax to pay Mr F more than its already paid him. So I think that they payment 
its already made is a fair way to resolve Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  doesnt have to pay 
back the whole of what Mr F paid for the cover.
But it does  have to pay back  to Mr F any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium for the policy which Mr F took out in 1998. I understand its 
already done this. And its made the same  payment  to Mr F as it would have done if the 
commission on PPI he took out in 2007 had been too high. So I dont award any further 
compensation.
As far as the life cover  and CIC are concerned, although Mr F should have been  sold 
decreasing term cover,  I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) to refund him 
any money because  of this, for the reasons Ive set out.
I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) to take any further action to put 
things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6669981