K820x#14complaint
L has complained about an interest rate hedging  product  sold to it by National Westminster 
Bank Plc in 2005. It has also complained about  a second interest rate hedging product sold 
to it in 2007, which Im considering under a separate case reference-17513497.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings are in my provisional  decision 
issued on 25 January 2018,  which Ive attached.  So I will not repeat them  here.
The bank replied  and said it did not want to comment further on my provisional  decision. But 
it pointed out that it considered the sale of the 2005 swap  hadnt met the standards  agreed 
with the regulator for the review, rather than that it had not met the regulatory  standards  in 
place at the time of sale. 
L didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said:
It does not follow  logic that L would  have incurred a premium of around £5,800  for a 
vanilla collar if it had been aware of the potential for substantial break costs, when a 
cap would have  been available for the slightly higher cost of £9,294. It has been  
determined that the bank did not properly explain the risks, features and 
disadvantages of the swap;
If L had been informed there was a possibility of a break cost of even £100,000 then 
it would  have been an obvious choice  for L to have paid £3,494 extra for a cap. The 
replacement product proposed would still have resulted in substantial  break  costs  if L 
wanted to terminate it;
It has already made substantial representations, in significant detail. Despite this, 
unless I am willing to reconsider my decision, it is willing to accept my decision.  
The complaint has been passed  back to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L and its representatives say it does not follow logic that L would have paid around £5,800 
for a vanilla collar  if it had been aware  of the potential for substantial  break  costs,  when a 
cap would  have been available for £9,294.  L feels it is not in dispute that the bank  did not 
properly explain the risks, features and disadvantages of the swap. Given  the potential scale  
of the break costs,  it says it would have been  an obvious choice for it to have paid £3,494  
extra for a cap. 
I do not think it is illogical to suggest L might have opted to pay £5,800  for a vanilla collar, if it 
had been aware  of the potential scale of the break costs, instead of £9,294  for a cap. While 
there were greater risks with a vanilla collar,  it was obviously a few thousand pounds 
cheaper. So I have considered whether, if L had known about the potential scale  of the 
break costs,  the lower  cost would have likely outweighed the additional risks. I also need  to 
bear in mind  that hedging was a condition of the loan being granted, so L had to have some 
form of interest rate hedging  product. 
Ref: DRN61804422I know, from telephone  call recordings from the sale of another  hedging product to L in 2007, 
that its owner was very keen to get value for money. He does not appear to have wanted to 
pay a substantial premium for a hedging product in 2007. While the sale in question  took 
place around two years earlier,  I think it is reasonable to believe his view is unlikely to have 
changed much during  that relatively  short time.  It is also clear from the telephone 
conversations between Ls owner and the bank, in 2007, that his view on interest rates  was 
important. In 2007, he said he was comfortable  with the rates  he had entered  into in 2005 
and did not think  it likely  interest rates would go below 4.25%. The two sales were not that 
far apart in time and there is little to lead me to believe his view was much different  in 2007 
than it would have  been in 2005.  So I think in 2005  he was likely to have wanted to pay as 
little as possible for his interest rate hedging  and would not have thought  interest rates were 
likely to fall below 4.25%.
It is possible that knowledge of the potential scale of the break  costs  would have led him to 
pay the extra for a cap. A cap would  have given him the security  of knowing he would not 
have to pay more  than a fixed amount if rates rose, but he would be free to benefit from any 
fall in interest rates. But I have to weigh  that against  what I think his view of interest  rates is 
likely to have been in 2005  - that it was unlikely rates would fall as low as 4.25% - as well as 
his desire not to pay high premiums for his hedging  arrangements. 
I have also considered whether it was likely L would need to break  the arrangement and 
possibly incur break costs. 
The evidence from 2005, mentioned in my provisional decision,  suggests L did not require 
flexibility. For example, the financial report drafted by the bank dated 25 January 2005 
records [L] takes the view that total debt of [L] is unlikely to fall below £1 million  over the 
next 15 years. It also seems that any discussions about selling properties, which might have 
enabled L to repay some or all of the loan, were  on hold in 2005.
L was hedging for a relatively short period of time  five years.  The evidence suggests  L was 
unlikely to repay the associated loan and try to exit the arrangements during those five 
years. So in 2005, I think L would have thought break costs were unlikely to be incurred. L 
was also keen not to pay high premiums  and L had to take some form of hedging  product, as 
it was a condition  of the loan. 
All in all, given  that L had to take out some sort of interest rate hedging product; L would 
have thought it unlikely it would need  to break the arrangements in the next five years; L did 
not want to pay high premiums for its interest rate hedging and it appears  to have been 
comfortable with the rate protection offered by the vanilla collar,  I think  it is more  likely it 
would have opted for the cheaper, vanilla collar  rather than the more expensive  cap.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I do not uphold Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Greg Barham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN61804423copy of provisional decision
complaint
L has complained about  an interest  rate hedging  product sold to it by National Westminster Bank Plc 
in 2005. It has also complained about a second interest rate hedging product sold to it in 2007, which 
I am considering under  a separate case reference  17513497.
background
My understanding is that in December  2004  L agreed to refinance  part of its existing debt with the 
bank. It arranged  a loan of £1,050,000 over 15 years. It was a condition of the loan that L hedge  a 
minimum of 50% of its debt,  for a minimum  of five years. There has been some discussion about  
whether L needed to hedge 50% of the initial  loan or 50% of the overall amount  it (and possibly 
another company  owned by Ls owner) was expected to borrow from the bank, which was anticipated  
to be around  £1,700,000 - £1,750,000 by early 2005.
Ref: DRN61804424In March 2005  L bought a five-year  structured collar. This was for a notional sum of £900,000  with a 
cap of 6.35%, a floor of 4.25% and an additional floor of 3.25%. If the base rate averaged below 
3.25% for a quarter  year then interest at a rate of 6.35% would be payable for that quarter. L paid a 
premium of £1,600 for the structured collar.
The sale was considered by the bank under the review agreed with the regulator, the FCA.  The bank 
concluded the structured collar should not have been sold to L because  it was complex and the 
explanations about features,  risks benefits  and break costs  did not or may not have  met regulatory  
standards. The bank offered  redress  based on a replacement product,  a five year vanilla  base rate 
collar maturing on 8 March 2010, for a notional  sum of £900,000  with a cap of 6.35%  and a floor of 
4.25%. In addition the bank concluded certain charges and fees would  not have been paid. 
L did not accept  this offer. It thought the hedging  payments should be refunded  in full. It also thought  
the bank should make good  its consequential  losses, although  these losses have not been quantified. 
L considers any claim for these losses cannot be fully quantified without a final decision or agreement 
in respect of the basic loss. Therefore it considers a claim  for this should  be made and considered 
separately once I have  made a final decision on basic redress.
As it remained unhappy with the review outcome, L brought  a complaint to this service. An adjudicator  
investigated the complaint  and thought it should be upheld in part. This was based on his view that L 
would have opted for a five year vanilla collar  with a cap of 6.35% and a floor of 4.25%  for a notional 
amount of £525,000. He felt L only needed to hedge 50% of the loan it took out at the start of 2005 
i.e. 50% of £1,050,000. He considered a vanilla  collar was an appropriate alternative, given he took 
the view L knew,  in broad terms, how a collar  was supposed to work and appeared to have been 
prepared to take out such a product. He didnt  think there was any evidence to show L needed 
flexibility to enable it to potentially exit the hedging arrangement early. He thought  a cap would have 
been unattractive because the premium would have been higher and there was evidence  to suggest L 
wanted to keep  the premium  cost low.
The adjudicator pointed out that L had not made a quantified consequential  loss claim. He explained 
that we do not consider consequential loss claims  separately and invited L to make representations 
about its consequential  losses  and provide  evidence to support them.
The bank disagreed  with part of the adjudicators conclusions. It said Ls overall debt was expected to 
rise to approximately £1,700,000 - £1,750,000 therefore the amount hedged  was in line with its 
lending conditions i.e. a minimum of 50% of £1,700,000.
L also disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  Whilst it accepted hedging was a condition  of the 
loan, the parameters of the hedging arrangements  were  left open.  It said it could have opted  for a 5 
year vanilla cap on a notional sum of £525,000 with a cap set at 7% or 8%, for example. 
L said it was not given enough clear information about break costs, so it could not make an informed 
decision about the hedging products on offer.
L maintains the bank did give it advice, but didnt think it necessary to pursue  the point as it was 
accepted the bank didnt  provide enough  information for L to make an informed decision. 
L said the banks pitch book  dated 22 December 2004 provided for a 5-year cap at 6.5% with a 
premium of £9,294, based on a notional £900,000. Had L been  made aware of this and the risks 
attached to the structured  collar, plus the size of potential break costs,  it would  have entered  into a 5-
year cap instead. It has obtained a report from an expert who priced a cap on a notional £525,000 at 
6.5% for 5-years at £7,200. L was interested in balancing the cost of the hedging product against the 
risks and would not simply have opted for the lowest cost. 
L said its consequential losses were being  forced  to enter into a new loan agreement  at a higher  rate 
of interest, additional bank fees and legal  and expert fees. It said it was unable to quantify these  at 
this stage until the cost of any proposed  alternative product had been agreed. It asked for the 
Ref: DRN61804425consequential loss claim to be dealt with separately, following a final decision on what alternative 
product it would have taken out.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given the size of the submissions  from both 
parties, I dont  intend to comment  on each and every  aspect, but to focus on what I consider to be the 
crux of the complaint. 
The bank has said this product was complex  and the explanations about  features, risks benefits and 
break costs did not or may not have  met regulatory  standards. It feels the structured collar was mis-
sold because of this. I agree  the product was complex  and I have not seen sufficient evidence  to 
persuade me the potential  scale of the break costs was made clear. So I have considered  what  L 
would have done instead  if it had not bought the structured collar.
Some sort of hedging was a condition  of the loan and there is little persuasive evidence  L was 
considering refinancing with a different  lender.  So I think it is likely L would have taken some sort of 
hedging product through the bank.
What would  L have  done  if it had clearer  information about the risks, features,  benefits and break 
costs?
The bank says L would have taken out a vanilla  collar if it had not taken  out the structured  collar. By 
taking any sort of collar  L would have been exposed to the possibility of high break  costs. The bank 
accepts that it didnt  do enough to make it clear to L that it could face potentially very high break  costs  
if L wanted to exit the arrangement early. So if L had a particular need for flexibility,  for example if 
there was a reasonable  prospect it might repay the loan early, tying in to a product with potentially  
high break  costs is less likely to be something it would knowingly have done. 
L says its business  model was to repay loans  quickly  and it needed flexibility. On that basis, it says it 
wouldnt have entered into the collar  if it had been told about the break costs and if the product had 
been better explained in general. There is some evidence  to support this. L says there were  
discussions in 2003 about  the sale of a property belonging to L. I understand from L that these 
negotiations were parked but they might be revived  at a later date. If those negotiations were 
revived and a sale took place, it is possible L might  have used some or all of the proceeds to repay 
some or all of its loan. L says there were  other negotiations and potential  sales of property  over the 
years, either  involving L or another  company  owned by Ls owner.
There is also a fax from L to the bank, dated 27 October 2003, indicating that it wanted to rearrange 
its finances with five objectives in mind. One of those  objectives was to Incorporate the ability to 
repay loans  over short or long term within a flexible  arrangement dependent  on future purchases. 
Whilst dated  just over a year before this refinancing, it does  seem to support Ls submissions  that it 
required flexibility,  even  potentially  in the short term, to repay  loans. The collar, with its potentially high 
break costs did not offer that flexibility. 
On the other hand, I do note from a financial  report drafted by the bank dated 25 January 2005 that it 
records [L] takes the view that total debt of [L] is unlikely to fall below £1 million over the next 15 
years. I have little reason to doubt this is an accurate reflection of conversations with L. I am not 
aware that there were any ongoing negotiations about  potentially selling  any of Ls other properties at 
that point.  The collar  had a relatively short  term of 5 years and the hedging only covered half the loan, 
so even if some of the loan was repaid,  a collar could still be useful in protecting  the remainder  of the 
loan.
L was given the option of taking out a cap and was provided with some pricing information  for swaps,  
collars and caps. The bank  sent this to Ls owner  by email on 24 December 2004.  These figures were 
Ref: DRN61804426based on a notional amount  of £900,000 and prices were  set out for 10, 7 and 5 years at 5.5%,  6% 
and 6.5%.  A cap for 6.5% for a 5-year term was priced  at £9,294.
L says it did not opt for the cap because some of the documents it had received suggested a price  in 
the region of £61,000  (against the £1,600  paid for the structured collar). L says it didnt read the 
earlier pricing  document, quoting the £9,294 premium for a five-year cap at 6.5%, at the time,  but if L 
had read it and had been made aware of the risks of the collar,  it would have entered  into the five-
year cap. 
It seems unlikely to me that L didnt read the pricing  document which priced  the five-year  cap at 
£9,294. Relatively few documents seem to have been sent to L about pricing  and given  this was an 
important condition  of the lending,  I think its more likely than not that it was read at the time.  Its quite 
possible L simply doesnt recall this now, given that many  years have passed since. 
Even if L was aware that the five-year cap at 6.5% cost £9,294 and decided  not to take that option 
because of its cost,  that doesnt mean it would have taken the same course of action if it had been 
aware of the potential scale  of the break costs associated with the collar.  
A vanilla collar appears to have cost around £5,800, based on the banks redress calculation  showing 
payments of £290 per quarter. If Im wrong  on this point, Id be grateful if the bank could provide the 
correct figure. The structured collar  cost £1,600 and the cap at 6.5% cost £9,294. 
There are lots of factors to weigh  up in this case, but having weighed  everything up, I think L would 
most likely have opted for a vanilla collar. I say this for a number of reasons. It was required to take 
out some form of hedging product. I have not seen persuasive evidence to make me think  it would 
have sought lending from an alternative  source. L could  have taken out a cap but it seems likely  it did 
not like the price,  so I do not think it would have pursued that option.  It is questionable whether  L 
required flexibility,  during  what was a relatively short term at five years. While the fax from 2003 
suggests flexibility was required, the report from January  2005,  closer  to the time of sale,  suggests  L 
did not expect its debt to fall below £1m in the next 15 years. I do not think  the two are necessarily  
incompatible. By hedging  50% of the debt there was still scope to repay  a substantial part of the loan 
if the opportunity arose. So a vanilla collar for a notional  amount of £900,000 gave L some flexibility to 
repay some of the £1,700,000 debt.  The prospect of interest rates falling substantially  below the 
4.25% floor would probably have seemed relatively unlikely in late 2004/early  2005. So the risk of 
having to make substantial payments under the vanilla collar probably  seemed low. 
Overall, based on the above, I consider it likely L would have opted  for a vanilla  collar due to its cost.
Did L need to hedge £900,000 or £525,000?  
The loan terms and conditions say adequate interest rate hedging to be in place to cover a minimum 
of 50% of overall debt for 10 years prior to drawdown of the additional  £300,000.  I think the 
adjudicator construed  this to mean 50% of the initial  debt was to be hedged before any additional 
drawdowns were taken  into account. The initial loan was for £1,050,000  and so he thought only 
£525,000 needed to be hedged. But I think the use of the words overall debt suggests 50% of all 
sums expected to be borrowed were to be hedged.
The call report dated 21 December 2004 supports  this view, suggesting the hedging will be on 50% of 
£1.7-£1.75 million, the overall  anticipated  debt.  On balance, I think the evidence  suggests  the parties  
knew and expected the hedging to be on a minimum of 50% of the overall funds being borrowed   
around £1.75  million. On that basis, hedging a notional  amount of £900,000  seems to have been 
appropriate and in line with the lending conditions.
It follows I dont agree with the adjudicators  view that redress should  be based on a collar for a 
notional £525,000. 
Consequential loss
Ref: DRN61804427L says it wants to wait until basic redress has been established before making a quantified claim for 
consequential loss. I consider L should have been able to formulate a consequential loss claim by 
now. If it considers it suffered  consequential  losses as a result of taking out the hedging products, it 
should be able to point  to what those losses were. For example, it has said, had it not been for the 
additional payments it made as a result  of the structured collar, it would  not have needed  to liquidate  
assets in 2010. I do not think it is unreasonable  to suggest it ought  to be able to tell me what  those 
assets were, what it has lost and provide evidence  to support these losses.  I do not think it is 
reasonable to expect  this service to consider individual elements of Ls losses as separate 
complaints. 
L can provide submissions  in relation to its consequential losses in response to this provisional 
decision, but if it does not, I do not think this service  will consider them  at a later date.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I think the offer made by National  Westminster Bank Plc is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Greg Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6180442