K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about advice from Greystone Financial Services  Limited  (Greystone) 
to invest in two unregulated investments  via his SIPP (self-invested personal  pension). 
background
Much of the argument  has centred  on whether Mr K had complained  too late. Ive considered 
the time bar issues elsewhere. I issued a further provisional jurisdiction decision on 2 
September 2019 and a jurisdiction decision on 27 September 2019.  For the reasons I set out 
I said that Mr Ks complaint about  his investments in the Rock City Park Jersey Unit Trust 
(Rock City) and the Rock UK Industrial  Fund (Rock Industrial) had been made in time. 
Im now focusing on the merits of the complaint. Ive considered whether Mr Ks complaint 
should succeed before. In the provisional decision I issued on 8 March 2019 I set out the 
background, what the parties had said and my provisional findings,  upholding  the complaint. 
Ive repeated some of what I said below.   
In brief,  in December  2006 Greystone advised Mr K to invest  £25,000 of his SIPP fund in 
Rock City. And in July 2007 Greystone recommended that he invest  a further £25,000  from 
his SIPP  fund in Rock Industrial. Both investments have since failed.
Mr K says the investments didnt meet his requirements and he hadnt  been given best 
advice. Greystones adviser  had faced criminal charges. Mr K said that called into question  
the advice and the advisers integrity  and conduct.  Mr  K also said that Greystone should  
have contacted him to review his SIPP when  the advisers employment ended. Mr K later 
added that hed had to close his business  and hed been  unable  to afford to continue  his 
pension contributions. His circumstances meant he couldnt afford to risk his capital and he 
wasnt a high net worth client.  
Greystone didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. In my provisional decision dated  
8 March 2019 I summarised  Greystones  position as: 
The recommendations were suitable: Mr Ks attitude to risk was balanced or realistic;
he had preference for commercial property  linked investments; his SIPP  portfolio was
diversified and valued at about  £170,000   made  up of £97,000 cash;  £35,000 in UK
and international equities  and total return funds;  £25,000 in another Rock investment
(Rock Leisure) and £15,000 in an EIS (Enterprise Investment Scheme). His overall  
portfolio (excluding  his home and business  assets) was worth  about £220,000. He 
was relatively young  he was 44 in 2006 and had his own company.
His SIPP had been established (with Greystones adviser) in 2000. Hed previously
invested in UCIS  including  £50,000  in a Matrix fund which returned £97,000 and
£25,000 in Rock Leisure in November 2005 which also made a significant  positive
return. The adviser was looking for other  commercial property schemes  to replace
the Matrix investment  and to use the large cash holding more productively.
In a suitability  report dated 30 August 2006 Greystone recommended investments of
£25,000 each  in the Rock  City and the Close Brothers Eighth Special Opportunities 
Fund. In July 2007 Greystone recommended that Mr K invest  £25,000 in Rock
Industrial.
Greystones adviser had a long relationship with Mr K and knew  his client  thoroughly
by 2006/2007. Mr K recognised the essential  balance between accepting  a higher
degree of risk in return for potential higher growth.  He understood a balanced
Ref: DRN66785122portfolio would include investments across the risk spectrum and individual  elements
would be higher risk.
The adviser made Mr K aware  of the risks verbally and in writing.  With each of the
suitability letters the adviser provided an appendix  summarising the key aspects of
the investment,  including the risks and disadvantages. Mr K was given the 
prospectus for each investment (which included several pages highlighting the
associated risks). He signed  risk notices expressly confirming he understood  the
risks and hed been made aware  the investments were unregulated  and there was no
access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Greystone explained specific  risks  the tenant  defaulting and there being a break
clause in the lease  for the Rock City investment. And it was mentioned  in the
appendix to the suitability  report  and in the information memorandum.
A portfolio for an investor  with a balanced or realistic attitude to risk (as Mr K was at
the time) shouldnt  be comprised wholly of investments in the middle  of the risk
spectrum  its appropriate  for a balanced portfolio to contain  both lower and higher
risk investments. Whats  key is the overall composition. And an investment portfolio
should be viewed  taking into account  all of the investors assets.
The fact that a product is unregulated or has surrender restrictions doesnt  of itself
mean its unsuitable. The Rock City and Rock  Industrial investments each
represented about 11% of Mr Ks overall  portfolio. That was a reasonable proportion
(judged at the time) and provided diversity to the portfolio to reduce risk and volatility
associated with traditional asset classes while also reflecting  Mr Ks keen interest in
commercial property.
Mr K came  within the exemptions  for the promotion of UCIS  hed invested in
another UCIS within the previous 30 months; Greystones adviser had taken
reasonable steps to ensure that the investment was suitable for him; Mr K was also
potentially a high net worth individual.
It wasnt Greystones advice which caused  Mr Ks losses. It was the unprecedented
and unforeseeable fall in the commercial  property market. That didnt happen until
well after 2006/2007  at that time the property market was booming and commercial
property was seen  as a conservative investment.
My provisional findings were as follows: 
Greystone was required to give suitable  advice, taking into account Mr Ks knowledge and
experience, financial  situation and investment objectives. Ive considered  carefully the
arguments Greystone  has put forward. But I dont think Greystones advice was suitable.
Mr K did have some assets  outside  his SIPP (and leaving aside his home and business). But
these were relatively modest.  I dont think his wider  financial  position impacts hugely  on the
suitability of the advice or means that Mr K could  afford to take a higher degree  of risk with
his SIPP  fund.
Mr Ks attitude to risk was assessed as medium  or realistic. I dont find that particularly
clear. I think  its somewhat contradictory. Greystones description doesnt  help much:  
  you accept that in order to achieve  your financial goals over the medium  to long term
there will be a higher degree  of risk to your capital in return for higher potential income and
growth. You have confirmed that you are willing  to take a more speculative  attitude to
investment risk if need be to take advantage of tax planning opportunities, and accept there
will be a strong  possibility  of short term sharp  rises and falls and overall volatility.
Ref: DRN66785123A willingness to take a higher degree of risk and a more speculative  attitude to investment
risk isnt necessarily consistent  with what Id regard as a medium or balanced attitude to
investment risk. Id probably interpret the description  as meaning an investor whose risk
profile was on the higher side of medium.
So Greystone  had to recommend investments that matched that. I accept  that its the overall
makeup of the SIPP portfolio that matters. It may not be unreasonable to have some
alternative or less conventional or traditional  assets. But, overall,  the SIPP portfolio should
still reflect  the investors attitude  to risk. I havent  seen  anything to suggest  Mr K was told or
had agreed that the SIPP would house  a very significant proportion  of more speculative
investments such that the risk profile  of the SIPP would be over and above the medium  (or
slightly above medium)  investment  strategy Mr K had said he wanted to adopt.
I dont think looking at the SIPP portfolio overall helps Greystone. In my view it makes
matters worse. I note Rock City and Rock  Industrial  werent the only UCIS or higher risk
investments that Mr K had  all of which had been recommended by Greystone. And, in
between investing  in Rock City and Rock  Industrial,  Mr K had also invested (again on
Greystones advice)  a further £25,000  in another UCIS. That was also a higher  risk
investment. I think Mr K has lost that money  too.
The Rock  City and Rock  Industrial represented some 22% of Mr Ks SIPP investments.
Thats increased if the other UCIS  and/or higher risk funds are taken  into account. UCIS
funds are generally highly  leveraged. Returns  can be enhanced if the assets  increase in
value. But losses can be magnified too. The regulator has said:
UCIS are generally regarded as being characterised by a high degree of volatility,  illiquidity
or both  and therefore are usually regarded as speculative  investments. This means that in
practice they are rarely regarded as suitable for more than a small share of an investors
portfolio.
The Rock  City and the Rock Industrial investments were unusual  and specialist. They  were
concentrated and highly geared, subject to liquidity risks (with no established secondary
market) and dependent on the commercial  property market (either in terms of resale  values
or rental yields) not suffering a downturn. There was a risk that investors  wouldnt get back
the amount theyd  invested and could lose all of it.
I think Greystones adviser  should  have recognised that the multiple  risks involved meant
that the investments werent  suitable  for an investor such as Mr K. And, overall, I think  the
risk profile of Mr Ks SIPP was higher than medium. A very significant  proportion was held in
what Id regard as higher  risk or even speculative investments. I cant  see that sort of SIPP
portfolio was suitable for someone who wanted to take a medium  risk (or slightly higher)
investment approach.
Greystone has pointed to the risk warnings in the appendices to the suitability letters,  the
information about risks in the prospectuses and the risk warning notices. But providing
information about the funds and the risks involved doesnt change Greystones obligation to
give suitable advice.  Nor does  the fact that Mr K may have  signed  declarations  about  being
a sophisticated  investor.  Greystone had a duty to give Mr K suitable advice. Investing such a
substantial proportion of Mr Ks SIPP in higher risk funds was unsuitable for him.
The adjudicator also referred to the restrictions on the promotion  of UCIS. He didnt think  Mr
K was a person to whom  UCIS should have been  promoted. As Ive noted Mr K had
Ref: DRN66785124previously invested  in UCIS. So, potentially and on paper at least, hed have come within the
category 1 exemption in COB 3 Annex 5 of COB 3.11 (which  applied up to 31 October
2007). It permitted the promotion of UCIS to investors who were already  participants  in a
UCIS or had been in the last 30 months. In any event my decision doesnt turn on whether
Greystone could lawfully promote UCIS to Mr K but on the suitability or otherwise of the
investments Greystone recommended for Mr Ks SIPP.
It seems  Mr Ks previous  investments in UCIS  had done well. But that doesnt  mean  those
sorts of investment were suitable for him, just that he didnt suffer any loss. I can see Mr K
would, understandably, have been  to repeat that and invest  in similar funds. But I think
Greystone should  have  steered him away from that on the basis that type of investment was
unsuitable for him on the basis that it was too risky.  The outcome for his Rock City and Rock
Industrial investments was different and he lost his money. I think that loss was caused  by
Greystones unsuitable  advice.
Greystone was disappointed that I was minded to uphold the complaint.  About the redress  
Id proposed Greystone said:
The effect was to turn Mr Ks investment into a guaranteed, capital secure,  
investment and indemnify him for the returns which hed sought and which, at the 
time, he was prepared to accept  there  was a risk he wouldnt achieve. Redressing 
him by reference to the total loss of potential growth  means  hell have benefited  from 
the balanced portfolio which Greystone helped him to construct whilst also having 
the potential growth of individual investments within that portfolio underwritten by 
Greystone. That isnt fair or reasonable. Its effectively a claim about investment 
performance which should be dismissed  under DISP  3.3.4R (13).
It isnt reasonable  for Mr K to argue  that he wouldnt have agreed to the investments 
in 2006/2007 if hed known the full details  of the risks involved (which he did) but, 
when those risks materialised, be provided  with a full capital  return and potential 
level of growth  and so underwritten by Greystone. 
The proposed  redress formula doesnt  produce  a fair and reasonable outcome in all 
the circumstances  which is what this service is required to achieve. The use of a 
generic formula based  on achieving returns in line with the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  index isnt credible in Mr Ks case.
Its inconsistent to say that, on the one hand, Mr K wouldnt have accepted the risk or 
volatility associated with the investments but, on the other hand, award redress 
calculated by reference to a benchmark index based substantially  on assets subject 
to strong  volatility and aimed for a higher  return.
A more suitable approach would be to compare the actual performance of the 
investments with that of suitable alternative comparative funds which it would have 
been appropriate to include in Mr Ks portfolio, based on his history of behaviour  and 
objectives as disclosed to Greystone at the time.
The two funds have  been wound up. The end date for the calculation  should be the 
date of end of fund
Mr K suggested a higher award for trouble and upset was merited. His pension hadnt been  
reviewed when the adviser left Greystone. Given the circumstances of the advisers 
departure Greystone should have assigned another adviser to manage/review  Mr Ks SIPP. 
That might be grounds  for awarding an enhanced sum for stress and inconvenience in line 
with the case  of Baugniet v Capita Employee  Benefits Limited [2017] EWHC 501 (Ch).
Ref: DRN66785125my findings
As Ive said,  much  of the argument has centred on whether Mr Ks complaint has been  made  
in time. And, as Ive also said, Ive considered that elsewhere. But were  required to keep the 
question of our jurisdiction open throughout our decision  making  process. Having considered  
the matter again and in the absence of any further  comments about the time bar issue, my 
view remains  as set out in my jurisdiction  decision  dated  27 September  2019   that we can 
consider Mr Ks complaint about his Rock City and Rock Industrial investments. 
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My views as to whether  Greystones 
recommendations that Mr K invest in Rock City and Rock Industrial were suitable  remain  as 
set out in my provisional decision and recapped above. I dont think the funds were  suitable. 
On that basis Im upholding the complaint.  
Ive considered carefully Greystones comments about the redress I proposed.  I dont agree 
that it effectively means that the investments were  guaranteed  and Mr Ks capital was 
secure. Had the advice  been suitable  then Greystone  wouldnt be responsible for the losses  
Mr K has sustained  in respect of those investments. But the point is that Greystones advice 
wasnt suitable. So Greystone is responsible for the consequences of that. And it isnt about  
whether Mr K agreed  to Greystones recommendations   Greystone shouldnt have advised  
him to invest  as he did.  
Greystone refers to Mr K having benefited  from the balanced SIPP portfolio that Greystone 
helped him to construct. I agree that the overall portfolio should usually be considered. And, 
generally, its the overall risk profile that matters. A medium risk portfolio may include some 
higher risk funds balanced by lower risk holdings. It may not be fair to uphold  a complaint 
about a particular investment which may have  lost money without taking into account the 
performance of the portfolio overall.  That said, where different investments have been 
recommended over time,  each instance  of advice might ground a separate  complaint. 
But here I have  considered the overall SIPP portfolio. And, as Ive said,  I dont think  that 
helps Greystone, given  that Rock City and Rock  Industrial werent Mr Ks only higher risk 
SIPP investments.  I dont see the risk profile  of Mr Ks SIPP matched an investor  with a 
medium or slightly higher  attitude to risk.
And, again as Ive said, Mr Ks previous UCIS  investments  may have  done  well. But that 
doesnt mean they were suitable  for him  just that he didnt suffer  any loss so he didnt 
make any complaint. It doesnt mean  that he cant now complain about other investments 
which were the subject of separate  recommendations and which he says were unsuitable 
and in respect of which he did suffer loss.  
The dismissal rule which Greystone has cited doesnt apply here: DISP 3.3.4R was 
amended with effect from 9 July 2015.  There are different grounds for dismissal depending  
on whether a complaint was referred to this service  on or after 9 July 2015. Mr Ks complaint 
was referred to us in November 2015.  Regardless  of the date his complaint was made to 
Greystone) its the dismissal grounds which apply post 9 July 2015 which are relevant and 
which dont include DISP  3.3.4R (13).  But in any event I dont agree that Mr Ks complaint is 
about investment  performance  its about the suitability or otherwise of Greystones  advice.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  having  found that Greystones advice was unsuitable, 
my starting point is to try to put Mr K, as far as possible, in the position hed be in now if 
Ref: DRN66785126Greystone had given  him suitable  advice.  I think hed still have  invested  the money he did 
but hed have invested differently. 
In some cases it might be possible to say what investments  an investor would have  made 
instead  for example, if an alternative  fund, which would have been suitable, was discussed 
at the time. But, more  often, identifying a particular  alternative and suitable investment many  
years after the event and without the benefit  of hindsight will be difficult. So we may take the 
view that it would be fairer  and easier  to calculate redress  by reference to a benchmark. I 
think thats the situation here. I think thats a fair and reasonable approach.  
I dont agree that the benchmark  Ive suggested is inconsistent with what  Ive said about why 
the complaint  should be upheld. Mr K was prepared to take some degree of risk. Greystone 
had assessed  his attitude to risk as medium or realistic  I said that probably meant his risk 
profile was on the higher side of medium. I maintain the index Ive suggested is a fair 
measure of return for someone who was prepared to take some risk. 
Nor do I agree that the end date for the loss calculation should be when the Rock  City and 
Rock Industrial funds  were wound up. Because of Greystones unsuitable  advice Mr Ks not 
only lost the money  he invested but the returns it would, suitably invested, have generated 
up to the date hes redressed.  So its right to use the date of my decision to calculate Mr Ks 
losses up to date. 
Ive also considered what Mr Ks said about  the award for distress  and inconvenience  and, in 
particular, his comments about Greystones failure to appoint  a new adviser. But, even if a 
new adviser had been  appointed and Mr Ks SIPP  portfolio reviewed, Im not sure what could 
have been done in respect of the two investments which are the subject of this complaint. I 
dont think Mr K would  have been  able to sell them and so rebalance his portfolio.  The award 
Ive made  for financial loss is to be calculated at the date of this decision (with interest if not 
paid promptly) so Mr Ks financial loss will be redressed right up to date.  
Im not minded  to increase the award  for distress and inconvenience. I dont think  the court 
case Mr Ks referred to is directly  relevant.  It was an appeal by a complainant  against  a 
determination of the Pensions Ombudsman  which included an award of £750 as 
compensation for non-financial injustice. Amongst other things the court said the Pensions 
Ombudsman should consider increasing the upper limit for compensation in certain 
circumstances from £1,000 (set following  a case decided in 1998)  to £1,600 (to take inflation  
into account).  
The Pensions Ombudsman is an entirely  separate  complaints handling service with different 
rules and jurisdiction. I dont think the level of that services awards is directly comparable  to 
ours. Im satisfied here that an award of £250  for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what wed usually award in case  such  as this.  
So my redress is unchanged from that set out in my provisional decision and which Ive 
repeated here. To compensate Mr K fairly Greystone should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ks Rock City and Rock  Industrial investments with
that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference  between  the fair value
and the actual value.
Greystone should also pay any interest,  as set out below.
If theres a loss, Greystone should pay such amount as may be required into Mr Ks
SIPP to increase its value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest.
Ref: DRN66785127The amount  paid should allow for the effect of any charges and any available  tax
relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with
any existing protection  or allowance.
If Greystone is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ks pension  plan it should  pay
that amount  direct  to him. But, had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The
notional allowance  should  be calculated using Mr Ks actual or expected  marginal
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
 For example, if Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected  retirement
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75%
of the compensation.
In addition Greystone  should pay Mr K £250  for trouble and upset caused to him as a
result of the issues raised.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Greystone deducts income
tax from the interest  it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. Greystone
should give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the
tax if appropriate.
investment name
status Benchmarkfrom
("start date")to
("end date")additional interest
Rock City
and
Rock UK 
Industrial now wound 
upFTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision  8% simple  from 
date of my final 
decision to date 
of settlement  if 
not paid in full 
within 28 days 
of my final 
decision
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. I understand
that both investments have failed. So the actual values  should be assumed to be nil for the
purposes of the calculation.
If Greystone  considers  there is any possibility that Mr K may recover  some  value from the
investments in the future it may wish to require that Mr K provides an undertaking to that
effect.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to
the fair value  calculation  from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,
income or other payment  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at the
point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation  from that point
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations  simpler, I will
Ref: DRN66785128accept if Greystone totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of
deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (previously known as the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  Return  Index) is made up of diversified
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr Ks circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Greystone Financial  Services Limited  must  redress  Mr K as Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6678512