K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about  a loan she took out with Everyday Lending Limited,  trading as 
Everyday Loans,  in January 2013. Ms B says it was irresponsible for the company to give 
her the loan, as it should have been  obvious to them that she could not afford  to pay it back. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in October 2020 explaining why I intended to 
uphold Ms Bs complaint. A copy of my provisional  decision is attached  and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  evidence they would like me to consider  
before I issued a final decision. Ms B accepted my provisional decision and it appears that 
Everyday Lending  agreed to settle the complaint.  In any event, I havent received any further 
evidence from either  party.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with anything  further  to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings as set out in my provisional decision.  It follows that I uphold      
Ms Bs complaint for the same reasons as those  set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things  right
Ms B shouldnt repay  more than the £5,000 she borrowed.  I am not making any finding as to
whether or not Everyday Lending  did anything wrong when they sold Ms B life cover
alongside this loan. However, as I find the loan should not have been agreed,  it follows that
Ms B would  not have taken out the life cover but for the sale of the loan. From the
information I have  it doesnt seem  that she made a claim on this cover and so I think  any
money she paid Everyday Lending in respect of this  and the related £300 document fee  
should be refunded to her. 
Everyday Lending  Limited shouldnt have  given Ms B the loan. So:
a)Everyday Lending Limited should  add together the total of the repayments made by 
Ms B towards interest, fees and charges on the loan. 
b)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Ms B 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date Ms B originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
Everyday Lending  Limited should  then refund the amounts  calculated  in a) and b) 
c)Everyday Lending Limited should  remove any adverse information recorded on      
Ms Bs credit  file in relation to the loan.  
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Lending to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms B a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if Ms B asks for one.
Ref: DRN68720172my final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint against Everyday Lending  Limited and require them  to pay Ms B 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68720173copy of my provisional decision
Complaint
Ms B has complained  about a loan she took out with Everyday Lending Limited,  trading  as Everyday  
Loans, in January  2013.  Ms B says it was irresponsible for the company to give her the loan, as it 
should have been obvious  to them that she could not afford to pay it back. 
Background
In January 2013 Ms B took out a loan with Everyday Lending. The loan was for £5,000 (plus  a 
documentation fee of £300  and life cover of £591.15). The annual percentage rate was 69.3% and the 
total interest to be charged on the loan was £7,486.70. Ms B would  pay two monthly  payments of 
£150, followed by 46 payments of £284.30.  This meant, in total, shed  be required to pay back  
£13,377. The main purpose of the loan was debt  consolidation.
Just over a year after taking out the loan, Ms B was unable to keep up the repayments - and she 
ended up on a debt management plan. She paid off the outstanding  debt in July 2018 after 
remortgaging her home. 
Ms B says when she applied for the loan she was already  heavily in debt with payday loans which 
had spiralled  out of control. And shed  missed her mortgage payment that month. She believes her 
financial situation should have been apparent to Everyday  Lending  and that they acted irresponsibly 
by giving  her the loan.  
Everyday Lending disagreed. They  said they conducted proper affordability checks   which included  
calculating Ms Bs income and expenditure, doing a credit search  and asking  for her latest bank 
statements and pay slips. They say its highly unlikely this loan caused Ms Bs change  in 
circumstances, as she paid it for a year before entering the debt management plan.
Our adjudicator looked  at Ms Bs complaint but didnt  uphold it. They thought Everyday Lending had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  and had made  a reasonable decision to lend. They  
didnt think the extra bank statement information Ms B had shown us would  have caused Everyday 
Lending to reach a different  decision, if theyd  seen it. So the adjudicator didnt  think Everyday 
Lending had been irresponsible in giving  Ms B the loan.
Ms B didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusion. So the complaint has come to me to decide.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account  relevant  law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when  Ms Bs loan was agreed.  Its Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance document (or ILG) set out what lenders like Everyday Loans needed to do before 
and after agreeing credit. 
Taking this into account, I think  the overarching  questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstance  of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending  complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that    
Ms B would be able repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Ms B would have been able to do so?
Ref: DRN68720174Did Everyday Lending  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine  that Everyday Lending did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Ms B and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did Everyday  Lending, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Ms B would 
be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place  when  Everyday  Lending  lent to Ms B required it to carry  out a reasonable 
assessment of whether  Ms B could  afford to repay her loan in a sustainable  manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability  check.
The affordability check  should  have been borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause financial difficulties  or adverse 
consequences for Ms B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday  Lending to only think  about  the 
likelihood that it would get its money back without considering the impact of the loan repayments on 
Ms B herself.
The checks Everyday Lending carried out also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances 
of the loan application. In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check  will depend on 
a number of factors including, but not limited to, the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a 
proportionate check will more likely than not look different for different loan applications.
In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate checks should generally be more  thorough: 
the lower a customers income (as it could be harder  to make any loan repayments from a 
lower income);
the higher the amount  to be repaid  (as it could be harder to meet a higher repayment from a 
given income);
the longer the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which  could  affect how detailed a proportionate check  should  be 
when it comes to a loan application  including,  but not limited to, any indications of borrower 
vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in the consumers future circumstances. Ive thought about 
all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ive carefully considered what reasonable  and proportionate checks  should  have looked like
when Everyday Lending  was in the process of approving the loan for Ms B. And Ive thought 
carefully about what checks  Everyday Lending say they carried out and whether  those were  
proportionate in the circumstances. 
Ms B was provided with a relatively large  loan to be repaid over a significant period of time (four 
years). The interest charged on the loan was high and meant that shed pay back  more than 
double what she had borrowed (£13,377 for a £5,000  loan). The monthly  repayments were also 
high (higher than what she was paying before taking the loan out). So this was a substantial  
and long term commitment. In these circumstances I would have expected Everyday Lending to 
carry out thorough checks when assessing whether  or not to provide Ms B with this loan. 
Ms B says Everyday Lending didnt carry out proper  checks  and that they only looked  at one 
bank statement. And she says they ignored information on that one bank statement  such as 
that she had missed  her mortgage payment that month and that she had other money leaving 
her account  (like a car repayment). She also points  out she had returned direct debit charges  
and overdraft  fee charges.
Ref: DRN68720175Everyday Lending believe  the affordability checks they carried out were sufficient. In support of what 
they say, Everyday Lending have provided  us with some  information  about  the checks they carried 
out and the information they used when deciding  to lend Ms B the money. This included  internal 
system notes,  a copy of the income and expenditure assessment they completed and a copy  of       
Ms Bs bank  statements for the period  20 December  2012 to 25 January 2013. They also sent us a 
copy of the credit information they had sight of and copies of Ms Bs payslips.
Its fair to say Everyday Lending did gather  quite a lot of information when  deciding whether to give 
Ms B this loan. And I can see that the income  figures they used for the income and expenditure 
assessment were reasonable and supported by the payslips they had. Its clear  that Ms Bs income  
fluctuated month to month, but Everyday  Lending  used  the lower income  figure and also disregarded 
the £250  a month being paid by Ms Bs ex-partner. I think this was a reasonable approach  to take as 
this income couldnt be guaranteed. 
I also acknowledge that Ms Bs credit search didnt  show anything particularly concerning. There  was 
a small default from several years earlier. And Ms B had one credit card which was close to its credit 
limit. But her indebtedness,  as shown  on the credit search, was low. 
But I have concerns  about  the bank statement  information Everyday Lending saw. Looking at what  it 
showed  and more importantly  what it didnt  show  I dont think Everyday Lending carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate  checks.  These  statements clearly showed that Ms B hadnt paid her 
mortgage in the five weeks covered by the statement. And, whilst I can see that Everyday Lending 
asked about some returned  direct  debits and some of the other entries  on her statements,  theres  no 
evidence in the system  notes  to suggest they asked about the missing mortgage payment. I find this a 
significant oversight.
Everyday Lending also relied on an estimate of Ms Bs outgoings, calculated at 35%. But they didnt 
need to do that as they had the bank statements showing  her actual outgoings. I can also see from 
the handwritten  comments at the top of the statement that Everyday Lending were  aware Ms B had 
borrowed around  £2,400 from a short  term lender (Ill call them lender  A) since October  2012 and was 
making payments to another lender (Ill call Lender B). None of this was reflected in the credit search 
information Everyday Lending had.
The purpose  of the loan was stated to be for consolidation. But instead of lowering the monthly 
amount to be paid, Everyday  Lendings  figures suggest  it would increase  it by around £25. 
So for these reasons I dont think the checks Everyday Lending carried out were reasonable  and 
proportionate. I think they needed to carry out further checks to be able to satisfy  themselves that    
Ms B would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way.
Would proportionate checks on this loan have indicated to Everyday Lending that Ms B would have 
been unable to repay it in a sustainable manner?
As I dont think Everyday  Lending carried  out proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider what 
would have happened had Everyday Lending carried out further checks. 
I cant  be sure what further checks  Everyday Lending  would have carried out and what  these would  
have showed. Ordinarily  I think it would have been reasonable for Everyday Lending to have looked 
at bank statements  from three months before the loan application. But as Everyday Lending were 
aware Ms B had borrowed from Lender A in October 2012, I think its reasonable to look at her bank 
statements from this period.  I think its likely that further checks would have  included looking at this 
information. 
So Ive reviewed Ms Bs bank statements from October 2012  to January 2013. Having done so, I think  
that had Everyday Lending  carried out further affordability checks its unlikely that they would  have 
thought the lending to Ms B was sustainable.
Ref: DRN68720176Everyday Lending estimated  Ms Bs living expenses as £894.09  (excluding the mortgage repayment 
and payments to other creditors). This estimate was calculated at 35% of Mrs Bs income  of 
£2,097.42 plus an extra  allowance for her children. But the bank statements  Ive seen indicate that 
this was over optimistic and didnt accurately reflect her actual  spending on bills, petrol, shopping food 
and other  essentials. 
Ms Bs bank  statement from October  2012  shows that her living expenses  (not including  any 
mortgage payments or payments to other creditors) were  around  £2,400. This is over £1,500 more 
than Everyday  Lendings  estimate.  In terms of the overall money leaving her account  compared  to 
what was coming in, there was a shortfall of about £1,000. It looks like she had to rely on short  term 
loans to try and fill the gap. Even  after borrowing £1,450 from Lender A, Ms Bs overall  expenditure 
still exceeded the money coming  into her account. This statement also shows that Ms B was 
overdrawn at various points in the month and was also charged  an overdraft  usage fee which  would 
have related to the previous month  despite not having any agreed overdraft  facility.
Its possible that October 2012 might have been an unusual month for Ms B in terms of her account 
activity given  the borrowing from Lender A, so Ive gone on to consider Ms Bs November 2012  bank 
statement. This shows Ms Bs living  expenses (again not including her mortgage payment or 
repayment to other creditors) as around £1,300. Although  this is less than the previous month,  it is still 
over £400 more than Everyday Lendings estimate. This statement again  shows various points in the 
month when  Ms B went overdrawn. Although  this statement shows that the money coming  into her 
account exceeded the money leaving her account  this was only by around £144.  And at this point 
she still owed at least  £1,200 to Lender A from loans  taken in October  2012.   
The December 2012 statement  which includes  some  of the information Everyday Lending looked at 
when deciding  whether to lend  shows Ms Bs living expenses (again not including her mortgage  
payment or repayment to other creditors) as being around £2,300.  This is over £1,400 more than 
Everyday Lendings estimate. In terms of the overall  money coming into and leaving her account,  this 
shows that Mrs Bs outgoings were around £1,270 more than the money coming  into her account.    
Ms B borrowed  a further £950 from Lender A to try and fill this gap  but even  then her outgoings 
were around £300 higher  than what  came into her account. And she had not made  her mortgage 
repayment that month. 
The December statement  also shows two returned direct debits.  I can see that Everyday Lending did 
ask Ms B about the two returned direct debits in December 2012. And she apparently told them  this 
was because of a six week  gap between December 2012 and January 2013s  pay. However, they 
didnt appear to question why she needed  to take out a large short term loan within two days of 
receiving her pay but still couldnt make her mortgage repayment.
Ms B has told us she had to use the Everyday  Lending  consolidation loan to make up almost two 
mortgage payments. I note that at the point when Ms B would ordinarily have paid her mortgage in 
December 2012, she didnt have enough money in her account to pay it.  Instead  she seems to have 
used the majority of her salary and money from Lender A to repay a previous payday loan (£1,140). 
This meant  she didnt have  enough money to pay her mortgage. 
Ms Bs January  2013  statement shows that her account had a balance of £1,387.  However, this 
statement was produced  the day after Ms B was paid her main salary. It didnt take into account that 
Ms B still had as yet to pay back the £950 she had borrowed the previous month from Lender A. Nor 
did it take into account  that she had still to pay her mortgage payment from the previous month as 
well as her mortgage for January 2013. 
I think  its clear from the bank statements that Everyday Lending considerably underestimated Mrs Bs 
outgoings. Mrs B did not have a disposable income and this eventually resulted in her have 
insufficient funds to meet  her December 2012  mortgage repayment.  Although the loan Everyday  
Lending provided was meant to be in part for consolidation purposes,  this did not reduce  her 
Ref: DRN68720177outgoings, in fact it increased  them by a further £25. And although her loan was for £5,000, over the 
term of the loan she would have to pay back £13,377.
Taking everything Ive said into account, I think  Ms B was struggling to fund her day-to-day expenses 
and was relying  on credit to help meet her financial commitments. And I think  taking on an expensive 
and long term financial commitment like this loan had very real potential  to make her overall financial 
situation worse. 
For these  reasons, I dont think Ms B was going to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think  that if Everyday  Lending had conducted  proportionate checks they would have realised this. 
And I think Ms B has lost out because of what Everyday  Lending did wrong.
Did Everyday  Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ms B has told us that when she was unable to meet  her repayments  on the loan, Everyday lending  
bombarded her place of work with phone calls and were leaving messages  with her colleagues for 
her to phone them back about the loan. She told us this resulted in her having to take anti-
depressants and that she nearly lost her job because of this.
I appreciate that this must have been a distressing time for Ms B, however, I havent seen enough 
evidence to be able to conclude that Everyday Lending acted  unfairly towards Ms B. It seems they did 
agree to the reduced repayments proposed  in Ms Bs debt management plan. If Ms B wants  to 
provide further evidence or details as regards  this aspect of her complaint then I can consider  this 
further.
To conclude,  at present while  I do think  Ms B has lost out because Everyday Lending unfairly  
provided the loan to her in the first place, I havent seen anything to suggest  that they also acted  
unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in some other way.
Putting things right
Ms B shouldnt repay more  than the £5,000  she borrowed. I am not making any finding  as to
whether or not Everyday Lending did anything wrong  when they sold Ms B life cover
alongside this loan. However, as I find the loan should not have been agreed,  it follows that
Ms B would not have taken  out the life cover  but for the sale of the loan. From  the
information I have it doesnt seem that she made a claim on this cover  and so I think any
money she paid Everyday Lending in respect of this  and the related £300 document fee  should  be 
refunded to her. 
Everyday Lending Limited shouldnt have given Ms B the loan. So:
d)Everyday Lending Limited should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B 
towards interest, fees and charges on the loan. 
e)It should calculate  8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made  by Ms B which were  
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Ms B originally made  the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
Everyday Lending Limited should then refund the amounts calculated in a) and b) 
f)Everyday Lending Limited should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit 
file in relation to the loan.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Ms B a certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted, if Ms B asks for one.
Ref: DRN68720178My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint.  And I currently intend to require Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as outlined above. Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence that I get by 
1 November 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6872017