K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr C took out a PPI policy alongside a further  advance  on his mortgage in 1991. Mr C paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered his 
mortgage payments  in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr C, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill go 
through my reasoning.
 
Neither side have  the documents  from the sale, which is understandable given just how long 
ago it was, and given that the account has long since  closed. Indeed,  under data protection  
regulations, Nationwide were required to dispose of Mr Cs data rather  than hold onto it for 
too long. Mr C doesnt remember buying  PPI, but I also think thats understandable since  it 
was so long ago, and since buying insurance  is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully 
about whats most likely  to have happened  based on the limited  information I have.
By 1991, Mr C had already taken out a mortgage  and further advance with Nationwide, 
without buying  PPI. So he wouldve known he didnt have to take out PPI to get approved for 
his secured borrowing. It would have been  a very serious failing for Nationwide to have 
added the policy without Mr Cs permission, and Ive got no evidence which shows  thats 
what they did. Nor have  I seen any wider problems with their sales  process  from the time. 
And its too long ago for Nationwide to reasonably  be able to produce evidence to defend  
themselves. So on that basis,  I dont think  I can fairly  conclude  that its most likely 
Nationwide misled Mr C here. I think its more likely that Nationwide  gave Mr C a choice 
about whether  he wanted PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  even if, 
understandably, he no longer remembers doing  so. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so they didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
him. They did have  to give Mr C clear information  about the PPI, so he could decide  for 
himself whether it was right for him.
Ref: DRN68034382Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr C about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the policys  main exclusions or 
limitations. The policy was not expensive given  how much it would pay out in a claim, and it 
looks like it wouldve been affordable. And if Mr Cs circumstances changed, he could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty.
I understand Mr C had a different type of insurance, but that covered different things to what  
the PPI did. Mr C also said he had sick pay through work, but the PPI covered him for at 
least twice as long,  and it paid out on top of his sick pay, so he could use that for other  
things. And he doesnt seem to have had any other cover in case  he lost his job. Its worth 
bearing in mind that this mortgage  was Mr Cs sole responsibility, and if he fell behind on the 
payments he risked losing  his home.  So I think the PPI couldve been useful for him in 
protecting his home and giving some  peace of mind.  Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely  to have put Mr C off taking  out the cover.
Lastly, Mr C mentioned that he might have been  able to claim on the PPI in 1994, but didnt. 
But this particular PPI policy  finished in 1992  when he redeemed his mortgage, so it wasnt 
still in force in 1994.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6803438