K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage facility Mr C used to hold with 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc. Mr C is seeking over £132,000 in compensation for what he says are 
losses arising from how Clydesdale handled the portfolio.
background
Mr C originally complained about  several issues going back to 2008. However, in a decision  
on jurisdiction in June  of this year, a fellow ombudsman decided  that under our rules, we 
could only consider one element of the complaint, which is that in 2013,  Clydesdale  blocked 
Mr Cs attempt to apply  to his local authority for a House  of Multiple Occupancy (HMO)  
license on one of the properties  in the portfolio that it held as security for the BLT facility.
When our investigator looked  into that one issue, he wasnt persuaded Clydesdale  had done  
anything wrong. Mr C has asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive no intention of revisiting the jurisdiction decision my fellow  ombudsman  reached earlier 
this year;  so theres no ambiguity, my final decision here deals with the merits of one issue 
alone. That is, whether Clydesdale acted  fairly  in blocking Mr Cs application for an HMO 
license on a property  in his BTL portfolio
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is more straightforward  than it has been  made to look.
The starting position is that lenders  are entitled to exercise their commercial  judgement,  
especially when it comes  to assessing lending risks.  Generally speaking,  we wont 
second- guess or otherwise interfere with a lenders commercial judgement by substituting 
our assessment or risk in its place.  
By any reasonable assessment,  applying for a license  to operate  a property as an HMO  
represents a potential change of usage; where that property is already security  for a debt, it 
also represents a potentially significant change of risk. The first time Clydesdale  learned  of 
the HMO license application  was after Mr C had already made  it. That means Clydesdale 
hadnt been given an opportunity to assess how that might affect its risk exposure,  and so 
was entitled to refuse consent until it had been  given and exercised that opportunity.
What further impacted on the situation  was that the terms  of the facility allowed Clydesdale  
to insist on a review of the values of all of the security properties  and a reassessment of 
Ref: DRN65227462the rental income schedules at periodic intervals;  with the cost of these to be met by Mr C. At 
the time of the HMO license application,  all of these were overdue and Mr C wasnt  
agreeable to complying  with Clydesdales request for the reviews to take place. He did so 
later, but by then, it was too late for the HMO license.
Unfortunately for Mr C, Clydesdales stance  wasnt unfair and unreasonable. It was 
exercising its commercial  judgement by making it a condition  that Mr C to do something the 
underlying agreement required him to do in any event. Theres  no reasonable basis  for me to 
interfere with that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6522746