K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the refurbishment charges Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) have asked him to pay since he returned his car at the end of his finance  
agreement.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new vehicle in 2014. He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS and he voluntarily terminated the agreement,  as was his right,  in 
2018.
He agreed to leave  the car at the dealership where he was told an end of term inspection  
would take place. The terms of Mr Ss contract said that if the car wasnt returned in a good 
condition he would be charged for any refurbishment. Mr S says he left the car with the 
dealership on 10 March 2018  but didnt hear from VWFS until 19 June when they said the 
inspection had resulted in the need to charge him for four repairs  at a cost of just short of 
£500.
Mr S disputed these charges. He said the damage wasnt  present when he dropped the car 
off and he couldnt understand why it took VWFS three months  to have the car inspected. He 
also noted that the inspection report was dated in April 2018  and he couldnt understand why 
this was. He said hed been called  on several occasions by the inspectors to question where 
the car was and that these calls were made after April, so it was clear the car hadnt been 
inspected in April as the report suggested  it had.
VWFS didnt  think theyd done  anything wrong.  They said the car remained  Mr Ss 
responsibility until it was inspected and they explained that the calls Mr S had received were  
to arrange collection  of the car: the inspection had been completed earlier. They reviewed  
the damage that had been reported and thought that each refurbishment charge  was clearly 
applicable as they said they related  to damage that was outside of the fair wear  and tear 
industry guidance produced by the British vehicle Rental and leasing Association  (BVRLA).
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look. She didnt 
think any of the charges  should be levied. She had concerns about the reliability  of the 
inspection report as she noted, as Mr S had, that it was dated in April but there  were  several  
notes on VWFSs  call records to show  Mr S had been contacted  after this date to arrange  an 
inspection. She also noted that the inspection report hadnt  been signed by the inspector 
and thought this unusual  and she couldnt understand why, if the inspection had been  
completed in April, the car wasnt collected  for auction until two months later.  She reviewed 
the charges that had been made  and didnt  agree  that two of them  were  chargeable as she 
said they were within  the fair wear and tear guidelines. And overall, given the unreliability of 
the report and the disputed  charges, she thought it would be fair for VWFS to waive the 
excess charges in their entirety.
But VWFS disagreed. They asserted that the calls Mr S had received were to arrange 
collection and not inspection of the car and whilst they were prepared  to accept that a 
scratch to the right hand door was probably  not chargeable, they didnt agree that the other 
charges should  be waived.  So they asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
Ref: DRN65644362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think theres significant doubt  about the accuracy  of this inspection  and as a result  I think  
the fairest resolution would be to do what the investigator has suggested and waive all of the 
charges VWFS have  levied. I know this will disappoint VWFS but please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The contract Mr S signed with VWFS said that he would be responsible for any damage to 
or deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for establishing this are provided by the BVRLA and the inspection  
that was completed  by a third party, who Ill call Z, was made  to these standards. 
But the issue here is why there appears to have been such  a delay in that inspection  taking 
place. 
what was the inspection date?
Z was responsible for the inspection and the collection  of the vehicle. The inspection  is dated 
11 April 2018 but I can see from VWFSs  case management system logs that there are 
regular notes asking  Z for dates for the collection/inspection. The last of these is in early 
June: three  months  after Mr S dropped the car off at the dealers and two months after the 
inspection was supposedly completed.
Im not persuaded by VWFSs  explanation  of this. They say that these notes refer to 
collection only but they all discuss collection  and inspection. Its clear that the collectors (Z) 
were also the inspectors  so it wouldnt make sense for them to have inspected  in April only 
to return two months later to collect.
And even  if they did inspect in April theres not been a viable explanation about  why there 
was then a wait of two months before the car was taken to auction.
I think its much more  likely that these case management logs refer to arranging the 
inspection as well as the collection and I therefore think the investigator  was right to question 
the reliability of an inspection  report that may have been pre dated. If there are question 
marks about the date of the report that also brings  in to question  the reliability of the 
information in that report and for this reason I think it would be reasonable for VWFS to 
waive all of the charges  theyve  made.
Ref: DRN65644363were the charges reasonable?
I agree  that the scratches on the right hand door appear to be within  the industry guidelines. 
I dont think the pictures show  them to be greater  than 25mm and theyd need to be, to be 
chargeable.
The dent to the quarter panel  is also poorly evidenced and I think  its most likely its also 
within industry guidelines.
The remaining  damage, to the bumper, is clearly outside of those guidelines. The total 
charge equates to about £165 but in light of the question marks over the reliability of the 
inspection report,  I think it would be fairer for VWFS to waive  all of the charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and ask Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to waive all the refurbishment charges theyve attempted  to recover 
from Mr S in relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6564436