K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about Kindertons Ltd and their valuation  of his car after it was deemed  a 
write off following a road traffic accident. Mr H was also unhappy  with the way Kindertons 
managed the disposal  of his car.
Background
In late 2018, Mr H was involved in a road traffic  accident, Kindertons were  instructed to 
manage Mr Hs non-fault claim  against  the third partys insurer (TPI).
Kindertons instructed an independent  engineer  to inspect  Mr Hs car. They determined that 
the car was a total loss and suggested  a pre-accident value (PAV) of £12,000.00. But, they 
categorised the car as category S (structural damage) advising the car would be salvaged,  
repaired and then re-sold. The engineer advised salvage costs would total £2,160.00. So, 
Kindertons wrote to the TPI on 7 December 2018 requesting  them to pay Mr H a total 
amount of £9,840.00, explaining this was an interim  amount while  they waited for Mr H to 
accept the valuation.
Unfortunately, on 14 December, the TPI issued an interim PAV payment of £8,280.00 that 
was £1,560.00 less than what  Mr H was told hed receive. The TPI disputed the salvage 
amount, explaining they couldve received  a higher amount and wouldve taken the car had it 
been offered to them. Kindertons chased the TPI on a number of occasions over a period of 
months explaining theyd salvaged the car themselves as theyd had no response. But the 
TPI refused  to pay the additional PAV amount.
Mr H was unhappy that hed received less than hed agreed so he raised  a complaint. He 
explained hed been left out of pocket for a significant period of time through  no fault of his 
own and didnt feel this was fair. So, he wanted Kindertons to pay him the outstanding PAV 
amount.
Kindertons didnt agree.  They thought it was the TPI that were  causing the delay by 
disputing the salvage value so didnt think they were  at fault.  So, they didnt  offer anything 
further. Mr H was unhappy with this response  and thought Kindertons management of the 
disposal of his vehicle  had created the issue with the outstanding PAV amount. So, he 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He didnt think  it was fair for Mr H to 
be left without the outstanding PAV amount  that had been agreed. So, he thought  
Kindertons should  cover that amount  and continue to recoup  that loss with the third party. He 
also thought Kindertons should pay Mr H £150 to recognise the amount of time hed been 
left out of pocket.  
There was also a discussion around the actual  valuation of the car. Our investigator initially  
thought it had been valued unfairly but changed  his mind following further evidence 
Kindertons provided.  But, he did think it was unfair  for Kindertons to subtract  an amount for 
the condition of the car. As the engineer hadnt recorded any pre-accident damage  and had 
described the condition as good for its age, he thought Kindertons  should cover the 
outstanding amount to ensure Mr H received the full £12,377.00 PAV. 
Mr H agreed with this but Kindertons didnt respond. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
Ref: DRN63706492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the role the TPI has played  in the creation of this complaint. Im 
aware it is the TPI that has refused to pay the additional PAV amount and I dont think this is 
something Kindertons  were able to control. But, despite this, Id expect Kindertons  to act in 
the best interests of Mr H to ensure that he wasnt left unfairly  disadvantaged and in this 
situation, I dont  think they have.
Ive seen that Kindertons took a total of seven days between writing  to the TPI and taking the 
decision to salvage  Mr Hs car. They took this decision without receiving a response  from the 
TPI on how theyd like to proceed. Whilst I dont  think they couldve predicted the TPIs 
decision to offer a reduced PAV amount, I do think their decision  to salvage the vehicle so 
quickly has contributed  to the issues  they faced finalising the claim.
Ive also listened  to call recording  where  they explained that Mr H would be receiving a total 
PAV payment  of £9,840.00 plus the salvage  cost of £2,160.00. So, Id expect Kindertons  to 
ensure he received this amount in a reasonable time frame, whether or not they experienced 
issues with the TPI. I dont think its unreasonable to expect Kindertons to cover  this amount 
and then recoup  this from the TPI.
By not doing  so, Mr H has been left in financial difficulty; having  to replace his car without the 
full amount he was entitled. I think this wouldve inconvenienced Mr H. Ive seen hes had to 
chase Kindertons for updates on a number of occasions  and this will have  taken time and 
effort which wouldve added to this inconvenience.  So, I think this should be recognised  by 
Kindertons and I think a payment  of £150 is a fair offer to do this.
Ive then considered  the PAV of Mr Hs car. Its been  agreed that a fair valuation completed  
using our guidelines led to a valuation  amount  of £12,377.00. But, Kindertons  reduced this 
amount by £280 explaining there was pre-accident damage to the alloys and both the front 
and rear bumpers.  
Ive seen the engineers report which states  under the heading unrelated damage  that 
there was non advised, just general  wear and tear.  The report  also described Mr Hs car as 
in good condition for its age and type. As there was no mention of any unrelated damage in 
the engineers  report, I dont think its fair for Kindertons to then deduct  an amount from the 
PAV. For completeness,  Ive also examined the photos taken from the day of inspection and 
I cant see any photos to show  the damage  that Kindertons have noted. The only damage 
Im able to see to the tyres are on the side of the car that was impacted during  the collision. 
So, I dont think its far to determine  that this damage was present  before the accident.
Because of this, I think Kindertons should  pay Mr H the outstanding PAV amount based on 
the full PAV of £12,377.00 less the £10,440.00 hes already received.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Kindertons Limited and 
direct them to take the following actions:
Ref: DRN63706493Pay Mr H £150 to recognise the inconvenience hes experienced.
Pay Mr H the outstanding PAV amount hes yet to receive based on the full PAV 
valuation of £12,377.00.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370649