K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complained that Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd incorrectly advised him to buy 
additional security  for his motorcycle so hed be covered under his motorcycle  insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr B bought a new motorcycle after his was stolen. Be Wiser  (his broker) tried to put the 
new motorcycle on his policy but wasnt able to as it didnt meet the security requirements. 
Be Wiser called the insurer to ask what was needed. The insurer said the motorcycle 
needed some kind of security and told Be Wiser  to check on the list to see what  was 
required.
Be Wiser said it checked the list and told Mr B to fit the only security option that the insurers  
system would agree  to  an identification marker.  Mr B didnt want  to fit an identification 
marker. He said his previous motorcycle had been stolen despite having  one and he wanted 
to get something  that would mean his motorcycle was more secure. 
Be Wiser spoke to the insurer over the next couple of days  and the insurer confirmed Mr B 
needed this particular security device. Mr B had the device  fitted  on his motorcycle  but 
complained to Be Wiser about it. He wanted to know why his policy  documents didnt say he 
needed this. 
Be Wiser said it had checked the list and this particular device was the only one allowed. It 
said the insurer had also said this was needed and it wasnt able to override the insurers  
system. It also asked the insurer why the policy documents didnt show  what was needed. 
The insurer  told Be Wiser it didnt actually require an identification marker and that other  
types of security would  have been  acceptable.
Be Wiser didnt think this was its fault but waived the £47.29  administration  fee it had 
charged Mr B for adding the new motorcycle to his policy.  Mr B didnt think  this was enough  
and brought his complaint  to us. 
Our investigator recommended Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She said the insurer  told         
Be Wiser the motorcycle  needed  some  sort of security device but not that specific one. She 
thought Mr B had been forced  into buying a security device he didnt want  when  he would 
have bought a different one. She thought Be Wiser should refund Mr B the cost of the 
security device minus the administration  fee it had already  waived. She also thought  it 
should add interest  to this amount. 
Be Wiser disagreed. It said if the insurer hadnt given the incorrect advice after Mr B bought 
the security device he could have returned  it before having it fitted. Mr B said he didnt think  
he could have returned it as hed opened  the packaging when he received it. Be Wiser still 
didnt think it was responsible for giving Mr B the wrong advice and asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ref: DRN64576422Ive listened to the call where  the insurer told Be Wiser that Mr B needed some kind of 
security device and to look at its list to see which  would  be accepted. Be Wiser has provided 
some screenshots to show  other  types of security wouldnt be accepted. But Ive also seen 
an extensive list from the insurer of other types of security  measures.  And Be Wiser  hasnt 
shown it tried all of these. So on balance I think its likely other  types of device  would have 
been accepted. 
I accept the insurer  gave Be Wiser the wrong information in subsequent  calls and can also 
see it did its best to find out if Mr B could use a different security device. But by this time   
Mr B had already  bought the device Be Wiser advised. Be Wiser said Mr B didnt have the 
device fitted for a few days so could have  sent it back. Its unclear from the information  we 
have from the supplier whether he could have returned it after opening  the packaging but 
even if he could have  done hed have  had the inconvenience of returning it and the cost of 
postage. So I think its fair and reasonable for Be Wiser to compensate  him for buying 
something he didnt  need.
Ive also thought about whether Mr B has suffered a financial loss and considered that if he 
hadnt bought this particular device hed have needed to buy a different type anyway. 
However part of Mr Bs original concern with this device was that his other  motorcycle  was 
stolen despite  having one so he wanted  to buy a different type that would be more effective. 
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this particular  case is for Be Wiser to refund 
him for the device he bought so he can use the money  to buy the device he wanted. 
As Be Wiser has already  waived the £47.29 administration cost it was entitled to charge him 
as a result  of changing the motorcycle on his policy, I think it would be fair for it to deduct  this 
from the amount  it pays him of £69.45. That means  Be Wiser should pay Mr B £22.16.  Due 
to the time Mr Bs been without this money  Be Wiser  should add interest at 8% simple  per 
year from the date Mr B paid for the device to the date it makes  payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Be Wiser Insurance  Services Ltd 
to pay Mr B £22.16 plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date he paid for the device 
to the date it makes  payment1.
Be Wiser should  pay this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Bs accepted  my final decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Be Wiser considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6457642