K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited unfairly 
stopped his disability income  benefit under his Self-Assurance Term Personal (income 
protection) policy.
Any references to third parties or agents  involved in this claim will be referred  to as Royal 
London or Mr R respectively.
background
The background to the complaint was set out in my provisional findings and so I wont  repeat 
it here. A copy has been included with this final decision. 
In response to my provisional decision where I said I was planning  on not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint about  Royal  London, Mr R, in summary, said:
-It felt as though  hed been accused of mis-leading his GP. He said Royal  London 
should consider  the comprehensive medical  evidence available  and accept he 
continues to meet the medical requirements under the policy. He said Royal London 
had deliberately withheld information and subsequent opinions from the experts 
when it declined his claim;
-The expectation that he ought to have taken a salary or dividend isnt fair in his 
circumstances. Mr R felt Royal London ignored  the forensic accountants comments  
that he was entitled  to a share  of distributable  profits. And because the terms say 
earned income for a self-employed person means pre-tax  profit, Mr R felt this 
essentially meant he didnt have to take a salary or any dividends in order  to qualify 
for the benefit.  
Royal London had no further comments to make  and so its now for me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having also considered the additional  
information sent by Mr R, Im not persuaded I should depart from my provisional decision.
medical circumstances
I recognise Mr Rs comments  about  his health  and wider medical circumstances. One of the 
requirements under the policy is that Mr R must demonstrate that he is incapacitated due to 
illness, and unable to work because of that illness. I acknowledged in my provisional findings 
that theres a dispute here as Royal London  no longer considered Mr Rs illness to be one of 
sufficient severity to preclude him from work. It said the occupational  health report in 2017 
stated Mr R was capable  of return to work as there  was no medical  reason why he shouldnt.  
Mr R disputed this with a 2018 occupational health report   but Royal London said that 
opinion was based on Mr Rs self-reporting  rather than full consideration of all his medical 
records, which the 2017 report relied  on. It also said it would need to review further medical  
evidence should  Mr R claim  he was still incapacitated.
Ref: DRN69590602I wanted to acknowledge this and be clear  that should Royal  London want  to investigate this 
element of Mr Rs claim, then it is entitled  to do so in order  to verify it. This isnt unusual as 
insurers tend to review claims from time to time to make sure consumers still meet  the 
threshold of evidence needed to bring a valid claim. One way an insurer  may choose  to do 
this is through  referrals  to medical specialists. 
Because Royal London and Mr R were  not in agreement about the severity of his illness,  it 
suggested a further review  of his circumstances, which  included  gaining a further  medical 
opinion on his ability to work. 
Given what Ive just explained, Royal London is entitled to do this and so I dont think its 
being unreasonable here. 
financial circumstances
Mr R said that the very nature of his self-employment meant he had freedom to choose how 
and when earned income  is drawn  and spent.  He also said if its accepted  that he was self-
employed, then he didnt need to take any income or dividends.  This is because earned  
income is defined  as pre-tax profit within the policy terms. But Im not satisfied he meets  the 
policys terms. Ill explain why below.
Mr R is an individual, and T is a limited company. Mr R is also a director in T  so I accept 
his employment status was both as employed, and as self-employed.
But as mentioned in my provisional decision, he still needed  to meet  either the definition of 
earned income for an employed person, or a self-employed person. He didnt meet either. 
For completeness, the terms  relating to this for an employed person state:
gross taxable  earnings for PAYE assessment purposes in the 12 months  prior 
to the life assured becoming disabled.
Mr R didnt take any income or dividends  so he didnt meet the term. Mr R was a director 
of T, so as an employee he wouldve needed to satisfy these criteria.
And for a self-employed person,  the terms state:
the life assureds share of pre-tax profit (after deduction of trading expenses 
and adjustment  for capital allowances)  from their trade, profession or vocation for 
the purpose of schedule  D cases  I and II of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 
1988, in the 12 months  prior to the life assured  becoming disabled
Ive already established that T, is a limited company, and therefore  a separate legal  entity. 
Any funds held by it belong to T and not Mr R. Instead, T must pay Mr R a salary  or regular 
income and its that transaction that would then be subject to consideration by Royal 
London. Further, it said that Mr R also met the definition of self-employed and so it 
considered the claim with this in mind. 
Because the money held by the business belonged  to T and Mr R didnt take any dividends  
or receive  any income from it, theres effectively  nothing to indemnify  for the purposes  of 
Ref: DRN69590603Mr Rs claim.  This is also why it would be inappropriate  to consider Ts funds  as exclusively 
belonging to Mr R. 
Mr R suggested that Royal  London  had effectively  ignored comments  made by the forensic  
accountants about his pre-disability income. Mr R referred to an email  to evidence this, but 
Im not persuaded Royal London has ignored  the overall advice. The evidence  in its entirety 
suggests no further benefits should have been payable  after 2013. And, as Royal London 
stopped the claim  payments, Im satisfied it didnt overlook the advice provided by the 
forensic accountants.
Although Mr R didnt meet  the criteria of the policy, Royal London  initially went  beyond the 
policy terms by making  regular payments to him. This was more than Id have expected it to 
do for the reasons Ive explained and so when it realised Mr R didnt qualify, it stopped 
making the payments  which I thought was fair. Mr R has benefited  from the policy, even 
though there  wasnt any cover. Royal London said its not intending to recover these funds 
and so I think Mr R has benefited  considerably  given  he received money  he wasnt entitled 
to.  
As Ive said,  any issues Mr R may have about the sale of the policy hasnt been considered 
in my final decision for the reasons  I explained  in my provisional findings.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint so Im not recommending  that The Royal  London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  do anything further  in relation to this claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69590604[copy of provisional decision]
Complaint
Mr R has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited unfairly stopped  his 
disability income benefit under his Self-Assurance  Term  Personal (income  protection) policy.
Ref: DRN69590605Any references to third parties or agents involved in this claim will be referred  to as Royal  London or 
Mr R respectively.
Background
Mr R is self-employed  and had directorship over a handful of limited companies. This included T, a 
limited company which he used  to manage his tax affairs. Part of the funds  received by T was for the 
work Mr R carried out for the other limited companies.
Mr R was signed off from work in December 2011 due to symptoms of depression and severe  stress. 
He made a claim in early 2012. Whilst gathering information, Royal London  provisionally  accepted Mr 
Rs claim and started to pay the benefits under the policy.
Mr R said Royal London stopped paying his claim  without notice in July 2014. He said it did this 
unfairly because it had questions about his employment status. Mr R said hes still unwell and 
therefore unable  to work and so Royal London should reinstate his claim and payments.
Royal London  appointed forensic accountants  in early 2015. Following its investigations, Royal 
London told Mr R he wasnt entitled to any benefit and wanted a refund of the overpayments it had 
made. Mr R told Royal  London it had made a mistake because it hadnt considered his claim  against 
the policys definition of self-employed and so it should  reinstate the payments.
In April 2016  Royal London made an ex-gratia  decision to calculate his benefit using post tax profits  
and his actual shareholding in T. Mr R said Royal  London also deducted his investment income  in this 
calculation which reduced his benefit  to nil which  he felt was unfair.
Mr R said Royal London told him in January 2018 that it was able to reinstate his claim up to July 
2017. He said it also told him it would depart  from its previous ex-gratia  calculations, deduct any 
continuing income  and that his investment  income would be ignored.
But Royal London later stated that it was going to maintain its position regarding  the ex- gratia  
calculations, and that Mr R wasnt entitled to any benefit under the policy. Royal  London also decided  
it wouldnt ask Mr R to repay the overpayments, but it would consider it against any future successful  
claim.
Mr R didnt agree and appointed a firm of accountants to carry out an income review report. It said T 
was his personal management company  which  received  income that he would otherwise  have 
received directly. Its conclusions were  that T should be considered as if it was Mr R  and 
recommended Royal London assess the claim  using Ts turnover  as Mr Rs.
Royal London  disagreed and so Mr R referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint and said Royal London needed to treat Mr R as self-employed. She also explained this 
service couldnt calculate  the redress and a forensic accountant should  be appointed for this.
Royal London  said Mr R didnt  meet the terms of the policy and that when it realised,  it stopped 
making payments to him. In response to our investigator it said it had already treated  Mr R as self-
employed and that it had calculated some benefit,  despite Mr R not having  had a pre-incapacity 
income, which was one of the key requirements  under the terms.  It also asked the investigator 
whether she agreed  Mr R was no longer medically unfit to return to work based on a medical report  
from 2017.
Mr R was unhappy with Royal Londons response and provided further information  to the investigator.  
As there  were no agreements on how this complaint should be resolved,  the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
My provisional  findings
Ref: DRN69590606Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, Ill only refer to the information  Ive found  
relevant to Mr Rs complaint and the circumstances.
The relevant rules  and guidelines on insurance  claims  can be found in the Insurance Code of 
Business Sourcebook. Essentially the rules say the insurer must  act fairly and not decline a claim 
unreasonably. This is relevant to Mr Rs circumstances as I need to decide  whether  Royal Londons 
decision to end his benefit in the way it did was fair and reasonable.
Under the terms of the policy,  there were  two key requirements Mr R needed to meet  incapacity  and 
his financial circumstances related to his earned income.  Throughout the life of the claim Mr R 
provided Royal London  with medical evidence  in relation to his condition by way of expert reports.
Whilst initially, Royal London  accepted Mr R was medically unfit to work, it said the doctors report  
from 2017  successfully  challenged this as it said Mr R was well enough  return  to work. It also 
acknowledged there  was another report in 2018, by a different doctor, that gave a conflicting opinion. 
And so, it wanted to assess further evidence  from Mr Rs GP to better  understand the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Rs health and whether it needed to conduct  a further medical  assessment.
If there  was a need to assess  further medical evidence, then I dont think  its position here would be 
unreasonable. I say that because under  the terms of the policy, the insurer is entitled to validate  a 
potential claim  by requesting  relevant  medical information, or by arranging  independent  medical 
assessments to make sure the claimant  meets the terms of the policy. And so, Im not concerned by 
Royal Londons attempts  to gather further medical evidence.
Whilst I understand the medical  information is in dispute, the real crux of Mr Rs complaint  is whether 
he meets the financial requirements  described under the policy   as this is why his payments were  
stopped. So, Im not making a finding on whether Mr R currently  meets  the terms of the policy under  
medical grounds.
Employment status
Mr R provided confirmation from the HMRC that whilst he is employed as a director, he can also be 
treated as self-employed. Based on this evidence, I think its reasonable to consider him self-
employed for the purposes of this claim. Im further satisfied with this approach as the accounts  
submitted by Mr R also support that he is self-employed.
I understand Mr Rs employment status  isnt straightforward. However, he still needs  to meet the 
terms of his policy in order to receive  any benefit.  Ive looked  carefully at the relevant terms to decide 
whether he met the criteria.  In doing so, Ive found Mr Rs circumstances, against the definitions of 
earned income for an employed or self-employed individual, do not satisfy the terms of the policy. Ill 
explain why below.
Earned Income
The policy is designed to pay a maximum  of 50% the insureds pre-incapacity income.
When Mr R claimed on the policy, he told Royal London that he was employed as a director.  But his 
HMRC self-assessment showed he wasnt taking any PAYE salary, nor did he take any dividends 
from his shareholdings.  Whilst Mr R shared his HMRC statements to show he paid tax in 2012,  
neither his accounts, or his statements, show that hed received any income before  or after this. 
Typically, Id expect to see some form of income  through a regular wage as an employee of the 
business, or perhaps in the form of dividends  as a shareholder.
But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr R was receiving any income through  this company. The 
reason this is important is because in order to meet the terms of the policy  and bring  a successful 
Ref: DRN69590607claim, Mr R needs to successfully demonstrate this. The relevant part of the policy for employed 
individuals defines earned income as;
gross taxable earnings for PAYE assessment  purposes in the 12 months prior to the life assured  
becoming disabled.
The terms  go on to explain  this can include  dividends received  from a private limited company  
(representing the insureds  share). But as Mr R didnt  take any income or dividends as a director or a 
shareholder of T, Im satisfied he doesnt meet the terms and therefore I think Royal  London ceased 
payments under the claim fairly.
 
Mr Rs response to this is that hes self-employed, but he has an arrangement for tax purposes,  which  
means he pays all income from his other businesses to T. Whilst I understand Mr Rs reasons for 
doing so, I still disagree that Royal London should assess  his claim any differently.
I say this because for self-employed individuals, the Earned Income definition states:
the life assureds share of pre-tax  profit (after  deduction of trading expenses  and adjustment for 
capital allowances) from their trade, profession or vocation for the purpose of schedule D cases  I and 
II of the Income and Corporation  Taxes  Act 1988, in the 12 months prior to the life assured  becoming 
disabled
Mr R said Ts profits are essentially  his income, but he doesnt take a regular salary for tax efficiency 
purposes. I should make  clear that Im not making  a finding on Mr Rs tax affairs, or Ts for that matter  
as its not something this service would involve  itself in. But for the purposes of this decision, I dont 
think its appropriate  for Royal London to consider Ts funds as Mr Rs income for the reasons Ive 
explained. The policy terms are clear in that to bring a successful  claim under the self-employed 
section of the policy,  there needs to be a wage  paid for Royal London to assess  against an Earned 
Income, or dividends.
Im aware Mr R stated  the terms of the policy  were onerous against his unique circumstances. That is 
a matter about the sale of the policy  which Mr R hasnt specifically raised  with the seller.  So, I make  
no finding on that.
My provisional  decision
Im currently  not upholding  Mr Rs complaint so Im recommending that The Royal London  Mutual  
Insurance Society Limited dont do anything further in relation to this claim.
I now invite  both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make,  in writing by 19 
January 2020, after which I will issue my final decision.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6959060