K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about National House-Building Councils handling  of a claim under his 
buildings warranty.
background
Mr A has a Buildmark buildings warranty with NHBC to cover his home,  which he bought in 
February 2016.
Mr A complained about a number of issues with the standard of the building  work on his 
property. The builder  wasnt able to resolve all of these, so Mr A asked NHBC to intervene.
In line with the terms of the warranty, NHBC inspected the property and produced a 
resolution report in early 2017.  
This said that some of the issues Mr A had raised didnt indicate a failure by the builder to 
meet the relevant standards. Others did  and NHBC asked the builder to undertake further  
work to put things  right.
Mr A was unhappy with the outcome of this process  and made a complaint to NHBC. They 
didnt uphold  his complaint, so Mr A brought it to us.
He had two main concerns.
First, there is an enclosed  space in his house which had been described on the original 
plans (and in the marketing material) as a laundry  room. Mr A pointed out this had no 
ventilation and so was completely unsuited to use as a laundry room,  despite the fact it was 
plumbed in to take a washing machine. 
NHBCs report said the space was in fact a cupboard, had been built as such and met the 
required standards.
Second, Mr A said his French  doors  didnt fit the space that had been  left for them in the wall 
of the building. He said the builders had botched a solution to this by filing in the gaps  on 
either side of the doors with wooden battens which werent suited to the purpose.
NHBCs report concluded that this was a problem. They asked  the builder to return to the 
property and replace  the battens with more durable and suitable wood. Mr A was unhappy 
with this and asked the builders to brick in the gaps.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think NHBC had done  anything  
wrong.
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64976422First of all, the situation has moved  on since Mr A complained to NHBC.  As I understand it, 
the builder agreed  to Mr As request to replace the wooden  surrounds to Mr As French  
doors with brick - and carried out the work.
However, Mr A says the standard of that work  is still unsatisfactory. Amongst other  things, 
he says the brickwork has been  built directly off the outside paving, has no damp-proof 
course and has blocked  removal of the drainage grill at the foot of the doors.
Its also important to understand  the nature of the warranty Mr A has because  this has a 
bearing on what we can and cant consider when we look at his complaint.
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook 
set out what complaints we have the power  to consider. DISP 2.3.1 says we can look into a 
complaint if its about a regulated activity.  
Providing insurance is a regulated activity. But not all parts of the NHBC warranty  can be 
classed as insurance.
The warranty contract makes it clear that in the first two years  of cover the builder is 
responsible for dealing  with any problems with the property. At this stage  NHBC gets 
involved only if things cant be resolved between the customer and the builder. 
Importantly, what NHBC  offer at this stage is a mediation service only.  It is not a regulated 
insurance activity. The warranty  states  that NHBCs responsibilities as an insurer dont begin 
until year three.
So, if NHBC provides a resolution service within the first two years  as it did in Mr As case 
 we usually (see below for the exception  to this rule) have no power to intervene.  And if, as 
part of the resolution service,  NHBC inspect the property and conclude that the builder 
complied with their technical requirements, we cant question or comment on that decision.
In terms of Mr As complaint, NHBC carried out an inspection as part of the resolution 
service. They concluded that the issues Mr A identified with the cupboard / laundry room 
didnt indicate  a failure by the builder  to meet the relevant requirements. And its not for us to 
comment on that. Its not something  we can look into.
The situation  is different in terms of the French doors. We can look into complaints 
concerning the resolution service if NHBCs report says the builder did fail to comply with 
their requirements and the builder then fails to carry out the rectification works requested by 
NHBC. 
At this point, according  to the warranty  contract,  NHBC take over responsibility for the 
rectifications. And so, importantly in terms of our services involvement,  the insurance  
element of the warranty kicks  in.
Its entirely understandable  that NHBC felt their obligations under the warranty had been met 
when they asked the builder to deal with the problem with Mr As French doors. 
However, its now become apparent that the builder  hasnt rectified the problem  at all  at 
least according to Mr A, who says the work carried out on the doors is unsatisfactory.
Ref: DRN64976423If Mr A is right, then the terms of the warranty suggest NHBC should take over the 
rectification works. And the insurance part of the contract kicks in.
So, Im satisfied NHBC should now arrange  to inspect  Mr As French  doors to determine 
what further rectification  work is necessary. And I expect NHBC to take responsibility for 
getting any such work carried out.
Ive spoken to NHBC about this and theyre happy  to contact Mr A to make arrangements  to 
carry out the inspection at his convenience.
I suspect Mr A will remain unhappy that were not able to look into his complaint about  the 
laundry room / cupboard. I understand his frustration, particularly since he says his attempts 
to raise complaints  with other bodies about  this issue  have come to a dead end. 
However, I hope weve managed to explain our specific role to Mr A. And I hope he at least  
understands why we cant look into this aspect of his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr As complaint in part. 
National House-Building Council must make arrangements with Mr A to inspect  his French  
doors to determine  what further rectification works  are required.
But Im satisfied we cant  look into Mr As complaint about the laundry room  / cupboard in his 
home. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6497642