K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited  (trading as IWEB Share Dealing)  
misrepresented information about the payment date of a dividend on the hard-copy  
statement for his account. 
background
Mr C had a holding of Fund X in an IWeb on-line  Stocks and Shares ISA. His complaint 
relates specifically to an associated dividend of just over £108  paid to the account at the end 
of 2018. The dividend had a payment date of 31 December  2018 and reached Mr Cs 
account on 4 January  2019. 
Mr Cs concern is that IWEB showed  the dividend date differently on the online account (as 4 
January 2019) to the date shown on the hard copy,  PDF quarterly statement (31 December 
2018 date). 
He made  a complaint to IWeb but it didnt uphold it. IWeb confirmed that 31 December 2018 
was the dividend payment date and also the date on which the payment process 
commenced. This took a few days  there was a bank holiday in between  and was in 
Mr Cs account on 4 January 2019. 
IWeb said that all dividends where shown on the hard-copy quarterly statements as paid on 
the payment date.  This was the official date of payment used for tax reporting  purposes and 
was also the date shown on the consolidated  tax voucher. Its on-line service also provided a 
dividend history feature  that showed the date when the money was actually received into the 
account, which might be later  as in this case  depending on how long the payment 
process took. 
In short,  IWeb was satisfied that the information  supplied to Mr C was correct and the 
manner in which it was displayed was a matter  for its commercial discretion. IWeb  didnt feel 
that Mr C had been impacted in any way or suffered any loss. 
The complaint was then referred  to this service  where our investigator reached broadly the 
same conclusion as IWeb. 
Mr C remained  unhappy. He responded in detail, much of which  focussed  on the service 
provided by the investigator  matters which I wont consider  here. But he also said that he 
felt, in brief, that any statement that represented an account should accurately reflect all 
transactions. And that IWebs hard-copy  PDF statement showed the wrong  transaction date 
 the date that mattered was the date payment was credited to the account. Mr C also felt 
that the dividend should be credited  the next day following the payment date,  not with the 
delay experienced with IWeb. 
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67293442While I note Mr Cs clear level of dissatisfaction with the matter,  I dont feel able to conclude  
that IWeb has done anything  wrong. 
I appreciate hed like the format of the statements to be different and reflect  the credit date 
rather than the dividend payment date. But Im satisfied the way in which IWeb chooses to 
represent the information is reasonable and transparent and there  is no reason why 
presenting the information as it does should cause any harm or financial loss to account 
holders. I note that Mr C has not suggested  that hes suffered any sort of financial loss; 
rather hes seeking an amended statement, apology and a goodwill payment.
There is no question that 31 December 2018 was the dividend payment date for the fund in 
question. And there is also no question that the sum of just over £108 reached  Mr Cs 
account on 4 January  2019. There was never any attempt to indicate otherwise by IWeb, 
and Mr C has, as far as I can see, been  made  aware of both these relevant dates at the 
relevant times. 
The payment process took a few days,  but nothing  that I can see would constitute  an 
unreasonable delay. And the time taken was in accordance with IWebs terms that say that 
payments will be made  promptly. If the process was slightly longer than normal it should  be 
remembered that there was a bank holiday immediately following the dividend payment date, 
which willve had an impact.
Mr C says that IWeb is out of step with other brokers. This may well be, but it doesnt mean 
that what it chooses to do is necessarily  wrong. It may be that hes able to find a service that 
operates more  in line with how he would like information presented to him. And in this 
respect I note that IWeb  no longer  provides  an account for him. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  that IWeb acted  correctly and fairly,  and did not cause any material  
harm to Mr C. As such, I find there are no grounds  on which to direct it to apologise  or make 
any sort of goodwill payment to him. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6729344