K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that cars that were supplied to him under hire purchase  agreements with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  werent of satisfactory quality, that the agreements 
were mis-sold to him and about other  issues relating to the cars and the agreements.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he signed in December 2017.  The car was about seven years old, had been 
driven for nearly 54,000  miles and had a cash price  of £10,500.  Mr W complained  to the 
dealer about some  issues with the car and it agreed  that he could return  the car. 
Another used  car was then supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with BMW 
Financial Services that he signed in February 2018. That car was more  than six years old, 
had been driven  for over 86,000 miles and had a cash price of £12,419.51. Mr W also 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BMW  Financial Services that month for 
£3,586.01 which was the amount required to settle the first agreement.  
Mr W has had issues with the second  car so he returned it to the dealer for repairs  but its 
since been subject  to a safety recall and has failed its MOT. Mr W says that the car isnt of 
satisfactory quality and he should  be able to reject it. He complained  to BMW  Financial 
Services but wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She went through  in 
detail each of the issues that Mr W had raised  and she said that she wouldnt  be asking 
BMW Financial Services to allow him to reject the second car as she hadnt been able to find 
that it wasnt fit for purpose  or of satisfactory quality at the time of sale.  So she concluded 
that she wouldnt be asking BMW  Financial  Services to pay any compensation or take any 
further action  as she hadnt found any fault with the service that he received.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and has provided a statement from his mother in support of his complaint. He says,  in 
summary and amongst  other things,  that:
neither he nor his mother was allowed to test drive the cars;
the dealer  wasnt honest with him about  the new battery and wheels and the repair  to 
the breather pipe on the second  car;
hes started court proceedings against the dealer  for mis-selling and misrepresenting  
the cars to him;
he has significant debts and this situation  is making his personal difficulties worse;
the second cars faulty, failed its MOT test and needs repairs  costing £3,391 so isnt 
worth repairing;  and
the dealers provided him with a hire car but is now saying  that hes going to be 
charged for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first car was supplied  to Mr W under the December 2017 hire purchase agreement. 
Mr W signed that agreement and agreed to be bound by the terms that it contained.
Ref: DRN61678612BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the cars, was responsible  for ensuring  that the 
cars were of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, 
and mileage of the cars and the price that was paid for them. Satisfactory quality  also covers 
durability which means  that the components within the cars must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
The first car that was supplied to Mr W was about  seven years  old, had been driven for 
nearly 54,000  miles and had a cash price of £10,500. He says that neither he nor his mother  
was allowed to test drive the car. But it was his decision  for the car to be supplied to him in 
the condition in which he saw it and to enter  into the agreement. He had some issues  with 
the car between then and February 2018 which were investigated by the dealer and it says 
that any faults that were found  were  repaired. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Mr W because of those issues. The dealer has provided  
evidence to show that it did some work on the car before it was supplied to Mr W - including  
replacing tyres, servicing brakes, disks  and pads, and replacing some other parts and the 
car passed an MOT test. 
BMW Financial Services agreed that Mr W could return  the car and that another  car would 
be supplied  to him. The sales invoice for the second  car shows  that the part-exchange value 
of the first car was £9,943.36 and that the amount required to settle the December 2017 
agreement was £13,779.37  - so Mr W owed it £3,836.01. He made a payment of £250 which  
left £3,586.01 owed by him. 
So he entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BMW  Financial Services under which  it 
lent that amount  to him, repayable over 49 months by monthly payments of £86.63.  The 
agreement shows that the charge for credit was £658.86 and that the interest rate was 8.7%. 
Mr W signed the loan agreement and agreed  to be bound by its terms. So I consider that he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that he was paying  interest  on the loan,  that the 
£250 that hed paid had been used to reduce  the amount that he owed and that the first car 
had been used as a part-exchange for the second car. 
The second  car was supplied to Mr W under the February 2018 hire purchase agreement.  
Mr W signed that agreement and agreed to be bound by the terms that it contained. It was 
clearly stated in that agreement that the duration  was 49 months, that he was required to 
make 48 monthly payments of £246.97 and that there was an optional final payment of 
£4,151.33. So I consider  that Mr W knew, or ought  reasonably to have known,  that the 
agreement would also be for 49 months.
The second  car that was supplied to him was more than six years old, had been  driven  for 
over 86,000 miles and had a cash price of £12,419.51. He again says that neither he nor his 
mother was allowed to test drive the car. But it was his decision for the car to be supplied  to 
him in the condition  in which he saw it and to enter into the agreement.  
Mr W also says that he asked  to cancel his agreement within the first 14 days. He did have  a 
right to withdraw from the hire purchase  agreement within 14 days by notice to BMW 
Financial Services. BMW Financial Services account notes have  no record of Mr W asking 
to withdraw from the agreement and Ive seen no other evidence to show that he took any 
action to withdraw from the agreement.
Ref: DRN61678613Mr W says that he shouldnt  have  been  supplied with a car of this age and mileage under a 
hire purchase agreement.  But I dont consider that theres any such limitation and that its for 
the credit  provider to decide whether or not it wants to provide  credit for a car.
The dealer  has provided evidence to show that it checked the second  car in February 2018 
before it was supplied  to Mr W and that it replaced  all four tyres, serviced the car and it 
passed an MOT test. Mr W returned the car to the dealer in September  2018 because  of an 
issue with the coolant pipe  which was replaced.  That was about seven months after the 
car had been  supplied  to Mr W and its mileage was recorded as 95,103 miles  so in that 
time the car had been driven for more than 8,600  miles.
Mr W returned the car to the dealer again in November 2018 because  he said that there  was 
a fault with some of the lights, it was feeling sluggish, its petrol consumption had increased 
and there  was a burning smell.  The dealer replaced  some bulbs, topped  up the oil, checked 
for leaks and carried out some other  checks.  
The dealer  did find some masking  tape on a breather pipe which  it said could be the cause 
of the burning  smell  and it said that the pipe needed to be replaced. It also said that the 
tape wouldnt have  been on the pipe when the car was supplied  to Mr W because  it wouldve 
been noticed when work  was done  on the car. Mr W had been able to use the car for seven 
months and to drive  more  than 8,600 miles in it. And Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that there was masking tape on the pipe when the car was supplied to 
Mr W  and even if there  had been, Im not persuaded that the masking tape would be 
enough to cause the car to not have been of satisfactory quality at that time.
The dealers  checks also identified that the cars battery needed to be replaced and that 
there were issues with two of the cars wheels  one of which had buckled and one of which  
had cracked. And in January  2019 Mr W received  a safety recall  letter  from the manufacturer 
asking him to contact  a dealer because  of issues with the exhaust gas recirculation system. 
The letter listed  symptoms that could be experienced  including that the low engine coolant 
warning light could  be displayed. The second car had had a coolant  issue in September 
2018  but Im not persuaded that coolant issues or the safety recall are enough to show  that 
it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W.
There have been  further issues with the second  car and it failed an MOT  test in March 2019  
because of a cracked  wheel   which the dealer said would cost £500  plus VAT to replace. 
And the dealer says that the work thats  required on the car (including the replacement 
wheel) will cost £3,391. And Mr W says that the second cars had punctures and that hes 
had to replace  bulbs.  But that doesnt mean that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when  it 
was supplied to Mr W. I sympathise with him for the issues that hes had with the car. But it 
was supplied to him in February 2018  and Ive seen no evidence  to show  that there were 
any faults with it until seven months  later  and in that time he was able to use the car to 
drive more than 8,600 miles. Im not persuaded that hed have been able to do so if the car 
hadnt been of satisfactory  quality at that time  taking into account that the second  car was 
then more than six years old and had been driven  for over 86,000 miles.
The dealer  has provided Mr W with hire car  but it asked  him to return  the hire car and said 
that it would  be charging him for it. Thats  a matter between Mr W and the dealer  and isnt 
something for which BMW Financial Services is responsible. So Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any action concerning  the hire car.
Ref: DRN61678614The dealer  has written Mr Ws name  incorrectly on a vehicle registration document. I can 
understand why that has caused distress  and inconvenience to Mr W. But thats  something 
for which the dealer is responsible and Im not persuaded  that BMW Financial Services has 
any liability  for it. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any 
action concerning the registration document. Mr W says that hes started  court proceedings 
against the dealer for mis-selling the two cars to him. But that doesnt mean that the cars 
were mis-sold to him or that they werent  of satisfactory  when they were supplied  to him.
I sympathise with Mr W for the financial, medical  and other issues that hes experiencing. 
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that either of the cars wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. Nor am I persuaded that theres enough  
evidence to show that either of the hire purchase  agreements or the fixed  sum loan 
agreement was mis-sold to him. And Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that BMW  Financial  Services  has acted  incorrectly in its dealings with Mr W. So I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require  it to allow  Mr W 
to reject the second  car, to pay him any compensation  or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
Mr W says that he now has substantial debts.  If hes unable to make  the payments  that are 
due for the second car, I suggest that he contacts BMW Financial Services to see if a 
reduced repayment arrangement can be agreed. And its required to respond to any financial 
difficulties that Mr W is experiencing positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6167861