K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Uncle  
Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck). Mr W says Uncle Buck  lent to him irresponsibly because  it 
didnt carry our proper  affordability  checks.
background
We now know that Mr W took 4 loans, between May 2015 and May 2016, as follows:
Loan Sequence Amount Repayment Type
1.22/05/2105 £100 1 x instalment
2.15/07/2015 £200 3 x monthly instalments
3.10/10/2015 £300 3 x monthly instalments
4.24/05/2016 £200 3 x monthly instalments
One of our adjudicators has already said they thought the complaint in relation to loans 3 
and 4 should be upheld. Uncle Buck didnt agree with the adjudicator  and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ws 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr W could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks  ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN66765472the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Uncle  Buck was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loan, not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr W 
could sustainably make  his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Mr W, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out 
credit checks to assess his creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing  to.  
Ive looked very carefully at everything Uncle Buck has sent to us. At the time that loans 1 
and 2 were applied for, both were relatively small sums when set against both what Mr W 
said he earned and his other monthly commitments. I accept that Mr W was already 
indebted to other short-term loan providers. However, theres  no clear record of the type or 
depth of credit checks that were carried out at that time. Given what Ive said above, about 
the length of the lending relationship at that time,  I dont think its clear enough that what  
Uncle Buck  would have seen  either suggested loans 1 and 2 were unaffordable or that the 
information on the check(s) it carried out substantially  undermined  the outgoings Mr W had 
himself declared. So Im afraid I dont agree that Uncle Buck  knew  its lending in this case 
was unsustainable  for Mr W. I therefore  dont  uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
I went on to consider loan 3 which  was a few months later. I note that by this stage, the 
checks carried out by Uncle  Buck do appear to have  suggested that other  short-term  loans 
were outstanding at the time.  Our experience of short-term lending  tells us that consumers 
who have difficulty managing their money  are less likely  to be able to sustainably repay a 
loan. For Mr Ws situation, Ive considered what Uncle  Buck would have most likely seen 
from its checks in relation to loan 3. 
Ive thought about whether it would  have been  obvious enough  that Mr W was having 
difficulties in managing his money. And I think that having significant amounts of outstanding 
short-term loans  in this case there were three such loans outstanding  would  have shown 
that Mr W was having financial trouble. With this information, resulting from its own checks, I 
dont I think Uncle Buck ought  to have lent him the money for the loan 3. I dont think  it was 
responsible to do so.
For loan 4, Ive taken into account  that there was a break of a few months since  Mr Ws 
previous loan. Nevertheless, Uncle Buck  should  have already  known  of the substantial 
financial difficulties Mr W was probably having in managing his money and I think the checks  
Ref: DRN66765473it should have  carried out ought  to have been more proportionate, and therefore more 
comprehensive. This is because of what  Uncle Buck already knew about Mr Ws borrowing  
history. I can see Mr Ws bank statements,  for example, continued to show  he was having 
problems managing his money  throughout 2016. So, I think any proportionate  assessment of 
his financial situation  would have shown that he shouldnt have been given loan 4 either. I 
dont think it was responsible to do so.
In summary,  Uncle Buck  shouldnt have lent him the money for either loans 3 or 4 and thats  
why Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr W, Uncle Buck should:
A.refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 3 and 4;
B.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
C.Pay Mr W the total of A plus B. (If, after reworking loans 3 or 4 Mr W still has an 
outstanding principle sum then Uncle Buck can use the refund to offset this balance.  
If there  is any refund left over then this should  be paid directly to Mr W);
D.Remove any adverse  information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Ws credit  file in 
relation to both these  loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint  in relation to loans 3 and 4 and I direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, 
trading as it was as Uncle Buck,  to put things  right for Mr W as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6676547