K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr T has said he 
has nothing further  to add. Provident has said that it accepts my provisional decision. And 
the lender has confirmed  that Mr T was given  a further loan in January 2019, after he had 
made his original complaint  I will refer to that as loan 7. Satsuma has offered to refund the 
interest that Mr T paid on that loan too in line with our normal approach  if we had upheld a 
complaint about  that loan. So I intend to include that loan in my final decision.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that Mr T has told us he has 
nothing further  to add, and that Satsuma has accepted my provisional findings, I see no 
reason to alter the conclusions I previously reached.
It follows that I dont think Satsuma should have  agreed to give Mr T loan 6. Satsuma needs  
to pay Mr T some  compensation in relation to that loan, and to pay the compensation it has 
offered in relation to loan 7.
putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to give Mr T the loan that he took on 
8 August 2018  (loan 6). And Satsuma  has agreed to pay compensation in relation to the loan 
it gave Mr T in January  2019 (loan  7). So Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr T on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken by Mr T means any information recorded about loans 6 and 7 
is adverse. So all entries about  those loans should be removed from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ts complaint and direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Ref: DRN62767122Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62767123EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr T was given six loans by Satsuma between March 2017 and August  2018.  Each of the loans  was 
repayable in monthly  instalments over periods ranging from six to twelve months.  At times Mr T had 
up to three  loans open  at the same time. Mr T successfully repaid  his first four loans but a balance 
remained outstanding  on the last two loans  when he made his complaint. A summary of Mr Ts 
borrowing from Satsuma  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Agreed 
Term
1 02/03/2017 02/10/2017 £   1,000 7 Months
2 13/06/2017 06/01/2018 £      400 6 Months
3 10/11/2017 03/09/2018 £      800 9 Months
4 23/01/2018 01/08/2018 £      500 6 Months
5 23/04/2018 - £      400 9 Months
6 08/08/2018 - £   1,200 12 Months
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Satsuma  had been 
wrong to give the first four loans to Mr T. But he didnt  think  the last two loans should  have been 
agreed. So he asked  Satsuma to pay Mr T some compensation.  Satsuma  didnt agree  with that 
assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr T could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN62767124the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether 
Mr T could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Satsuma did a number of checks before it lent to Mr T. It asked him for details of his income and his 
normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies about other credit repayments 
that Mr T would need  to make over the coming months. And it then used this information  to calculate 
how much  disposable income Mr T had left over each  month. Satsuma  also used the credit reference 
agency checks  to gather some more  information about Mr Ts financial situation  at that time.
The credit  checks that Satsuma did failed to show any information that might have suggested Mr T 
was having problems managing his money. The checks didnt show any other concerning information 
such as a reliance on other short term loans, or a significant  number of delinquent or defaulted 
accounts. 
I can see that Mr T had defaulted on a bank account shortly before  he took loan 2. But that default  
doesnt appear to have shown on Satsumas credit check. Generally, the information  a consumer 
might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might  be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender might  only see a small  portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain  any differences between  the 
information provided  by Satsumas credit check  and the information seen by Mr T in his credit report.
The repayments that Mr T had agreed to make on his first four loans were relatively modest 
compared to the income that hed declared  to Satsuma.  And the repayments appeared to be easily 
affordable. So given these  repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, and his borrowing  history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Satsuma to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable before  agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr T asked for loan 5, that Satsuma  should have realised  that it couldnt  safely  
rely on the information  he was providing  about his finances. I think it should  have taken  steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Ts true financial  position. Ive looked at copies of Mr Ts bank 
statements to see what better checks would have shown Satsuma. I can see that he took another  
short term loan on the same day as he took loan 6 from Satsuma. But I think its unlikely that better 
checks would have allowed Satsuma to discover  this loan  and in fact its entirely possible that the 
loan was taken out after his fifth loan from Satsuma.  So on balance I dont think better checks would 
have suggested to Satsuma  that Mr T was facing problems managing his money.
Ref: DRN62767125But looking  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr T I think  by loan 6 the lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Satsuma should have realised that it shouldnt provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
By the time Mr T asked for loan 6 hed been  borrowing  from Satsuma for a lengthy period and 
he wasnt  making  any inroads to the amount he owed the lender. This was now his sixth loan 
in around 15 months. And Loan 6 was by far the largest loan hed taken  to date. 
When Mr T took loan six he already had two other loans outstanding  with Satsuma. I think it 
should have been clear  by now that Mr T was facing problems managing  his money, and was 
most likely  needing  to borrow again to fill the hole that repaying previous loans  was leaving in 
his finances.
I think  that Mr T lost out because  Satsuma  provided loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to continue  
to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans  Mr T had borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications on 
his ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost 
loans.
So I dont currently think Satsuma should have agreed to give Mr T loan 6. Satsuma  needs to pay 
Mr T some compensation.
Ref: DRN6276712