K820x#14complaint
Mr L on behalf of Mr and Mrs S has complained  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has 
wrongly declined  a claim under their buildings insurance policy  for damage  to underground 
pipes.
background
Mr and Mrs Ss property  has a foul drainage system  consisting of a septic tank which  
discharges into a soakaway  in a drainage field.  This includes  a system of pipes specially 
designed to allow the waste liquids to be dispersed safely  underground.
Mr and Mrs S arranged  for a drainage company to look at the system as the toilets  and 
drains were  overflowing with sewage. The company suspected that the drainage  field had 
failed. It said after the septic tank had been emptied, the water level in the outlet pipe 
indicated that something was stopping the waste from flowing out into the drainage field.  It 
recommended that a test be carried out to assess whether it was feasible to install  a new 
drainage field.  It said if the ground  wasnt suitable  for a new drainage field, then the only 
other option was to replace the septic tank with a sewage treatment plant and run a pipe to a 
local watercourse.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to UKI for accidental damage. It appointed another drainage  
company to investigate. That company reported that the soakaway  in the field had failed. It 
said soakaways have  a limited lifespan  and the drainage field had gradually  come to the end 
of its useable life. It said there was no evidence of accidental damage  to the underground 
pipes. So UKI declined the claim.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Mr and Mrs Ss policy covers them for physical  damage to underground drains, pipes, 
cables and tanks. It doesnt cover Any damage  caused gradually that you ought to have 
been aware of and that it was reasonable for you to have prevented.
In the first instance,  its for Mr and Mrs S to show its more likely than not that theres been 
physical damage  to their underground pipe. If this is shown, UKI must  settle  the claim, 
unless it can show that its excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has pointed out that in this service  when  we think  about  the 
meaning of damage  we bear in mind  that it doesnt  just mean physical damage.  Damage 
can also be a loss of function, that is something that no longer performs  the task it was 
supposed to. So, for example, a drain pipe can be functionally damaged if its blocked and 
water is unable to flow through it  even  if theres no physical damage  to the pipe thats  
causing the blockage.
I agree  with that but in this case the policy refers to physical damage as opposed  to just 
damage. It seems to me that if UKI had wanted to cover any type of damage  then the 
policy terms wouldnt have specified  physical. I think in this context physical  means 
damage that can be perceived through the senses. If a pipe isnt allowing water to flow 
through it properly  but theres no sign of it being  cracked or broken in any way, I dont class 
that as physical damage.
Ref: DRN67659932I dont think the report  carried out on behalf  of UKI shows  evidence of any physical damage 
to the outlet pipe.  And having considered the report carried out on behalf  of Mr and Mrs S, 
I dont find that it concludes theres any physical damage to the pipe either. It refers to the 
fact that the pipe was holding water and described this as an irregularity.  Both drainage 
companies appear to agree that the soakaway  had failed. As the drainage field was 
saturated with pools  of water, it wasnt allowing waste  water to flow out of the outlet  pipe. 
I think its reasonable to assume that if the problem with the soakaway/drainage field were  
fixed, the waste water would once again  flow out of the outlet  pipe without any problem. So 
I think what is seen in this case is the result  of damage but that damage isnt actually 
physical damage.
Having considered the reports and the policy terms and conditions, I dont find UKI has 
unfairly declined  Mr and Mrs Ss claim for damage to their underground pipe.
Mr L provided an extract from Mr and Mrs Ss policy which referred  to accidental damage to 
pipes being covered as opposed  to physical  damage.
UKI explained that the policy wording had changed  in 2016. It said information about this 
change had been given to Mr and Mrs S before the 2017 renewal. Mr S said he didnt recall 
receiving notice of this change. UKI said it couldnt produce anther copy of the 2017 renewal 
letter for system reasons. But it sent a screen  shot indicating that renewal documents  had 
been sent to Mr and Mrs S on 6 January 2017.
Mr L also asked me to consider whether the damage would be covered  under the flood 
section of the policy bearing in mind that the ground outside the property was waterlogged. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has commented on my interpretation of physical damage  in the context 
of this claim,  I see no reason to change it.
The next question  is whether UKI did enough  to bring this change to Mr and Mrs Ss 
attention. Having looked at the 2016 Important information leaflet I think it is sufficiently 
clear. It said that UKI was making some  changes to the policy  and on the first page the new 
wording was set out. 
I cant be completely sure that Mr and Mrs S received this notice but I think its more likely  
than not that they did. Thats because the policy was renewed shortly  after and Id have  
expected Mr and Mrs S to have  queried  this if they hadnt received anything beforehand.  
UKIs system was set up to include the important  information leaflet with the invitation to 
renew the policy and I think  its unlikely that a glitch in the system would have occurred to 
prevent this. Mr S may not have paid much attention to this particular change because at 
that time he wasnt aware that hed be making  a claim under this part of the policy.
So I remain  of the opinion that UKI didnt treat Mr and Mrs S unfairly in declining  their claim 
for damage  to their underground pipe. 
Mr L also asked me to consider whether the damage would be covered  under the flood 
section of the policy bearing in mind that the ground outside the property was waterlogged. 
Ref: DRN67659933This doesnt appear to have been raised previously or considered by UKI but if the water-
logged drainage field could be classed as a flood, then I think  its likely UKI would seek to 
apply the exclusion  for damage caused  gradually  and/or damage which  has occurred as a 
result of natural  and inevitable events. Given the soakaway would have failed over a period 
of time and soakaways  do have a limited lifespan, (not because the flood water gathered 
gradually), I think wed say that was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6765993