K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1995 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr D and Ms H say Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) trading as Halifax  mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Ms Hs case.
The policy covered Mr D only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time the 
policy was taken when  deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr D and Ms H aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding the policy to their mortgage.  Mr D and Ms H have told us that they werent 
aware the PPI had been added to their mortgage.  I cant be certain what was said at the time 
the PPI was sold, and there is limited information available from the time.  But this isnt 
unusual considering the time thats  passed and that BoS arent required to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.  With the information  available I dont have enough to find that BoS 
didnt present the policy as optional, or that Mr D and Ms H didnt choose to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr D 
has told us he would  have  been entitled to sick pay when he look the PPI and could have 
relied on his parents to help if he was unable  to make his repayments.  But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr Ds sick pay. And while Mr Ds parents would have wanted to 
help, their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which  
could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
So I think it was right for them. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr D and Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr D chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr D off taking  out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Ms H.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Ref: DRN61031152Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6103115