K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. While there are no documents available  from the time of sale, this 
isnt unusual in a case where the sale took place  over 22 years  ago. Mr and Mrs W 
havent indicated  that they were told they didnt have  a choice about it  their main 
complaint is about the information  they were given  at the time - and Lloyds says that the 
policy wasnt compulsory. And Mr and Mrs W already  had a mortgage with Lloyds which 
theyd taken out in 1986 and changed in 1990.  This mortgage didnt have PPI attached. 
It was only when  Mr and Mrs W changed  their mortgage again in 1999 that they took the 
PPI (which then also covered their earlier borrowing). So I think  theyd have known they 
didnt need to take the PPI. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time, shows  that 
Ref: DRN61610252the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example, Mr and Mrs 
W were eligible for the cover and they didnt have  any means to fall back  on, so they had 
a need for cover. While Mr and Mrs W say they also had a separate accident, sickness  
and unemployment  policy with Lloyds before they bought the PPI, they cant remember  
anything about  it and they havent  been able to provide any evidence of it.  
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ws employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mrs W says she had experienced two 
medical conditions  some time before the policy was taken  out I dont think it was wrong  
for Lloyds to have  recommended it. I say this because Mrs Ws conditions  do not appear 
to have caused her any difficulty  in the year or so before the sale and so would not have 
been excluded  from cover.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs W as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  likely given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went  wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs W would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite  its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs W would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint   just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
my decision
Ref: DRN61610253Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
S. Allbeury
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6161025