K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how QIC Europe  Ltd handled  his home  insurance  claim and related  
complaint. 
All references to QIC include any agents  it has appointed to handle claims and/or 
complaints.
background
Mr K called QIC to make  a claim after noticing  some damage to his property which  he 
thought had resulted from a recent storm. QIC asked  Mr K a number of questions about  
himself and the other people living in the property, some of which he refused to answer.  He 
believes the information that was being  requested shouldve been  gathered  when the policy  
was taken out rather than being  asked at the point a claim was made. And he felt some 
questions amounted to interrogation and an invasion of his childrens privacy.
Mr K provided answers to some of the questions in subsequent  conversations. But he 
expressed concern  at various times about how his claim  and related complaint were being 
handled. QIC ultimately decided that all communication between  Mr K and the claims and 
complaints teams should be in writing.  But it also appointed a third party investigator to visit 
Mr K at home in order to gather the information it needed to progress the claim.
Mr K wasnt  happy with QICs conduct, so asked us to look into his complaint. But our 
investigator didnt  think  QIC had done anything  wrong. Mr K disagreed  so the case  has 
come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  Mr Ks 
complaint and will explain why.
Was QIC entitled to ask the questions and request the information it did as part of the claim-
handling process?
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy,  theyll be asked various questions  
about themselves,  what they want to insure and/or to confirm that information previously 
provided and held by the insurer is correct. In short, the insurer  does this to assess  how 
likely it is the consumer  will make a claim  and to decide whether to offer them  a policy. And 
the consumer  has a duty to take reasonable care not to make any misrepresentations when  
providing that information. With that in mind,  the insurer is entitled to rely on the answers and 
information given  by the consumer  without undertaking  further checks  to verify that 
information is correct   when deciding whether to offer them an insurance  policy.
Ive mentioned this because  Mr Ks concerns all seem to stem  from the questions  asked 
about him and his family members   who he says live with him at the insured property  
when he first reported the claim. He seems  to think QIC should have asked for more  
information upfront  and checked all the information  he did provide (in answer to the 
questions posed  when he applied for the policy) when he applied  for the policy  in 2016  
and/or when he renewed it in 2017.  But he says QIC asked extra  questions  about him and 
his family   such their dates of birth, whether they had any County Court Judgments  and 
Ref: DRN67103342how long theyd lived at the address  as part of its claims  validation process. And Mr K 
doesnt think that was right or relevant to his claim.  But I disagree. 
The policy terms and conditions warned Mr K that if he made a claim QIC might need to 
check the information he gave when he applied for the policy. And the questions QIC asked 
after Mr K claimed were about  the insured property and the people who lived in it and related 
to the questions he was asked and statements he agreed to when he took out the policy. I 
think QIC was entitled  to take at face value  the answers and information Mr K gave when  he 
applied for the policy and agreed to its renewal. And I think it was fair and appropriate for 
QIC to seek further verification of this information  once  Mr K got in touch to make a claim.
Mr K wouldnt answer all of QICs questions in the initial call but did provide further  
information later on, including his sons names  and dates of birth as well as proof  that he and 
his wife were actually living at the property. The latter, in particular, was requested because 
QIC had been  unable to otherwise verify that they were living there.  But some questions 
seem to remain unanswered, such as why one of Mr Ks sons  appears to be operating a 
business from the insured property when the policy does not permit such  activity and the 
renewal documents  said Mr K agreed the property was not being used for such purposes.
 
Ultimately QIC decided  to appoint a third party  to visit Mr K at home in order to get the 
verification it needed and, also potentially,  to inspect the damage. Given  QICs concerns and 
the difficulty theyd  had communicating with Mr K over the phone,  and in writing, I dont think  
this was an unreasonable decision to take. Nor do I think this was wrong or unfair  just 
because QIC had previously said it would only correspond  with Mr K in writing. I think QIC 
was trying to help progress Mr Ks claim and the face-to-face meeting was the only way it felt 
that it could do so. 
Overall, I dont  think QIC acted unreasonably  when it tried to gather further information from 
Mr K either in the initial  claim call or subsequently.  And I cant fairly say it shouldve  
proceeded with the claim without this information.  
Did QIC treat Mr K unfairly during  its correspondence with him?
Mr K has said he shouldnt  have  had to communicate through  QICs claims-handling agent, 
calls he was promised werent  received  and hes complained more generally about  how 
members of QICs staff conducted themselves, including that they didnt use his correct title. 
But, overall, I think QIC handled things in a professional manner, in what  I believe were often 
quite challenging  circumstances.
QIC hasnt been  able to provide recordings of all the calls that took place between  it and 
Mr K. But Ive listened to a number of calls and I note Mr K often spoke  over the call-handler,  
refused to listen to their explanations, became aggressive and made, what  I think were, 
unreasonable demands including asking for matters to be escalated  when the call-handler 
was trying to help and was the best person  to take things forward.  So I can understand why 
QIC told Mr K it would only correspond with him in writing.
Its possible some mistakes may have been made at times  such as not making it entirely 
clear why an individual wasnt immediately available to speak to Mr K or call him back 
precisely when he wanted  but people do sometimes make mistakes.  And I dont  think  the 
mistakes were intentional or that anyone was trying to be deliberately obstructive or 
aggravating, as Mr K suggests. 
Ref: DRN67103343Similarly, with respect to the title QIC used when corresponding  with Mr K, I note they used 
the one he gave when he applied online for the policy.  And he doesnt seem to have 
complained then about his inability to enter the correct title and that limitation didnt stop him 
from agreeing to the contract.
I also have some difficultly understanding why Mr K was so reluctant to deal with the third 
party that QIC had appointed to handle claims.  Its not unusual to outsource  this sort of work 
which is likely why the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  has set specific  
rules about  outsourcing to help ensure customers dont suffer  detriment from such 
arrangements. And, importantly, Ive seen nothing which  suggests  the third party  wasnt 
capable of performing  its function in this particular case.  But if it did make mistakes then 
QIC would  ultimately be responsible for that. The policy terms and conditions also explain 
that Mr K would need to co-operate with QIC and its appointed representatives in relation to 
any claims.  So I dont  consider it was unreasonable of QIC to insist that Mr K speak to the 
dedicated claims team if he wanted his claim to move forward.
Overall, and given the evidence  Ive been given, I dont believe the decisions QIC took were  
unfair or that any mistakes it may have made along  the way are sufficient to warrant  an 
award of compensation.
 
What happens  now?
If, following  receipt of this decision,  Mr K decides to press on with his claim then he will need 
to comply with QICs request for a home  visit by its appointed investigator.  If Mr K is 
subsequently unhappy with how things  progress then he can raise a new complaint with QIC 
and, potentially, with us about  whatever happens after my decision has been issued. 
But I would note that over a year has passed since Mr K made the claim and hes told us 
hes now paid for the damage to be repaired. I can understand  why Mr K took such action, 
not least because  the policy terms and conditions  require him to take  all necessary steps to 
reduce further  damage or loss after making  a claim. But the terms and conditions  also 
explain Mr K must not carry out permanent repairs or get rid of any damaged items without 
getting QICs written permission. Thats because doing so can make it more difficult for QIC 
to assess the extent and cause  of the damage  and so more difficult for Mr K to prove his 
claim (as he is required to do).
As QIC has not yet made a decision on the claim it would be premature of me to say what 
the outcome might  be. So I mention the above  only to help Mr Ks understanding  of what 
might happen next.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710334