K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the sale of his unemployment cover by Assured Futures  Limited. 
background
In 2017, Mr W took out an accident, sickness and unemployment policy. The aim of the 
unemployment cover  was to pay benefit,  after a waiting period  of 30 days, in the event of 
unemployment. However, the policy  included  a term which said the 30 day waiting period 
would only start after any payment  in lieu of notice had ended.  
After becoming unemployed, Mr W made a claim to the insurer. The insurer  said Mr W had 
received payment in lieu of notice for six weeks after his employment ended. It said his 
waiting period would begin after the end of that six week period. 
Mr W complained  to Assured Futures about the sale of the policy.  He thought the policy  term 
regarding the payment  in lieu of notice was significant and should have been brought  to his 
attention. Assured Futures said the documents hed been given at the time of sale made him 
aware of the policy term. Mr W remained unhappy  and so brought  a complaint  to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  Assured Futures 
had provided Mr W with enough information to make him aware  of the policy term. 
Mr W has asked  for an ombudsmans decision so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As the investigator  has explained, its common for these types of policies not to pay benefit 
whilst an insured is receiving payment in lieu of notice. The reason for this is so that a 
claimant doesnt receive more than they would have whilst  they were  working.  Because  of 
this, I wouldnt expect  the term to be specifically brought to Mr Ws attention.  
Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information from the time of sale and I see that the illustration 
had a title Exclusions with five bullet points underneath. One of those bullet points said All 
excess periods will be calculated from when  any payment in lieu of notice period ends.
Also, the key facts document said:
If you have  any payment  in lieu of notice your waiting period will not begin until after your 
payment in lieu of notice  has ended.  (For the full definition of payment in lieu of notice, 
please refer to the certificate of insurance).
The certificate of insurance (or policy)  included the full definition of payment  in lieu of notice. 
Im therefore  satisfied that Mr W was provided  with sufficient information about the policy 
term. Consequently, I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN68298922my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6829892