K822xcomplaint
Mrs F has complained about her home  insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of a claim 
she made following  a water leak.
background 
In February 2017  Mrs F found water in her kitchen ceiling. She released some of the 
pressure and went to stay at friends that night.  She contacted AXA the next day. AXA 
accepted the claim and when a second leak was found in the same area it treated that all as 
part of the same event.  The kitchen ceiling  had been  installed over the top of a pre-existing 
ceiling.
An asbestos  test was carried out but there was a mix-up and the test had to be done again. 
The results  were negative  and AXA began drying the property but in late April 2017 it was 
decided that the floor needed to come  out for that to be done effectively. Mrs F wanted to 
use her own contractor for strip-out and reinstatement  work  and AXA put the drying  
company on hold whilst Mrs F found  quotes.  
By the end of June AXA was concerned that Mrs Fs quotes were too expensive. It said it 
would send its own contractor to provide a quote  for it to consider. The contractor visited 
13 July 2017,  provided an initial quote  at the beginning of August, with an updated and 
uplifted price being  provided before the end of the month. By mid-September 2017 AXAs 
contractor was talking  to Mrs F about material choices  and the work started in early  October.
When the contractor  started to take the ceiling down it was noticed that the concealed  ceiling 
had a textured  finish to it. It was felt there might be asbestos which  hadnt previously been  
checked for in this area. A test was done and came back positive. The ceiling was carefully  
removed and the rest of the work continued, completing in early  December 2017.
The strip-out  work had stopped to allow the asbestos test to be carried  out. The floor had 
been taken up just leaving beams. Mrs F went in to lock the back  door, a beam gave way 
and she was injured  requiring  hospital treatment. When she told AXA about it, it asked the 
contractor and he provided a witness statement saying hed told Mrs F not to go into the 
kitchen, if the door needed locking to go around the outside.
Mrs F was unhappy and complained. AXA accepted  it had caused some  delays and offered 
£100 compensation, but felt it had acted as soon as it reasonably  could have done to 
remove the asbestos. AXA said it was sorry to know Mrs F had fallen and injured herself,  but 
noted the statement the contractor had provided. It said the contractor had passed the 
matter to its liability insurers.
Mrs F complained to us. Our investigator felt the £100 regarding delays was fair and 
reasonable, that whilst  AXA should  have done more  regarding  the asbestos  the risk to Mrs F 
had been low and that a finding about liability for the fall couldnt reasonably be made. 
Mrs F remained unhappy. The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
Ref: DRN62199772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this may cause  Mrs F, I dont intend to uphold it. 
I think AXA did cause some delays  during  this claim.  There was initially a confusion  about 
the sampling of asbestos and it did take a little while for work to start once  AXA received a 
quote from its own contractor. Some lead time would always have been necessary though 
and there  was also a pause whilst  Mrs F looked for her own traders to complete the work. 
In the main I think AXA did keep the claim moving  and the period for repairs  didnt become 
entirely unreasonably  protracted. It would have concluded sooner if it hadnt been paused  to 
let Mrs F explore appointing her own traders.  Overall, I think £100  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
I know Mrs F is worried about  the asbestos  situation. Whilst I can understand her concern 
Im not persuaded that AXA, knowing there was a second ceiling,  should  reasonably  have 
concluded that meant there was a likely  risk of asbestos and carried  out a test on that 
ceiling. Ceilings can be covered over like this for many reasons. AXA could have  been  
clearer with Mrs F though as to what it had tested.
I note that part of the ceiling was taken down by Mrs F and/or her contractors. Id expect 
theyd have still, regardless of the asbestos result, taken  precautions  against inhaling  dust. 
I dont think merely walking around  upstairs  is likely to have disturbed the asbestos finish  
which, apart from the small area exposed at the edges where holes have been cut in the 
ceilings to let water out, was still intact and sandwiched  between the ceilings. The dust 
I think was more likely to have been general dust from between the floors. Its also usually 
the case that asbestos found in this type of finish from this time is relatively low grade/risk. 
I dont doubt what  Mrs F says about  the fall she had, or the lack of advice she received 
leading up to that. However,  I have no reason to doubt what  the contractor says either. 
I appreciate he has a vested interest  in the answer  he has given, but I cant  assume  from 
that he is most likely  not telling the truth. The veracity of both parties  statements is 
something that really  needs testing by questioning under oath, and that is something I am 
unable to do. As our investigator said,  this is something we cant reasonably make a finding 
about as part of this complaint process.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6219977