K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that after depositing around £1,000,000 into his current  account 
Santander UK Plc didnt tell him he wasnt receiving interest. Mr O says Santanders 
systems shouldve picked up that the funds werent held in a suitable account. 
background
On 30 April 2018 Santander received a transfer  of £1,059,319 for Mr O and wrote to him to 
say it had received  the payment and confirm the account it was paid into. The funds were 
paid into Mr Os current account which doesnt  receive interest on credit balances. 
The money remained in Mr Os current account until 16 October 2018. Mr O later 
complained to Santander and said it shouldve contacted him to let him know his money 
wasnt earning interest. Santander responded to Mr Os complaint on 28 September  2018 
but didnt agree it had made  a mistake. It explained that as Mr O is now a private  banking  
customer his banking  manager would review his account in the future.  And Santander sent 
Mr O a hamper because  of the way it dealt with his complaint.  
Mr O referred  his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator 
said that the Mr Os current account  hadnt  received interest on credit balances  since  
September 2016 when his account type was changed. The adjudicator  also said Santander 
sent Mr O regular statements and information  about  his account during the period hes 
complained about.  As the adjudicator didnt feel Santander had made a mistake he didnt 
uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O asked to appeal so his complaints been passed  to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr O is so upset  about not receiving  interest  on the money that was 
paid into his account on 30 April 2018.  But Ive got to be fair to both sides  and Ive looked 
carefully at the account terms for the type of current account Mr O held at the time.  Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr O but having looked at the available  information, Ive reached the same 
decision as the adjudicator. 
The terms say that the current account used to deposit Mr Os money is non-advised. That 
means Santander wont provide advice in relation to the account, it will only provide 
information to the account  holder so they can decide  how to manage  it. So Ive looked at the 
information Santander sent Mr O during the period  in question.  
Santander sent Mr O regular monthly  statements  that showed the spending  and receipts. 
The statements  show  no interest was being paid. I appreciate  Mr O may not have looked at 
his statements but Im satisfied Santander  gave him the right information about what  was 
happening with his account,  in line with the terms. 
Mr O says that Santanders systems shouldve highlighted that his account wasnt suitable 
for the amount of money he deposited.  But Santanders told us that its systems dont operate  
that way and that it would  normally look to provide the type of service Mr Os described 
Ref: DRN63528562under a private banking relationship. I understand Mr Os subsequently signed up to this 
service. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O but theres nothing in the account terms that says Santander will 
actively monitor his account  and contact him to check its suitable  if it receives  an unusual 
deposit. The account terms say its a non advised product which, put simply, means it will 
give the account holder the information  they need  to manage their account. And from what  
Ive seen, Im satisfied its done that here. Santander  says it shouldve done a better job 
when responding to Mr Os complaint and sent him a hamper. I think thats  fair in the 
circumstances. As I havent  found  Santander  made any other  mistakes  Im not telling it to do 
anything else to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6352856