K822xComplaint
Mrs C says Renault Retail Group UK Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Background 
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint which  included  the following:
In 2007 Mrs C entered into a hire purchase (HP) agreement with Renault to buy a car. At 
the same  time, it sold her a regular premium  PPI policy.
Initially, one of our adjudicators recommended  the complaint be upheld. They didnt think  
Renault had made it clear  to Mrs C that the PPI was optional  or what  the PPI would  cost.  
After considering Renaults appeal, another adjudicator  was of the view the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the latter, so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Among the things Renault needed  to do as part of selling  PPI to Mrs C was explain to her 
that the PPI was optional and get her agreement for it to be added. From  the evidence  Ive 
seen so far, I cant see that Renault  explained that to Mrs C or that it got her agreement for 
the PPI to be added. 
Renault says it no longer  holds copies of the paperwork Mrs C signed in arranging  the HP 
agreement or buying PPI. Instead, its sent us a redacted  copy of a sample  of the type of HP 
agreement it says Mrs C would have  signed.  Renault argues the sample  makes  clear that 
the PPI was optional.
In general, there are circumstances in which Id be prepared to rely on sample  evidence  
where the actual  evidence  from the times no longer  available. Irrespective of how PPIs  set 
out in the sample HP agreement we have on file, I have concerns about  whether I can rely 
on it. Essentially, Mrs C would have signed  her agreement in 2007,  while  the sample was 
signed more than two years  earlier.  
Given how much time passed between  the sample  HP agreement being  signed and the 
likely date Mrs C would  have signed  her HP agreement, I cant  fairly  assume  that the two 
documents would  have  looked the same or even  similar.  In particular, I cant  fairly  say that 
what Mrs C likely saw, if at all, in relation to PPI bore any resemblance to the way in which it 
was presented in the sample. 
That being  the case, and on the balance of all of the evidence  currently  available,  I havent 
seen enough evidence to suggest  Renault made it clear to Mrs C that the PPI was optional  
or that it got her agreement for it to be added.
Ref: DRN62867712Its possible that there were other failings in how Renault sold the PPI to Mrs C although I 
currently see no need to address them  in the light of the above findings as theyre enough 
for me to uphold  the complaint.   
Putting things  right
Renault should put Mrs C in the position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Renault  should:
Pay Mrs C the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Renault can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Renault  to take off tax from this interest. Renault must  
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I currently intend  to uphold  this complaint. Im minded  to require 
Renault Retail Group UK Limited to put things right for Mrs C as explained above.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Renault said it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.  Mrs C didnt reply.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint. 
Having done so, and given that neither partys challenged my provisional decision  or 
provided more evidence or information  for me to consider, Ive decided to uphold  the 
complaint for the reasons I previously set out.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding this complaint. I require Renault Retail Group  UK 
Limited to put things  right for Mrs C as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ref: DRN62867713Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6286771