K821x#15complaint
Mrs S and Ms D have made a complaint about pension advice that was given to their late 
father (Mr W) by Holberg Limited. Holberg were appointed  representatives of 
TenetConnect Limited.
background
Mr W took advice in 2015. He wanted to review the Capped Drawdown plan he held with 
Aegon. Holberg  wrote  to Mr W confirming his circumstances.  He was 81 and in good health, 
he was widowed with no dependent  children. He held a Capped  Drawdown  plan with Aegon 
which was valued  at just over £147,000.  He was taking an income  of just over £12,000 per 
year and he had some  other pension income. He wished to start giving  money to his 
daughters as he felt they needed  it more  than he did, and he preferred that they have  the 
money now. He wanted to make his two daughters the beneficiaries  of this pension and 
possibly completely encash  it and pay it to them.
Holberg advised  Mr W that it wouldn't be wise to completely encash the Aegon plan as the 
fund value would be added to his existing  income and then be taxed accordingly. It said that 
the best option for him would be to continue with the plan's  current drawdown option,  which  
could meet his requirements. 
Hollberg also said that if Mr W died whilst in drawdown, his beneficiaries would  continue  to 
take income from the remaining  fund, taxed as earnings. They  could also use the fund to buy 
an annuity instead, with income taxed. The beneficiaries also had the option  of taking the 
remaining fund as a lump sum, taxed at their marginal rates  of tax.
Holberg sent Aegon a completed  Death Benefit Nomination form to update the beneficiaries  
on the plan (to Mrs S and Ms D).
.
On 3 June 2015 Aegon  wrote to Holberg confirming that the nominated beneficiaries  had 
been changed. The letter  also confirmed:
"If Policy holder  deceases  after turning 75:
Under previous  rules,  we had to deduct a 55% tax charge from any lump sum paid to 
nominated survivor. However,  the government announced that it intends to reduce  this tax 
charge to 45% for any lump sum payments made on or after 6 April 2015, and then change it 
from 45% to marginal rate from 6 April 2016.
If they decide they would like to take all or part of their benefit  as a lump  sum, until after 6 
April 2016 so that they would receive the lump sum at their marginal rate. Even if they do 
want us to delay  payment,  we will usually switch  the funds out of the existing investments 
into a cash fund as soon as they tell us what their benefit choice is. The money will stay in 
the cash fund until just before we make the payment to you."
Mr W died in early  2017. After his death, Aegon confirmed to Mrs S and Ms D that they were 
unable to transfer their share of their late father's  Aegon fund, tax free, to their own 
pensions. It also said that the only option  available to the beneficiaries was for the fund to be 
paid as a lump sum, less the deduction of emergency tax.
Ref: DRN63687082This was because Mr W's plan was in Capped Drawdown when he died and hadnt been 
changed to Flexi Access  Drawdown (FAD). The plan didnt offer the new survivor options 
introduced in April 2015. It would have  been  possible  to do the switch before  Mr W's death 
as he was the policyholder, but this wasnt an option for his beneficiaries.
Mrs S and Ms D complained to TenetConnect. They understood that following the pension  
legislation changes in April 2015  and their discussion with Holberg in February  2017, they 
would receive the remaining pot from their late father's Aegon  Drawdown  pension.  This was 
approximately £145,000, free of Inheritance Tax, which they intended  to take income when 
they each reach pensionable age.
But they were now left with no option  other  than to receive their father's pension fund as a 
lump sum and pay a total of around  £60,000  in tax.
TenetConnect didn't uphold the complaint.  It said:
The suitability letter Mr W received  on 15 May 2015 allowed the advisor  to record  
what advice and discussions  had taken place during his initial meeting with Mr W. Mr 
W was able to check the accuracy of the report and request any amendments  to 
ensure the advice  was recorded  accurately. TenetConnect hasn't seen any evidence 
to suggest the report is not accurate.
Mr W wanted to pass  across  as much of his wealth as possible to his daughters and 
was looking to make large gifts.  Mr W had confirmed that he had too much income 
and assets for his needs, which is why he had decided to start gifting his money.
Mr W was looking  to encash  his whole pension and then gift this to both his 
daughters. However, Holberg advised  against  this due to the large amounts of 
potential tax that would be due on such gifts.  Had his pension been  gifted at this 
point, Mr W would've  paid income tax and the beneficiaries would  pay Inheritance 
Tax in addition.
A drawdown pension  can be passed on to a beneficiary and held in a drawdown pot 
until needed, at which point the beneficiary pays their marginal rate of tax. It is 
therefore clear that with the new pension rules,  keeping the Aegon pension  in 
drawdown rather than gifting it away was beneficial and was suitable advice.
Holberg had checked with Aegon in a call on 6 May 2015 that Mr W could utilise  
drawdown for beneficiaries.  Holbergs file note recorded that: "Options on death 
drawdown for beneficiaries or lump sum (taxed  as income) or annuity".
After learning of Mr W's death  Holberg rang and spoke to Aegon  on 22 February 
2017. It said that Aegon again confirmed that the drawdown  option could be utilised 
by Mrs S and Ms D. The file note reads:  "Spoke to Aegon on death benefit options - 
ROF less tax and drawdown/annuity option."
So TenetConnect says that it has evidence that it was given incorrect information by Aegon 
at the time of the advice.  Even during the second call, Aegon  were still unaware that Mr W's 
pension could not facilitate drawdown for his beneficiaries. 
Mrs S and Ms D didnt agree and referred the complaint to this service. An investigator  
considered the complaint and decided  that it should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN63687083The investigator concluded, in summary:
Mr W's main  objective at the time of the advice was to give as much money to his 
daughters in the most tax efficient way. Holberg advised him that the best way to do 
this was to use his Capped Drawdown plan as this would allow  his daughters  to draw 
income from the plan at their marginal rate of tax at pension age.
TenetConnect has said that Aegon confirmed to Holberg that this was achievable 
through the Capped Drawdown plan. What  Aegon had said was that in order to use 
the full fund to continue  the Income Drawdown in the beneficiaries' own names,  they 
had to be a qualifying survivor. Neither  Mrs S or Ms D met the definition  of a 
qualifying survivor.
Aegon has also confirmed that in 2015,  if Mr W had decided he wished to use the 
funds of his Capped Drawdown to set up a Flexible Access  Drawdown (FAD),  he 
could have done so.  FAD would have  allowed his named beneficiaries  to continue a 
drawdown pension  in their own names.
TenetConnect has said that Holberg spoke with Aegon on two occasions and Aegon  
confirmed that Mr W's Capped Drawdown plan could be utilised by the beneficiaries  
to receive income from the plan. Unfortunately, Aegon was unable to locate  the 
telephone call recording from May 2015, but it could  provide  the telephone call of 22 
February 2017. The investigator  listened to that call but didnt agree that Aegon had 
said that the Capped Drawdown plan could provide income to the beneficiaries.  This 
was supported by the fact that in its letter to Holberg dated  3 June 2015, Aegon  didn't 
mention that an Income Drawdown option was available for Mr W's beneficiaries.
The investigator concluded that Holberg  should  have known the 2015 pension  legislation  did 
not apply to Mr W's Capped Drawdown  plan, and that to take benefit  of the new legislation,  a 
transfer to a FAD would  be required.
TenetConnect didnt  agree. It said, in summary, if Mr W hadnt taken advice it was likely that 
he would  have encashed his pension pot and it would have become taxable  anyway so 
there is no loss. If the call with Aegon in February  2017 doesnt mention death benefits, this 
doesnt mean that Holberg werent  misled  in the call in 2015.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out the background to this complaint in detail above.  My decision will focus on the 
issues that I consider  are most relevant to the outcome. Ive not commented on each and 
every point that the parties have raised but instead focussed on the points that I think  are 
most crucial.
Overall, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN63687084TenetConnect say that Mr Ws beneficiaries are no worse off because  if he had not taken 
advice, he would have  encashed the pension and they would face the same tax liability.  
There may be some truth to that statement, but that isnt the test that I must apply. I must 
assess the advice  that was given. Mr W did take advice  and he was entitled  to expect that 
advice would be provided with reasonable skill and care.  Im satisfied that Holberg was 
mistaken in its advice, and there is a loss to Mr Ws beneficiaries as a result.
Effectively Mr W wanted to gift money  to his daughters during his lifetime  (and after his 
death) in a tax efficient way. Holbergs advice  on how that could be best achieved  wasnt  
right. Essentially, in order for Mr W to achieve  his aim it was necessary for him to move  his 
Capped Drawdown into FAD. His Capped  Drawdown had limitations which  meant it couldnt 
be used for the benefit of his daughters, as he wished, after his death. Im satisfied that 
Holberg knew, or ought to have known, that the Capped Drawdown had these  limitations. It 
ought to have known from the information  from Aegon that Mrs S and Ms D were not 
qualifying survivors.
Im satisfied that if suitable  advice had been  given, Holberg should  have recommended  a 
move to FAD which would  have meant that Mrs S and Ms D could have continued  to receive 
drawdown income paying income tax at their marginal rate. There  would have been no 
additional tax which is now likely  to be payable as the pension has been encashed as a lump  
sum (in January 2019). Im satisfied  that if Mr W had received that advice, he would have 
followed it. He did follow the advice Holberg gave in 2015 regarding  the change in 
beneficiaries.
Ive considered what TenetConnect has said about  the phone  calls it made to Aegon, but Im 
not satisfied that it was misled by these conversations. Aegon doesnt  confirm that 
drawdown benefits would be payable to these beneficiaries in the 2017  call. And in any 
event, that was after Mr Ws death. I dont know exactly what  was said in the 2015  call, as no 
recording is available. Aegon may have said that the Capped Drawdown plan could provide 
income to beneficiaries after the death of Mr W, as Holberg had noted. But that statement  in 
itself would not be inaccurate as it could in certain circumstances, for example, if they were 
qualifying survivors. 
The changes to pension  legislation, introduced  in 2015, that Holberg referred to were 
enabling and didnt automatically change  the terms and conditions of existing plans.
I think that Holberg had sufficient information to identify that this Capped  Drawdown plan 
would not meet Mr Ws objectives  after his death. It ought to have advised  accordingly. Mr W 
could have switched  to FAD and had he done  so, the tax liability  for the beneficiaries would 
probably have  been  reduced. 
fair compensation
Mrs S and Ms D have received the death  benefits  from the pension  as a lump sum. This 
means the payment is likely to be subject to additional tax. The additional tax payable is a 
loss to Mrs S and Ms D as if they had received  the pension as income, they would have paid 
tax at their marginal rate only. Both Mrs S and Ms D have evidenced that they have been  
making additional pension contributions and therefore taking advantage of tax relief  that is 
available. This should  mitigate  their loss.
To compensate Mrs S and Ms D for their loss TenetConnect must:
Ref: DRN636870851.Calculate the difference between the tax Mrs S and Ms D would've paid at their 
marginal rate and compare  this with the tax they will now have to pay due to taking 
the benefits as a lump sum.
2.The difference is the loss and TenetConnect should pay this sum to Mrs S and Ms D.
Mrs S and Ms D will need to cooperate with TenetConnect and provide the necessary 
income and tax information.
It should be assumed  that Mrs S and Ms D will be lower rate tax payers  in retirement.
TenetConnect must provide  them  with details of its calculation in a clear and concise form.
final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6368708