K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc mis-sold him ISAs  given  it 
was aware he was a US citizen. This means  he is now faced with the option  of giving up his 
American citizenship or having to pay taxes  and accountants costs.
background
Mr J had been living and working in the UK for around 40 years. He met with an adviser from 
St Jamess in 2011 and was advised  to invest in ISAs and to transfer his existing holdings  to 
St Jamess  Place. At that time, he also held pensions with various providers as well as 
savings and property.
Mr J says the advisor was aware  he had dual citizenship and so should not have 
recommended the ISA investments. He was unaware he had to complete tax returns  to the 
US IRS, and had never done  so before. This only came to light when he sought  to open an 
account with a separate provider. He feels St Jamess should be responsible  for the tax bill 
he is now facing from the US.
St Jamess denied that it was aware  that Mr J held a dual nationality,  saying that in order  to 
proceed with an ISA he would have had to declare that he was a UK resident, and did so on 
the form. 
An adjudicator at this service  felt, having spoken to Mr J, that it should have been clear  that 
he might not have been born in the UK, and the adviser could/should  have questioned this. 
However this does not mean the adviser would have been aware Mr J held dual citizenship 
bearing in mind hed worked in the UK for a long time and held other investments and property. 
With hindsight it might have been better to suggest that Mr J seek tax advice independently. 
However, there was no regulatory or contractual  obligation on the part of the adviser  to 
provide him with tax advice or suggest  that he should speak to a US tax adviser.
Mr J didnt agree, reiterating that the advisor definitely knew  he had dual citizenship and they 
have discussed  his possible plans to retire  back in the States. He added  that his sister was a 
client of the same adviser. He also referred  to discussions within  the financial community 
about US citizens and investments as far back as 2009.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently. In cases like these, where  there  is a direct conflict  between  what  the 
complainant alleges  and the advisor says, it is very difficult to uphold  a complaint in the 
absence of any corroborating evidence. 
 
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
was aware  or ought to have been  aware  that Mr J held dual citizenship. I accept that, 
given Mr Js apparent American accent,  the advisor might have questioned  him about his 
nationality. But I cannot fairly say that he ought  to have  done  given Mr J signed  the 
application form which stated he was a UK citizen.
Ref: DRN60388032I recognise that Mr J clearly did not understand the significance of not mentioning that he 
held dual citizenship and, unfortunately,  only became aware of this much later. But the fact 
that Mr J himself did nothing wrong  and yet has suffered this tax liability  does not mean that 
St Jamess can reasonably be held responsible for it  in the absence  of clear and 
persuasive evidence  that it is to blame  for whats happened.  
I dont doubt that there was some understanding of the US Governments approach to 
foreign investment earnings within the financial community, and I would have expected an 
advisor at St Jamess to be aware of this. But this does not mean this advisor should have 
been aware it applied to Mr J.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038803