K820x#14complaint
Mr H2 complains  on behalf  of his parents Mr and Mrs H, that Aviva  Insurance  Limited 
refused to give information on the value of their no claims  discount (NCD)  if they made a 
further claim.
background
Mr H2 put in a claim on behalf of Mr H for accidentally broken dentures. He put the claim on 
hold as Mr and Mrs H had a 5 year protected NCD. The terms of this were that if two claims 
were made within 5 years, the NCD would remain but if there were a further claim the NCD 
would be reduced  by 3 years  and the premium  would  be impacted on renewal. Mr H2 
requested through the insurance agents  how it would affect  the premium if they were  to 
proceed with the further claim.  Avivas  agent said that it couldnt give out hypothetical  
information. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the information  Mr H2 requested  wasnt  
available for commercial reasons and Aviva didnt  have to provide it.
Mr H said his complaint hadnt been understood  he specifically wanted to know:
1 How much  the NCD was worth.
2 How much  the cost of protecting the NCD was; and 
3 How a further  claim would affect the NCD and future premiums.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that the complaint made to Aviva  concerned Mr and Mrs Hs position if they 
decided to proceed with the claim.  I cant see that at the time specific  information was sought  
by Mr H2 as to the actual  value of the NCD or the cost of protecting it. I think Mr and Mrs H 
were entitled  to that information which our investigator has obtained  from Aviva  at my 
request. I have passed that information on to Mr H2.
As to the information sought on the likely effect of a third claim all I can say is that Mr H2 has 
been told that a third claim in 5 years  would reduce the NCD by 3 years.  Aviva  has said that 
unless and until a third claim is processed and its value and circumstances processed it 
cant answer Mr H2s query as to how this would  affect the NCD and any future premiums. In 
other words it cant answer  a hypothetical  question.
Im sure that Aviva has commercial guidelines and internal pricing information which  would 
enable it to work out the premium in given circumstances. But that is sensitive commercial 
information which it isnt obliged to share with its customers. Insurers  are allowed to keep 
confidential such information. This service  regards that as a reasonable position  for 
businesses to take.
Ref: DRN64308792So I wont  require Aviva to disclose information about the likely impact of a third claim,  
beyond that which it has already disclosed.  Mr H2 will have to decide in consultation with 
Mr and Mrs H whether  they wish to pursue their claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H2 on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6430879