K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG)  handling of her claim under 
her Landlords HomeCare  policy, and its refusal to meet her costs  in repairing a leak.
background
Miss M said her neighbour below the flat she lets reported that a leak was coming  through 
her ceiling. Miss M contacted BG and said it sent out three  engineers, but they couldn't 
locate the problem.
Miss M thought the problem might  be the washing machine or boiler, but said BGs engineer 
told her it's 99% not the washing  machine. Miss Ms tenant was unhappy  at having to wait in 
for appointments, so Miss M took time off work to do this. And when  the problem wasnt 
resolved she said she felt she had no choice but to instruct  her own plumber.
Miss M was charged around £600  by the plumber  who said that he found three problems 
with the washing  machine  and low boiler pressure which  he said might  be caused  by a
leaking radiator. Miss M said the plumber  was able to fix all of the problems.  Miss M said BG 
offered her £99, but she feels it should  cover  her entire cost of the plumber as she would 
never had needed to pay if BG had fixed the problems when it had the chance.
BG said its records  show that there were no leaks found on Miss Ms washing machine. BG 
said she reported a leak from the toilet - not the washing machine and it thought  there was 
no link between her concerns and the repair she paid for to the washing machine. BG paid 
Miss M £99 as a gesture  of goodwill  being the amount it said it would have cost it for the 
repairs. But it said it wouldnt meet the costs of her plumber as she hadnt given it the 
opportunity to revisit and it doesnt  pay third party costs unless agreed in advance.  
The investigator said BG checked  the washing machine twice but couldnt find a leak, and 
Miss M then paid her own plumber whos report detailed  the leaks from inside the washing  
machine. She said BGs reports werent  detailed and didnt say a check  of the inside of the 
machine had been made before concluding there was no leak. She thought  it likely that BG's 
plumber missed the leak from the washing  machine. She said BG had disregarded  Miss Ms 
report and its response  to her complaint was unfair. She said BG should pay Miss M for her 
plumber, less the £99 already paid. And BG should pay Miss M £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  it had caused her, including her time making phone  calls to BG. 
BG disagreed with the investigator. It said it had made clear  the process of the inspection  its 
staff carry out during  home visits and everything its engineer will cover. BG said its clear 
that it has been thorough. BG requested  an ombudsman review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is not to determine how the leaks in Miss Ms flat should have been addressed, but 
to see if BG handled her claim fairly  and whether  or not its been fair to her in the payment  of 
compensation. 
BG has provided details  of its normal inspection regime  when an engineer is called out. But 
its report of the visits to Miss Ms flat lack details  of the checks that were actually carried  out. 
Ref: DRN67609232BG said its records  show that there were no leaks found on Miss Ms washing machine. But 
the record shows the machine was checked and so I cant be sure whether its engineer 
checked the inside of the washing machine where the leaks were situated,  or not.
BG said when Miss M made contact she reported  a leak from the toilet and this wasnt  linked 
to any concerns about the washing machine. But BGs visit notes show  there were concerns 
about the toilet and the washing machine  and so I dont think  its correct here.
Miss M said she felt little option  than to call her own emergency plumber as BG hadnt been 
able to identify  the source  of the leak. I can appreciate the pressure she was under; her 
tenant couldnt be available for further  appointments and the occupant of the flat below was 
fed up with water entering her ceiling. 
BG had opportunities to identify the source  of the problem and hadnt managed  to do so. I 
can understand why Miss M lost confidence  in BGs ability to fix the problem and went ahead  
with the repair.  I think  this was a reasonable course of action under the circumstances and I 
think the fair response  from BG would  have been to meet her repair bill in full.
BG hasnt  done so, and this has caused  Miss M further delay and inconvenience to what  she 
suffered during the period of the claim.  For this, I agree with the investigator,  that it would be 
fair in the circumstances for BG to pay her compensation  of £150.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Miss M £612, being the cost to her of a 
plumber, less its £99 compensation it previously offered so long as this has been paid.
I also require British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay Miss M £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her during and after its poor handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6760923