K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the way in which Sainsburys Bank Plc dealt with their 
application for a joint personal loan. They arent happy  that the interest rate they were 
offered was higher than the rate they saw advertised online. Theyre  also are unhappy  they 
had to add their new loan to their existing loan. 
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs M wanted to take out a loan in order to buy a car. They used a 
comparison website to see what loans  were available and say that Sainsburys offered the 
lowest interest rate. So, they telephoned  Sainsburys to apply for their new loan. 
Mr and Mrs M say that, at that time,  they had an excellent credit rating and high disposable  
income. They thought they were a good  credit risk. They already had a loan with 
Sainsburys, which they had taken out earlier the same year in the sum of £7500 and were 
up to date with. They  say they didnt  want to consolidate their existing loan as it would mean  
paying penalty interest on their previous loan and taking out a new larger one. But they said 
Sainsburys told them there  was no other  option  but to consolidate their borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs M said their new loan attracted  an interest  rate of 7.5%, which was much higher 
than the rate quoted  online. They werent  happy  they had to consolidate  their existing loan,  
which led to the overall  cost of the loan being  significantly  higher. Mr and Mrs M thought  their 
original loan should have been left alone. They said, in not doing so, Sainsburys made  the 
repayment of the new larger loan more  difficult.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with how their loan application had been handled by 
Sainsburys. So, on 27 November  2018, they complained that it had incorrectly advised  them  
and given them no alternative but to consolidate an existing loan into a new loan at a 
potentially higher interest rate. They  also complained  that the interest rate was unfair.
Sainsburys investigated Mr and Mrs Ms concerns and issued its final response to their 
complaint on 4 December 2018. In that response  it said the interest  rate they had seen  
advertised online was a representative rate, which it offered at least 51% of its customers. 
But it said that rate can differ once a credit search  has been undertaken. It also stated that it 
hadnt told Mr and Mrs M theyd have to consolidate  their loan or recommend they should do 
that. So, it didnt  think it had made  a mistake.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with Sainsburys response so they brought their complaint 
to us, where our investigator didnt uphold it. They thought  Mr and Mrs M had been  given  
adequate information about  the interest rate and monthly payments their new loan would 
attract. And they were  satisfied Mr and Mrs M had made their own choice  to consolidate their 
loan. So, they didnt think Sainsburys had made an error in the way it had handled and 
processed their loan application. But, Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for their complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by this 
outcome. But I hope they can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Ref: DRN68608582I can see that Mr and Mrs M sought to raise  additional concerns  about their loan with our 
service. But those concerns have  been remitted back to Sainsburys for it to investigate 
separately. So, like our investigator  Ill base my decision  and comments around the issues 
Mr and Mrs M raised in their complaint of November  2018. This means Ill only be 
considering whether Sainsburys acted fairly  in relation to the interest rate it applied to their 
loan and whether  it forced them to consolidate  their borrowing.  
Ill dealt first with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about  the interest rate their new loan attracted. 
They say it was higher that the rate they saw advertised online and they feel this is unfair.  
Sainsburys said it makes it clear  on its own website and most comparison websites that the 
interest rates quoted are representative and that the interest rate offered may differ.  And I 
can see that it explained to Mr and Mrs M that the rate advertised on the price  comparison 
website they used was the representative  rate, which  is the rate it offers  at least 51% of its 
customers. When a customer applies for a loan, Sainsburys said the advertised rate can 
change once an individual credit search  has been completed.  This isnt unusual and it 
doesnt mean Sainsburys made an error  in quoting  a lower rate online  to the rate Mr and 
Mrs M were offered.  
I understand that when Mr and Mrs M applied for their initial loan with Sainsburys the 
interest rate they were  offered was more  that the representative rate that had been 
advertised. This loan was also taken in 2015. Based on that experience, I think Mr and Mrs 
M ought  to have been aware  that the interest  rate they may be offered  on their second  loan 
application could  differ from the representative rate quoted online. 
Mr and Mrs M told our service that when they applied for additional borrowing they had an 
excellent credit score,  which  they say was higher  that when they took out their initial loan. 
So, they feel they were  a good credit risk and cant understand why they werent offered the 
lower representative  interest rate. But while Mr and Mrs M may be keen to get a better 
understanding of why they werent  offered  a lower interest rate its, ultimately,  up to 
Sainsburys how it assesses what interest  rate to offer its customers. Thats  a business 
decision for it to make.  And its not for our service to tell Sainsburys how to assess loan 
applications or say it should have offered a lower interest rate in a particular set of 
circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M chose to proceed with their new loan after being informed 
about the cost theyd  incur. I say this because  during the call they made to Sainsburys  to 
discuss their new borrowing they were told about  the interest rate their new loan would 
attract. And the loan agreement  they signed  and returned to Sainsburys contains clear 
information about the interest rate, amount of interest theyd incur and monthly  instalments  
payable. 
Mr and Mrs M were  free to reject that loan if they werent happy with its terms and 
conditions. Id have  expected them to have read and understood their loan agreement to 
ensure they were happy with it. And Id also have expected them  to contact Sainsburys if 
they had any concerns  or queries about their loan. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M signed  
and returned their loan agreement after being  given the information  theyd  need  to 
understand the real cost of their loan so they could decide whether to proceed with their 
application. It follows that I cant say Sainsburys made an error here.
Ref: DRN68608583Ill turn now to the second part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint,  which is about their new 
borrowing being consolidated with their previous  loan. 
While Mr and Mrs M compared  interest rates across the market online they applied for their 
loan over the telephone. Sainsburys said as telephony loan applications are non-advisory it 
doesnt provide  any advice  about loan applications.  Instead it gives  customers information 
about the options available  to enable them to make  an informed choice. 
The recording of the call Mr and Mrs M made to Sainsburys in 2015  isnt available, which is 
unsurprising given the passage of time. However,  Sainsburys has told our service about  the 
procedure that was in place at that time for loan applications over the telephone. It said, as 
part of its telephony  scripting, the agent  Mr and Mrs M would have spoken to would have 
informed them of their options and asked  whether  they wanted to look at taking out a new 
loan to run alongside their existing loan or consolidating  their existing loan with additional 
borrowing. Sainsburys said Mr and Mrs M would have been  offered both options during their 
telephone discussion  and it said a recommendation wouldnt have been made.
Ive no reason to doubt that Sainsburys followed its telephony scripting procedure when it 
discussed the additional borrowing Mr and Mrs M wanted to take out. I say this because 
while the recording is no longer available Ive seen notes which show  that the agent they 
spoke to read through the telephony script for loan applications. Ive also seen a copy of the 
script that Sainsburys say would  have been  used.
Having considered all of that evidence  its clear to me that no recommendation or advice 
would have been given to Mr and Mrs M about  how to structure their additional borrowing. In 
view of this, Im not persuaded that Sainsburys told them they had no other option but to 
add their new loan to their existing  loan. So, I dont think they were forced to consolidate 
their existing loan as they assert. It was their responsibility to choose whether to take out a 
new loan or consolidate their additional  borrowing with their existing loan. If they now feel 
they made the wrong decision about their loan I cant say this is due to a mistake  
Sainsburys made.
While consolidating Mr and Mrs Ms loan would have increased the interest  payable  on the 
loan they were redeeming theres evidence that if theyd taken out a new loan for the amount  
of their additional borrowing their monthly  repayments would have been higher. I say this 
because the difference between their existing  loan and their new consolidated loan was an 
extra £29.90 for an additional £4000 of borrowing. Sainsburys  said it couldnt have offered a 
new loan with monthly payments as low as that. So, based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded 
the consolidated loan was a more cost effective  option for Mr and Mrs M. And I cant fairly 
conclude that they were  disadvantaged by adding  their new loan to their existing loan.
Ive considered all the points  Mr and Mrs M have made and I appreciate the reasons  why 
they brought this complaint to our service.  But I think Sainsburys has acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to ask it to do 
anymore to resolve this complaint.
Ref: DRN68608584my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6860858