K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1993. Mr and Mrs N say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
This PPI policy was taken  out during a meeting in 1993 when Mr and Mrs N took out a 
mortgage. 
The PPI would have  covered Mr N in the event that he couldnt work through accident, 
sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this PPI policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with our 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make  a final decision on 
the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why below.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form for Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage.  On it theres a section 
for Mortgage Repayment Insurance for Injury, Illness and Unemployment. It then says Do 
you wish to take advantage ofPayment Protection  Insurance Policy to cover your 
mortgage repayments? Theres a prompt to write yes or no in the box next to the 
question. I can see that Yes has been  written in the box. I can also see the level of cover 
has been selected  and the amount of monthly benefit required under  the policy.  So I think  
Mr and Mrs N knew they had a choice in taking the cover and they could chose the level of 
cover they wanted  to take.
Ive seen a copy  of the offer of mortgage;  this shows that PPI had been  selected and that 
there was a monthly cost for the cover.
So based  on everything Ive read and been told, I think B&B made  it clear  there  was a 
choice in taking  PPI  and I think they chose to take it.
B&B say it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs N so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs N got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable  at the time.  
Ref: DRN69323002So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put them  off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs N have said - including  what they have  said about 
being young at the time they took out the cover  and having lots of paperwork to sign. But 
these points dont  change my decision. I say this because from looking at the paperwork,  I 
think it was clear that Mr and Mrs N were taking out protection to cover them in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. I think it was clear they could have declined  the 
cover if they didnt want it. And given Mr and Mrs N were  old enough to take out the 
mortgage, I dont  think I can fairly  say B&B did anything wrong when it sold the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6932300