K821x#15complaint
In 1988, Mr and Ms H took out a mortgage with Bradford  & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley). 
At the same time, Bradford & Bingley  sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
for the mortgage.  Mr and Ms H think that Bradford  & Bingley mis-sold the policy  to them  and 
they want it to refund  them  the premiums they paid for it, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Bradford  & Bingley had given Mr and Ms H a fair chance to apply for the mortgage 
without PPI and recommended  that Bradford & Bingley should pay them  compensation. 
Bradford & Bingley  disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the case, so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account here and Ive 
decided to uphold  Mr and Ms Hs complaint. I explain  why below. 
Mr and Ms H have  told us that they applied for the mortgage and bought the PPI policy  
during a meeting at one of Bradford & Bingleys branches. Theyve  said that Bradford & 
Bingley told them they had to have PPI cover. Bradford & Bingley agrees that Mr and Ms H 
took the PPI policy  during a meeting about the mortgage, but it has said that it gave them  the 
option to apply for the mortgage  with or without  PPI. 
I have seen a copy of the application form that Mr and Ms H signed when they applied  for 
the mortgage and bought PPI. The form was quite  detailed and introduced PPI in a short  
section on the fourth  page of quite dense  text. The section was called "Payment Protection 
Plan". It opened by saying  that either one or both applicants (or a guarantor) for a mortgage 
were eligible  for PPI and asked how much cover they wanted. At the bottom  of the section  
customers could opt out of PPI by ticking a box alongside text which  said if protection is 
NOT required please  indicate  with a tick in the box.
Mr H was the first applicant and on the form someone has written a value  for the amount of 
cover to be arranged for him. Theres also another, higher, value  which has been  crossed  
out. The opt out box has been  left blank, and there is nothing recorded for Ms H.
The form went on to say The society will arrange for the property and payment protection  
insurance to be effected unless instructed  otherwise". This seems to mean that Bradford & 
Bingley were  planning to arrange PPI for Mr and Ms H unless they actively  opted out by 
ticking the box at the bottom of the PPI section. 
In a later section, the application form also gave Mr and Ms H the chance to apply  for 
house and contents insurance  by writing Yes or No alongside a brief description of the 
cover available. Someone  has written Yes,  but this been  crossed  out and No written 
instead. 
Ref: DRN65464162Bradford & Bingley  has argued quite strongly  that its application process and form gave Mr 
and Ms H a fair choice  to apply for their mortgage with or without PPI. Amongst other things,  
it has told us: 
This was a non-advised sale and it was the complainants  responsibility to ensure  
they had read and understood the mortgage application they were signing.
And
The fact is that the option to decline the cover has been included within the box and 
as other  sections of the mortgage  application have answers where  options  are 
required would suggest that it is very clear that the complainants  had indeed  actively 
opted for the cover.
It has also suggested that the way in which answers to some of the question on Mr and Ms 
Hs form have been crossed out implies that they knew they had a choice about PPI. 
Of course,  I wasnt  present at the meeting between Mr and Ms H and Bradford & Bingley, 
and I dont know what was said. But after looking at the application form and the other 
evidence, including  what Mr and Ms H have said, I dont agree with Bradford & Bingley that it 
made it clear  to Mr and Ms H that they could have taken the mortgage without PPI. 
By the time Mr and Ms H reached  the part of the form which allowed them  to opt out of PPI, 
they would  have already completed the questions about who should be covered and for how 
much, and probably discussed this with Bradford  & Bingleys representative at the meeting. 
To opt out, they would  have had to reverse a decision  they had just made. And I think that 
the crossings out could just as well show that Mr and Ms H were confused about by Bradford 
& Bingleys process and what they were  buying,  rather than demonstrate that Bradford & 
Bingley had told them clearly that PPI was optional. 
It also seems  to me that the other questions that Bradford & Bingley mentions, such  as that 
for house and contents insurance, gave  Mr and Ms H slightly  clearer  Yes and No options 
than the section about PPI. And even  if I accept Bradford & Bingleys view that this was a 
non-advised sale  it should have explained PPI to Mr and Ms H clearly and then given them 
a clear choice about it, rather  than putting  all responsibility onto their shoulders. 
I can also see that after Mr and Ms H took their mortgage they applied  for other  credit  with 
Bradford & Bingley.  Bradford & Bingley used different application  forms which gave Mr and 
Ms H Yes/No  choices for PPI. They said No. 
So, I dont think Bradford & Bingley  made it clear to Mr and Ms H that PPI was optional,  
which means that it mis-sold them the policy. It should now put things right for them.
putting things right
Bradford & Bingley  should put Mr and Ms H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. I understand that the policy has been  cancelled and the mortgage paid off, so 
Bradford & Bingley  should:
Pay Mr and Ms H the amount they paid each  month for the PPI policy.
Ref: DRN65464163Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on .
If Mr and Ms H made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley to take off tax from this interest. 
Bradford & Bingley  must give Mr and Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Mr and Ms Hs complaint against  Bradford & 
Bingley Plc. Bradford  & Bingley Plc should put things right by paying  Mr and Ms H the 
compensation I have  described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6546416