K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004 by post.  Ms M says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
American Express had to make Ms M aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent 
before adding it to her card.  American  Express has sent us a copy of the application  form 
Ms M completed  when  she applied for her card. The form had a separate section for PPI 
where the option to take the policy has been selected. The form has also been signed in 
agreement with the selections made on it. So I think American Express made it clear that 
Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
American Express didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have  to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Ms M got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information American Express gave  Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had 
available of making her repayments which included statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer than Ms Ms sick pay and 
covered circumstances other than redundancy.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  the cost of the PPI to 
Ms M.
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Ref: DRN61441832Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6144183