K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford.
background
Ms S took out a total of six loans with Sunny  between March and November 2015.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 23.03.15 31.03.15 £200
2 28.04.15 08.07.15 £200
3 12.06.15 08.07.15 £150
4 18.09.15 13.10.15 £250
5 02.10.15 13.10.15 £300
6 28.11.15 - £550
All the loans  were due to be repaid in six monthly instalments. Ms S repaid the first five loans 
early. But Sunnys records show that by the time it sold the final loan in May 2016, Ms S 
hadnt made any repayments towards  it.
Ms S believes that if Sunny had carried out proper checks, it would have  realised that she 
was in financial difficulties  when she applied for the loans. So she believes it shouldnt  have 
made them.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  he 
thought that Sunny had carried out sufficient checks before making the first two loans, and 
he didnt think it had been unreasonable to make them. But he thought  it should  have looked 
into Ms Ss financial circumstances in more  detail before agreeing to the remaining loans. 
And he thought  that if it had carried out proportionate checks, it would  have realised that 
Ms S couldnt afford loan 5. So he recommended that Sunny refund all interest and charges  
that Ms S paid on loan 5, with interest  on the refund.  And he said it should  remove  any 
negative information  about that loan from Ms Ss credit file.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  So the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Sunny was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Ms S 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Ms S was borrowing,  and her lending history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
Ref: DRN64146652Sunnys told us about the checks that it carried out before agreeing  to the loans. It says it 
asked Ms S for details of her monthly  income and expenditure. And it took into account 
information from credit reference agencies to ensure that she could repay the loan without 
undue difficulty over the term of the loan. Ive not seen the full results of the credit  checks. 
But from the information thats  been  provided, Im not aware of adverse information  that 
I think should have  caused Sunny concern about  lending to Ms S.
When Ms S applied for the first loan, she told Sunny her monthly take-home pay was 
£1,000, and her regular  monthly outgoings were £600. Sunny was entitled  to rely on that 
information in the absence of anything to suggest that it might not be reliable. The highest 
repayment due on the loan was £56.88.  Based on the information Ms S provided, Im 
satisfied that it would have looked  to Sunny as if shed be able to afford the monthly  
repayments relatively comfortably. And I dont think it was at fault in agreeing  to the loan 
without carrying out more detailed affordability checks.
The highest  monthly instalment due on loan 2 was £66.67. Ms Ss declared monthly income 
remained at £1,000. And although she told Sunny that her regular monthly  expenditure had 
increased to £725,  it would  have looked as if shed  have enough left over each  month to 
make her loan repayments and meet  any one-off expenses.  So again, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of Sunny  to make  the loan without  carrying out more  detailed checks.
When Ms S applied for loan 3, she was still in the process of repaying  loan 2. The combined  
monthly repayments due on loans 2 and 3 amounted  to around £113. Its true that Ms Ss 
declared regular  monthly  expenditure had reduced to £500.  And on that basis  the loan would 
have appeared  to be easily affordable for her. But I think that the fact that she was applying 
to borrow again  before shed finished  repaying  her previous loan ought to have  prompted  
Sunny to look more  carefully at Ms Ss financial circumstances. 
As a minimum, I think Sunny should  have  asked Ms S specifically about any other  short-term  
loans she had outstanding at the time. So Ive looked at Ms Ss bank statements to see what 
its likely  that Sunny would have discovered if it had done so. Other than her existing loan 
with Sunny, it doesnt look as if Ms S had any other short-term loans outstanding at the time. 
So I think it would have  been reasonable for Sunny to conclude that loan 3 would be 
affordable to Ms S even  if it had carried out what I consider to be proportionate  checks.
More than two months passed between Ms S repaying loan 3 and applying  for loan 4. The 
highest repayment due on loan 4 was £72.97. And on the basis of the figures  that Ms S gave 
Sunny for her regular monthly income and expenditure, I accept that it would have looked as 
if shed be able to afford  the repayments  easily. But this was the fourth loan Ms S had 
applied to Sunny for in less than six months.  And again, I think  this ought to have prompted 
Sunny to ask Ms S specifically about any other short-term  loans  she had at the time.
I can see that by that stage, Ms S had loans outstanding with a couple  of other short-term 
lenders. But even taking into account the repayments due on those,  alongside the details 
she gave Sunny about her regular monthly  income  and expenditure, I dont think  Sunny was 
unreasonable to conclude  that the loan would be affordable for her. So I dont find that 
Sunny was at fault in making  loan 4.
Ref: DRN64146653Loan 5 was the fifth loan Ms S had applied to Sunny for in little over six months. It was the 
highest amount  shed  applied to borrow. And at the point when she applied, she was still 
repaying loan 4. Taking everything into account, I think Sunny ought to have been  
concerned that Ms Ss finances might not be as healthy as her income and expenditure 
figures suggested. And I think  it should have taken  steps to verify the information 
independently.
Again, Ive looked at Ms Ss bank statements, to see what  its likely  that better checks would 
have shown Sunny.  It looks  as if Ms Ss monthly  income was higher  than the £1,000 shed 
told Sunny  about.  But her regular monthly  expenditure  and existing short-term loan 
commitments were  also higher. And they wouldnt  have  left her with enough  money to make 
the repayments on loan 5. So as a responsible lender, I dont think Sunny would have made 
loan 5 if it had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks.
There was a gap of a few weeks between  the date when Ms S repaid loan 5, and when she 
applied for her final loan.  Loan 6 was significantly bigger  than any of the previous loans, and 
the monthly repayments were around  £183.  Taking this into account, alongside the number 
of loans Ms S had then taken from Sunny, I again think  that Sunny  should have 
independently checked the information that Ms S gave  it about her financial situation before  
agreeing to lend.  But even if it had done  so, from what  Ive seen from Ms Ss bank  
statements, I dont think Sunny would have been  unreasonable to conclude  that she could 
afford the loan.
As it was Ms S didnt manage  to make her first few monthly repayments on loan 6, and in 
May 2016, Sunny sold the debt.  At that point, Ms S hadnt paid any interest or charges on 
loan 6.
So having  considered each loan in turn, I find that Sunny  shouldnt  have made  loan 5.
putting things right
To put things right, Elevate Credit International  Limited (trading as Sunny) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Ms S paid on loan 5;
pay interest on those refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Ms Ss credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN64146654my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Elevate Credit  International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6414665