K820x#14complaint
The Administrator of the Estate of Mrs C complains that Nationwide  Building  Society  
shouldnt have given  Mrs C two personal  loans or, on two different occasions,  increased the 
limit on her credit card. The Administrator, Mrs A, says Mrs C couldnt afford any of this 
lending. She wants  Nationwide to write off the outstanding debt. 
background
Mrs C took out a credit card account  with Nationwide in 2012. In January 2016  she took out 
a loan with Nationwide for £5,000.  In June 2016  she took out a further  loan with the society 
for £3,000. Mrs C told Nationwide in January  2018 she was struggling to make the payments 
due on her credit card. It agreed not to charge any interest on her account for six months. 
Sadly, Mrs C passed away in April 2018.
Mrs A, who is also Mrs Cs daughter, then contacted Nationwide  saying it shouldnt have 
given the two loans to Mrs C. Mrs A said her mothers only income  was state  benefits  and 
she couldnt afford the repayments. 
Nationwide rejected this complaint. In summary  it said: Mrs C passed all its lending checks; 
the state benefits she received were  within its acceptable income; and she didnt miss a 
payment on either loan account. 
Mrs A wasnt  happy with this response. She brought the complaint to our service.  Mrs A 
confirmed she also wanted us to look at Nationwides  decision to give Mrs C a credit card as 
well as its decision to give her the loans. 
Nationwide didnt give its consent for us to look into the sale of the credit  card in 2012.  It said 
any complaint about this had been  made too late as set out in the rules our service must 
follow. Nationwide did agree that we could look into two increases in the credit card limit. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint.  She also thought we couldnt  look at the 
sale of the credit card as this part of the complaint  had been made too late, so it didnt fall 
within our jurisdiction. 
The adjudicator looked at the credit card limit increases and the sale of the two loans. Again 
in summary, she thought  Nationwide hadnt  made an error when deciding to increase  the 
credit card limit and to give Mrs C the two loans. 
Mrs A didnt accept the adjudicators view. She made numerous points, including: Mrs C had 
previously been  made  bankrupt;  another  of Mrs Cs daughters had been paying  off the credit 
card for four years; Mrs C had health  problems which meant Nationwide shouldnt have lent 
to her; items  of credit were missing from Mrs Cs credit file so how could Nationwide have 
done a proper financial background check;  and; some  of Mrs Cs benefit  payments were 
subject to review and could be revoked at any time. 
Mrs A also didnt accept the adjudicators view that we couldnt look at the sale of the credit  
card in 2012. This meant  one of my fellow ombudsmen had to decide whether or not this 
part of the complaint fell within our jurisdiction. Her decision was that we couldnt look at this 
aspect of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN67262012As Mrs A didnt accept  the adjudicators view about  Nationwides decision to increase Mrs 
Cs credit  card limit and to give her two loans, this complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. To be clear, as my fellow ombudsman has issued a decision confirming we 
cant look at the 2012 sale of the credit card, I wont be commenting any further  on this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
First, I would like to offer my sincere condolences to the family  of Mrs C. I know its been 
some time since she passed away in April 2018, but I do appreciate what a difficult  time this 
will have been for her family  and I know those difficulties are still present today.  But in 
reaching my decision in this case,  I have to put aside my natural feelings  of empathy and 
consider the case  impartially and fairly. 
Also, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail and in my own 
words. Mrs A has raised  numerous issues around  why she feels Nationwide shouldnt  have 
lent to her mother. Im not going to respond  to all these points individually. No discourtesy  is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think is the key issues  here:  Were 
Nationwides decisions to increase Mrs Cs credit card limit, and to give her two loans,  fair 
and reasonable? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill now turn to Nationwides decision to increase Mrs Cs credit limit. Due to the age of this 
account, the Society has only been able to give us limited information  about it. The increases 
happened in January 2015 and again in July 2015. Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
for this account. Im satisfied these allow Nationwide to change the credit limit at any time. 
Nationwide has told us that when it proposes  an increase to a credit card limit, if it doesnt  
hear from the card holder  accepting  the increase, the limit will remain  unchanged.  It has also 
told us that Mrs C fell within its credit risk appetite at the time. I accept this was the case.  I 
can see that at the time of the limit increases, regular payments were being  made  to the 
account, it was up to date and hadnt  been in arrears. 
The available evidence doesnt  show me that Nationwide should have been aware that 
Mrs C was in any financial difficulty.  Taking  all this into account,  I cant say that Nationwide  
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it increased the limit on her credit  card.  
Mrs A has sent us evidence that another of Mrs Cs daughters had been  paying £25 a week  
to the credit  card account. But I dont think that a regular, relatively small payment for this 
amount should  have  led Nationwide to think Mrs C was in financial difficulty. 
Mrs A told us these payments totalled around £5,000. She says this is enough to have paid 
off the credit  card account. But thats  not quite right. If Mrs C had stopped using  the card, 
these payments could  have gone some way to clearing the account. But thats not what 
Ref: DRN67262013happened. Mrs C continued to use her credit card to make further purchases up until she 
spoke to Nationwide January 2018. 
During this call she told Nationwide  she couldnt  afford the payment on her credit card 
account. In this situation, the relevant regulations require  the Society to treat Mrs C in a 
positive and sympathetic  way. Im satisfied it did this by agreeing to freeze the interest  on 
her account  for six months to give her some breathing space.  In the circumstances  here, I 
dont think Nationwide  has done  anything wrong  in relation to the credit  card account.
Ill now move  on to Nationwides decision to give Mrs C two personal loans. As with the 
decision to give her a credit card, there are no set or prescribed checks  that Nationwide  
needed to do before agreeing to the loan applications. The applicable  regulations require a 
lender to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness check that is proportionate to the 
circumstances. 
Mrs C applied for the first loan on-line in January 2016. This was for £5,000. At the time she 
completed details  about  both her income  and her outgoings. Ive seen evidence that 
Nationwide did a manual check to confirm  that the information Mrs C gave about her income 
was correct. I know Mrs A feels very strongly  that Nationwide  was wrong to take all of 
Mrs Cs state  benefits into account.  She told us that part of these  benefits  werent  
guaranteed as they were  subject to regular review and could be revoked at any time. 
Ive looked at part of Nationwides lending criteria.  From this I can see that it considered the 
benefits Mrs C was receiving were acceptable types of income. And I would point out here 
that its not my role to stipulate what  income  Nationwide will or wont  accept when making a 
lending decision.  Thats entirely up to its own individual lending criteria and risk appetite. 
Ive also thought about Mrs Cs outgoings. In her on-line application she said she had around 
£5,000 of credit card debt. I know that Nationwides  credit  searches showed she had £5,162 
of card debt. This is entirely consistent  with what Mrs C had said. 
While the historic credit searches from 2016 are no longer available. Ive seen a credit report 
from January 2019. Included in this report are a bank  account, mail order accounts,  credit 
cards and a mobile  phone account. The individual account information goes back over a six- 
year period  to at least the start of 2013. All the accounts are up to date and would have been 
in January 2016 when the first loan was agreed. There  are no missed  payments showing on 
any of the accounts.  
I can also see the loan was being used  to consolidate one of Mrs Cs existing credit cards 
that had a balance of just under  £2,900.  At the time the monthly  payment on this card was 
around £131.50. The repayment on the loan was £92.16 a month  nearly £40 lower. 
I can see that Nationwide checked Mrs Cs income, checked her outgoings and checked the 
repayment history on her existing debts.  It could see she was making all the payments on 
her outstanding credit, and the proposed  loan would reduce her outgoings by around £40 
each month  while still leaving over £2,000 of the loan proceeds. So, I think  it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide  to think Mrs C could afford the loan repayments.  In these 
circumstances Im satisfied that its creditworthiness  check was reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Mrs C applied for a further £3,000 on-line around 6 months later. In the information about her 
existing debt I can see she said she had around  £2717 of card debt.  Nationwides credit 
Ref: DRN67262014checks confirmed this amount as £2,732.  Again, this is consistent  with what Mrs C had said.  
Its also in line with card debt figure from earlier that same year after taking into account the 
credit card that had been repaid. 
I can also see that Nationwide  verified  the accuracy Mrs Cs stated income by checking  it 
against the income being paid into her current account with the Society.  It could also see 
from the current account that the previous credit card had indeed been repaid in January 
using the first loan.  
This new loan was also to be used for consolidation.  Given  that the loan was for £3, 000 and 
Mrs C had around £2,700 of card debt, I dont think this would or should have rung any 
alarm bells with Nationwide. It could see that payments were being correctly  made  on the 
earlier loan and also on its credit  card account.  
Im satisfied that once  again Nationwide checked  Mrs Cs income, looked at her outgoings  
and her repayment history  on her existing debts. And again, I dont think  there  was anything 
here that should  have indicated to Nationwide that Mrs C wouldnt be able to afford the 
monthly repayments of £62.07 on the new loan. 
Mrs A has told us that Mrs C had previously been  declared bankrupt, although its not clear 
to me when this was. She says Nationwide shouldnt have lent to Mrs C because  of this. But 
theres nothing to stop a finance provider from lending to a previous bankrupt  especially if 
the bankruptcy happened some years  earlier. I think a persons more recent credit history is 
likely to have more  relevance than a historic  bankruptcy. And its for individual  lenders, not 
our service,  to decide to whom and on what terms its willing  to lend. 
Mrs A has provided evidence of Mrs Cs health problems and that these were connected to 
her being  in financial difficulty. To protect  the privacy  of the family, I wont  go into the details 
of these health issues. But theres  nothing  in the available evidence  that shows Nationwide 
was, or should have  been aware  of these. It follows, that I cant expect it to have taken these 
into account when  reaching its lending decisions.  
Mrs A has also questioned how lenders can make a proper lending decision when not all of 
Mrs Cs outstanding credit is showing up. I would point out here that there are several main 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) in the UK. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  confirms theres no requirement  under  data 
protection law for lenders  to report credit data to all the different CRAs. Its up to the lender 
to decide which CRA  they want to use, if any. 
Similarly, its up to the lender to decide  which CRAs to use when making its credit  
assessment. As Ive said above, the credit searches carried out by Nationwide when  making 
the lending decisions  here are no longer available. But, also as above, I can see its records  
show the credit card debt declared by Mrs C during both loan applications was consistent 
with the information showing on those searches. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that Nationwide carried  out reasonable credit 
worthiness checks that were proportionate to Mrs Cs circumstances. Having done so, Im 
also satisfied that Nationwides  decision to increase Mrs Cs credit card limit, and to give her 
two loans, was fair and reasonable,  and there  was no reason for it to think  that the 
repayments wouldnt be affordable to her. 
Ref: DRN67262015my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A, on behalf  of 
the Estate  of Mrs C, to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6726201