K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr F payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
Im only looking at the way the PPI was sold to Mr F. Hes also told us hes unhappy  
Nationwide didnt tell him about the PPI when he was having his home  repossessed.  Mr F 
would have to take that up as a separate matter  with Nationwide  before  we could look into 
that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  18 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can 
be difficult to know how much weight  to put on what they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr F has said the PPI was added without  his knowledge; and that, if hed known he had PPI, 
he would  have claimed on it a few years  later when he was unemployed. He said that he lost 
his home  with serious consequences for him and his family. 
Nationwide says that, at the time,  its policy was to make PPI compulsory for mortgages like 
Mr Fs  that is where the value of the mortgage was more than 95% of the property value.  It 
has sent evidence  that its mortgage  application  form said this. Its also sent evidence that it 
would have sent Mr F statements showing that mortgage protection payments  were being 
taken from his account. 
Often we would say its wrong for a bank adviser to tell customers PPI is compulsory  but 
that is only when  that is untrue, and the customer does have a choice to take the mortgage 
without PPI. But, in a case such as this, Nationwide  is entitled to make  PPI a condition  of the 
mortgage, and it is then up to the customer to decide if they want to get a mortgage  from a 
different lender. As long as Nationwide made clear that PPI was a condition of the mortgage,  
it doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN63681772I think its more likely than not that Nationwide did tell Mr F that PPI was compulsory   
although it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr F doesnt now remember,  or even if he didnt  at the 
time give it much thought,  as it wasnt something he had to decide on  its quite likely he 
just looked at the overall amount hed have to pay out each month to get the mortgage.  
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F as being particularly suited to his individual  
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It would have 
been for Mr F to decide whether it was suitable. But, even if it had made  a recommendation, 
I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in his circumstances at the time. He 
was eligible for the insurance, and finding  yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  Mr F was self-employed and so not entitled  to employer sick pay or 
redundancy payments. And it seems he didnt have other means to fall back  on to pay the 
mortgage. 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have  affected  
whether Mr F took the mortgage with the compulsory PPI. I say this because  the potential  
benefits were useful in his employment  situation. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mr F would have  been affected  by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6368177