K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about how The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) and its agents handled his claim on his home insurance policy following an escape  
of water at his home.
background
Mr B had a home insurance policy with NFU.  In January 2019 he returned home to find there  
had been a leak from his dishwasher  causing damage to the property. He made a claim on 
the policy.
NFU sent its contractor to inspect the property and drying commenced. However Mr B was 
unhappy with the service  provided by the contractor and after less than a week,  asked that 
they leave and not to return.  He said they had damaged  furniture they had moved and left 
items blocking access to upstairs. He also said they had taken a box of latex gloves and 
some foreign  currency. 
NFU apologised and arranged for the latex gloves to be returned  and the dryer  to be 
collected. Although  it said there wasnt enough  evidence to say the currency had been 
stolen. It assigned new contractors to finish the job. 
When the new contractors  attended  the site they found that the previous ones had disturbed 
thermoplastic floor tiles which often contain  asbestos. The new contractors arranged for 
asbestos test to be carried out and the tiles tested positive.
During this assessment cracks were  discovered that indicated there may be subsidence at 
the property. Mr B said this hadnt  been present before the escape of water, so must have 
been caused by the leak. NFU confirmed it would look into this to see if it would form part of 
the claim.
At the end of February  Mr B visited his property and found broken asbestos tiles and dust all 
over the house.  He complained to NFU and asked that these contractors dont return to his 
property. 
New contractors were agreed and they cleaned up the property, completed the drying  and 
compiled a report about the cracks.  Based on this NFU said it couldnt rule out the 
subsidence being affected by the escape  of water. It therefore agreed to cover  the damage  
from the leak and the subsidence under  one claim.  
Mr B made a complaint about the service he had received from NFUs agents so far. He was 
also unhappy about having to pay an excess for the subsidence claim as he felt it had been 
caused by ineffective drying  by the first contractors.
NFU partially upheld the complaint. It agreed that its contractors hadnt provided the service 
it would  expect. It also explained that although  an excess  would be payable  as the 
subsidence and escape of water  were being dealt with under one claim,  it would only be 
subject to one excess. NFU provided a cheque  for £750 compensation to make  up for the 
distress and inconvenience that had been  caused  by its agents. 
Following this NFU obtained a number of quotes  for rectifying the subsidence at the 
property. It concluded  that the subsidence could be resolved  by underpinning the extension. 
Ref: DRN65009572Mr B didnt agree with this, he thought underpinning would mean his house would decrease  
in value and he would  struggle to sell it. He was also unhappy with the third contractors and 
that issues with the claim had meant  he had been  contacted while on holiday..  He made a 
further complaint  to NFU
NFU upheld the complaint. It offered £600  compensation for the delay in responding to his 
most recent complaint and the service provided by the latest contractors. Further  it agreed  to 
waive the £1,050 excess for a subsequent theft claim as a gesture of good will. However 
NFU said that rebuilding  the extension wasnt necessary  as underpinning would resolve the 
problem.
Mr B disagreed as he said underpinning the property would affect any future re-sale of the 
property. And as the subsidence was caused by the escape of water,  NFU should rebuild the 
extension. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number  of complaints throughout the claim.  Im pleased  to see that some  
have now been  resolved.  As this is an informal service, I havent responded to every  point  
raised in each complaint. I have only addressed what I consider to be the key outstanding 
issues. However I want to reassure Mr B that I have considered all the points he raised when 
reaching my decision.
Compensation
From looking  at the timeline  of the claim  and all correspondence provided, I can see there 
have been a number of problems. NFU had to provide three different contractors,  following  
poor service provided by the last. And each contractor has caused Mr B to complain.
I agree  this would have  increased the distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced 
throughout the claim. It also would have  been  likely to have had an impact  on how quickly 
the claim could conclude. As each change meant a new inspection of the property.  This 
would have extended the inconvenience for Mr B. 
I can also see that Mr B has had to repeatedly contact NFU in order  to rectify  the problem 
with its agents, including while he was on holiday.  Claims for escape  of water and for 
subsidence can be stressful,  but I agree that the stress experienced by Mr B was made 
worse by the service  provided by NFUs  agents.
NFU has accepted that the service provided by its agents should have been better. And it 
has offered a total of £1,350 compensation for poor service, across its three final response  
letters. Further it waived the £1,050  excess on a theft claim with it as a gesture of good will. 
This is in line with what I would have recommended. So although I agree NFUs agents 
caused Mr B additional distress and inconvenience,  I think  this is a fair amount to make  up 
for this. 
Further, NFU has been  proactive  in resolving matters as they arose and has taken action to 
replace contractors quickly, when Mr B brought problems  to its attention. So although there 
Ref: DRN65009573were a number of problems caused by its agents,  I think NFU has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in its response to those. So I wont require it to do anything  further.
Subsidence repairs
NFU has agreed to include the repairs to damage caused by subsidence as part of the claim 
for escape of water. It has offered to cash settle  the claim based on underpinning  it says is 
required in the propertys extension. Mr B doesnt agree that this is sufficient, he says NFU 
should rebuild  the extension. 
In cases involving subsidence,  we would expect an insurer to provide a repair  that is 
effective and long-lasting. It is very unusual that the rebuild of a building  or part of a building 
would be necessary to achieve a long-lasting repair. This will usually only be necessary 
where the subsidence is so severe  that other measures  would be unlikely to fix the problem. 
Underpinning is a substantial repair that aims  to increase the depth of the foundation of the 
building. So this will usually provide an effective and long-lasting repair.
NFUs contractors produced a report which recommended that underpinning would  resolve 
the subsidence. NFU went on to request  quotes for both underpinning  and rebuilding  the 
extension, so I can see this is something  it considered. However it concluded underpinning  
would be sufficient.
As underpinning was recommended by NFUs expert, and is a substantial repair itself, I think  
it is likely  to be sufficient to fix the problem. I therefore think it was fair for NFU to follow  the 
recommendation in its contractors report  to underpin the property rather  than rebuild. 
Mr B says that underpinning the property will cause  him a number of problems  including 
reduced value  and difficulties re-selling. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest  that this will 
be the case. However even if I had, the insurance  policy doesnt provide cover  for this. The 
policy will provide cover for repairs following an insured peril, in order to fix the damage  
caused. But this doesnt include the impact on the sale or value of the property. So we would 
expect NFU to make  sure that any repairs are effective, long lasting  and proportionate  to the 
damage. But not to ensure the overall  value of the property  is maintained.
Mr B feels  the subsidence was caused  by the poor drying carried out by NFUs  first 
contractor, so says it is NFUs responsibility  to rectify this by rebuilding the extension. 
The report  provided  by NFUs contractor that examined the subsidence says that the escape 
of water may have  had an impact. However  Ive seen no evidence  that actions taken by 
contractors had any affect. Even if it had, I would still expect the outcome to be the same  
that NFU provide  an effective and long lasting  repair to the subsidence. And I think 
underpinning will do that.
For these reasons I think the settlement  offered  by NFU to repair  the subsidence is fair and 
reasonable and I wont  require it to do anything further or differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I wont require The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance  Society  
Limited to do anything further  or differently.
Ref: DRN65009574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6500957