K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to AXA FRANCE IARD  
as the seller in my decision.
Mr F says AXA FRANCE IARD mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1999 alongside  a store  card for a mens  
clothing retailer. PPI was sold on the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr F said, in summary,  he wasnt  aware  PPI 
was optional. He said it wasnt explained to him and he wasnt  given any information 
about how much it would cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  
is either incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what  I think  is most  
likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA FRANCE IARD had to make Mr F aware  that the PPI was optional and get his 
consent before adding  PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the card and policy  was 
taken out on the phone. AXA FRANCE IARD  no longer has a copy of the call recording 
from the time of sale. Businesses often only keep records for around six years, and this 
PPI policy  was sold much longer ago than that. 
Ive taken into account what Mr Fs told me he remembers  from the time of sale.  But, Im 
conscious this policy was sold around  20 years  ago and memories can fade over time. I 
dont have enough to fairly conclude that the optional nature of the policy  wasnt made  
clear to Mr F. So, I cant fairly uphold his complaint for this reason.
AXA FRANCE IARD didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F, so it didnt  have to check  if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr F got clear information  so he could make  and 
informed choice and decide if it was right for him. I cant  see that the PPI was inappropriate 
in his circumstances. 
Its possible the information AXA FRANCE IARD gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But, I cant see that it was inappropriate for him. He appeared eligible 
to take out the cover.
Ref: DRN63307162Mr F has told us he wouldnt  have got any sick pay from work and didnt have any 
savings. So, I think PPI couldve  provided  him with valuable  protection  to ensure that his 
card repayments could be met if he wasnt working.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Fs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  As he couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy  offered,  I dont think having better information about  
these things wouldve  affected his decision take out PPI. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable and he couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant  see 
that he if he had been given clearer information  about the costs and benefits he wouldve 
declined the cover. 
I cant see that Mr F has lost out because  of anything that AXA FRANCE IARD did wrong, 
so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6330716