K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about what happened when he tried to take out some money at a branch of 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS).
background
Mr W complained  about what happened when he went into a branch of RBS,  and asked to 
take out £1,000 in cash. He said that hes previously  taken a lot of money out, to pay for 
property repairs, but this money was for a trip he was planning on taking  later that day. He 
said that he had a train to catch. 
Mr W said that the branch  wouldnt give him his money, and the police were called. He said 
that this was a quite  terrible  experience for him. He did eventually  get his money,  but he said 
that he had been kept in the branch  for two hours. 
Mr W said that hed complained, and received a letter from RBS about  this. He thought that 
this letter  belittled  what had happened to him. He wanted RBS to apologise to him, and he 
said that he wanted two members  of staff to be dismissed. 
RBS said that it has a protocol to follow when it thinks that someone is making withdrawals  
that are out of character for them.  And it said that it had followed this protocol in this case, 
because it was concerned that Mr W may have been pressurised into taking out this large 
amount of cash.  RBS said that was why it had called the police. It told us that it does  this 
because it has a duty of care to its customers, to make sure that they arent at risk of 
financial harm. 
When RBS wrote to Mr W, it said that it wanted  to pass on the apologies of its branch 
manager. The branch manager hadnt  intended to cause any offence or upset to Mr W, and 
he was sorry if that was how hed been  interpreted.  RBS also apologised to Mr W for any 
distress and upset that he had been  caused. 
When RBS wrote to us, it repeated its apologies  for any distress caused  to Mr W. It said that 
wasnt its intention.  It was only trying to protect  him. But RBS didnt think it had done 
anything wrong  by trying to protect Mr W. 
Out investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that RBS had acknowledged why this 
situation wouldve  caused Mr W distress, and that it had apologised. But our investigator 
said that she thought that RBS had followed the relevant process to ensure that Mr W and 
his money were kept safe. Our investigator  said that, looking at the circumstances, she 
thought it was reasonable for RBS to act in this way.
Our investigator also said that she wouldnt be recommending  that RBS dismiss any staff,  
because that was outside of our services remit. And because  she thought that what RBS 
had done was reasonable in these circumstances,  she wouldnt be recommending that RBS 
do any more in this case.
Mr W rang us to say that he didnt  agree.  He was extremely  upset  by what our investigator 
had said. He thought that we had missed  out part of his complaint. He wanted us to send 
him recordings of the calls he had made to us, so weve done that. 
Ref: DRN64856792Then Mr W wrote to us. He said that he had told the teller why he wanted  the money. He 
said that the teller  was about to pay him, when the branch manager intervened to stop the 
payment. He was then told to leave, without any apparent  reason,  and warned  that the 
branch manager  would call security. The police were then called. 
Mr W said that he had not unreasonably become animated because of the managers 
actions, which seemed to be entirely inexplicable. 
When the police turned up, they asked him questions to identify  himself,  and his money was 
then paid to him. 
Mr W said that he didnt remember the branch manager  giving  any explanation based on the 
banks protocol, or asking him at any stage if he was being pressurised by anyone to 
withdraw money. His recent withdrawals have all been for legitimate  purposes. And Mr W 
said that there was no effort to conduct the discussion in private, but he was humiliated  in 
front of other  bank customers.
Mr W wanted us to reconsider. 
Because Mr W hadnt agreed with our investigator, this case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I realise that this has been extremely upsetting for Mr W. But, like our investigator,  I think  
that what RBS has done  was done with the intention of helping Mr W. 
RBS has shared Mr Ws bank statements with our service, so we can see why it was worried 
about Mr W. Mr W has hardly used this account  in the past.  Over a very long period of time,  
the only withdrawals  have been  at first just two, then one, monthly direct debits. But, much  
more recently, Mr W has started to make  large cash withdrawals. Looking  at his statements, 
it does seem to me as if this is entirely out of character for Mr W.
Mr W has told us why hes taken this money  out. He said that previously he was having 
some work done on a property, and more recently  he was going  on a trip. He told us that 
hed told RBS he wanted the money for pleasure.  
Of course,  ultimately this is Mr Ws money.  But RBS said that it didnt want  him to be conned  
by someone else, and lose his money.  RBS has shown us why it would be concerned.  I think  
it was reasonable  for RBS to be concerned. And so I dont think  that RBS did anything  wrong 
if it initially refused to give this money  to Mr W. 
I know that Mr W has described the circumstances of RBSs  refusal  to give him this money.  
He said that RBS hadnt explained to him what it was doing,  and that he found it humiliating 
to be treated in this way. He also said that RBS hadnt offered him a private room  to wait in.
RBSs recollection of events is somewhat different to Mr Ws. I know that Mr W has told us 
that he became  animated, at the refusal  to pay him his money. It seems likely to me that the 
Ref: DRN64856793branch staff may have preferred to wait until a neutral third party,  in the form of the police, 
arrived and could ask Mr W any further questions.  I understand that did resolve the issue, so 
I think that was probably the best course of action in the circumstances. 
Mr W told us that he wanted RBS to apologise. I think that RBS has apologised, fully and 
repeatedly, for any distress that Mr W was caused. Mr W also wanted two staff members to 
be dismissed. Our investigator  has explained that our service doesnt  recommend that staff 
are dismissed from their roles, as that goes  beyond of our remit here.  
Ive thought carefully about everything that both sides have told us in this case. But the key 
point for me, is just how different  Mr Ws recent use of this account  has been. Looking  at the 
last few years, Mr W has never  previously taken this amount of money out, in cash, over 
such a short period of time. 
For those reasons, I think it was reasonable for RBS to be concerned about Mr W. And I 
think thats why the branch staff took further  steps, including  initially refusing to pay Mr W the 
money he wanted. 
Ive considered carefully the distress that Mr W has described. But, because I think that RBS 
was trying to act in what it genuinely thought was Mr Ws best interest, and because I think  it 
did its best not to increase the distress to him of what was always  going to be an upsetting 
event, I dont think that this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6485679