K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Ace Trade  Cars Limited declined  his claim to repair his car under his 
warranty policy. 
Reference to Ace Trade Cars in this decision includes  the acts and omissions  of its 
appointed agents. 
background
Mr D held a warranty policy with Ace Trade Cars, which covered certain parts  of his car for 
replacement or repair,  in the event of mechanical  breakdown. 
In June 2018, Mr D reported that his car was experiencing difficulty in starting, the brakes 
were noisy  and the fuel gauge was reading incorrectly. He took it to a repairer of his 
choosing, which for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as B. It was identified  by B that 
certain parts needed to be replaced, including the starter motor and the fuel sender unit. B 
advised Ace Trade  Cars of what repairs were needed and it first gave a quote for the fix of 
the starter motor. Ace Trade Cars authorised  this work to go ahead and the starter motor  
was replaced. 
In early July 2018,  B told Ace Trade Cars  that it had undertaken certain testing  and 
diagnosed that the fuel sender  unit also needed replacing. Again, it gave Ace Trade  Cars a 
quote for the cost of the remedial work and a discussion was had about  whether this 
particular part would  be covered under the policy. Evidently,  Ace Trade Cars  advised B that 
it would  confirm later that day whether the part would be covered. Mr D was also made 
aware of the work needed to his car. 
Its unclear what happened after this  but what we do know  is that the fuel sender unit was 
replaced, with all surrounding parts reassembled so that the car was back  in working 
condition. Later the same  day, B spoke with Ace Trade Cars  again and it was pointed  out 
that an inspection  of the fuel sender unit was needed by one of its appointed engineers.  At 
that point, B explained that the car had already been  fixed  and would be collected  by Mr D 
that weekend.  A few days later,  Ace Trade Cars told B that an engineer would  be in touch to 
arrange the inspection. However, when the engineer found  out that the fuel sender unit had 
already been replaced, he said there  was no point in the inspection  going ahead. 
B pointed  out that it had kept the original, faulty part and this could be inspected. But        
Ace Trade  Cars subsequently told Mr D that the cost of the fuel sender unit would  not be 
covered under the policy, in light of remedial work  going ahead when it hadnt  been 
authorised. Instead,  Ace Trade Cars would only cover the cost of the parts it had authorised. 
Mr D thought this unfair, because he believed the fuel sender unit is a part covered  
according to the terms of the policy. On 7 July 2018,  hed paid B a total of £1,667.88 for the 
repairs, which included payment for the fuel sender unit replacement and associated testing 
and labour costs.  He had thought this would be reimbursed by Ace Trade Cars  but it 
maintained its decision  to refuse this part of the claim. 
Ref: DRN62249052Mr D remained  unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into it and thought Ace Trade Cars could not fairly  rely on being  unable 
to assess the part in question  when  in fact this part had been retained by B and couldve 
been inspected. Therefore, he wasnt convinced that Ace Trade Cars position had been  
prejudiced. He recommended the claim be reconsidered, in respect of the fuel sender unit. 
Mr D accepted this recommendation. 
Ace Trade  Cars does  not agree. Firstly, it does not accept that this case is within  our 
services jurisdiction, as it thinks that this policy is not a contract of insurance. 
Notwithstanding this, it reiterates that its been  denied an opportunity to accurately evaluate  
the fuel sender  unit, preventing it from carrying out certain tests such  as diagnostics. It 
claims either  B went ahead  with the work on its own accord, or Mr D gave  his authority. 
Further, it considered  the part to have  stopped  functioning because  of wear and tear  which 
is excluded from cover. 
Because Ace Trade Cars does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that it should be upheld  but Ive decided on a slightly different  way for           
Ace Trade  Cars to put things right.  Ill explain why. 
As the regulator,  The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) sets out the jurisdiction of our
service in the DISP  Rules part of the FCA Handbook. One of the requirements of DISP  is
that our service can only consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission of a firm
carrying out a regulated  activity (or some other activity expressly listed  in DISP 2.3.1).
An activity  is a regulated activity if its specified  in The Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (RAO). Part II of the RAO specifies "effecting" and
"carrying out" a contract of insurance  as regulated activities. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance
Manual indicates  that the best description of what constitutes a contract of insurance  comes
from the authority  of the Court  of Appeal, in its decision  in the case of
Prudential Insurance  Co v Inland  Revenue Commissioners [1904] 2 K.B. 658. This case,
amongst other things,  decided the essentials of an insurance contract.
In summary,  it considered  this to be that an insurer, in return  for prior payment (often
referred to as a premium), provides the insured with the service it agreed to undertake
when the contract  was concluded  in the event of the materialisation of a risk it agreed to
cover. This risk is a defined event  in the contract,  which has an occurrence that is uncertain 
or sudden  and is adverse to the interests  of the insured. 
Having considered the terms of Mr Ds agreement with Ace Trade  Cars, I can see that he 
paid around £600 as an annual premium for the benefit of this policy. In return, certain  
remedial work would be undertaken on his car in the event of mechanical breakdown. Such  
cover is defined in the terms of the contract, including the actual and sudden mechanical 
failure or breakdown of certain parts. Which, in my view, undoubtedly represents a 
corresponding benefit for the premium paid. 
Ref: DRN62249053I also conclude that this fortuitous (or in other words uncertain or sudden) occurrence of a 
peril is wholly contrary to the interests of Mr D, because  it necessitates  repair or replacement 
to resume the normal  function of his car. Therefore, its my judgment that this policy  has all 
the key features of a contract  of insurance. It follows that this is a regulated activity thats 
within our services jurisdiction. 
Whether the fuel sender unit is included in the terms of cover  has not been disputed  by     
Ace Trade  Cars. Rather, it claims that it ought to have been afforded the opportunity  for an 
appointed engineer to determine whether the fault had suffered mechanical breakdown. 
According to the policy,  mechanical breakdown is defined as the actual and sudden 
mechanical failure or breakdown of an item listed under  the What  is Covered' section which  
results in the sudden  stoppage of its normal functions and which  necessitates repair  or 
replacement to resume those functions. The policy goes on to say that failure or breakdown 
which ultimately results from wear and tear is excluded from cover.  
So, Ace Trade Cars decision to refuse the claim is because it says it was unable to fully 
assess whether wear and tear was in fact the reason behind  the reported  fault,  because  it 
was unable to witness the fuel sender unit while in situ. Its a condition  of cover that any 
occurrence giving rise to a claim must follow  the How to make a Claim  procedure   and 
this process strictly stipulates that no work of any description should be carried out before it 
gives prior authorisation.  Therefore,  Ace Trade Cars is relying on this condition not being 
met and believes its position  was prejudiced.  
I acknowledge that the work going ahead does  not appear in keeping  with the terms of the 
contract. As I see it, its not entirely clear who gave the go ahead for the repairs  to be 
completed  but I do recognise that the documentary evidence suggests  that it was not     
Ace Trade  Cars. However, for the avoidance  of doubt, I do not find that this needs to be 
determined in order for me to fairly decide  the complaint. 
I say this because,  its a general principle of insurance that if an insurer  doesnt think  it 
should pay a claim because a condition applies  its then for that insurer to show  it can fairly  
rely on that condition. So, although a term of the contract may have been  breached   that 
does not necessarily mean the claim should inevitably be turned down. For me to safely 
conclude that its fair and reasonable for Ace Trade Cars to rely on the aforementioned  
condition, I must be satisfied that the breach is material to the loss. Ive therefore reached 
my decision  on the complaint with this in mind.  
It strikes me that the terms of the contract  allowed Mr D to approach  a repairer,  such as B, to 
undertake necessary testing and repairs. We know that Ace Trade Cars authorised other 
work to start on Mr Ds car, which leads me to believe that it did not distrust  Bs diagnosis. 
Indeed, when B confirmed the cause  of mechanical breakdown  for the starter  motor,         
Ace Trade  Cars permitted  the prescribed work to be carried  out. I have also not been  
persuaded that, as a professional repairer, B was in any way incapable  of detecting  a fault 
with Mr Ds car and establishing an appropriate fix. Nor, has Ace Trade Cars brought  to my 
attention any lack of qualifications or training in the relevant field.  Therefore, I see no reason 
to doubt the proficiency of Bs opinion on Mr Ds car. 
Ref: DRN62249054In this case, Ace Trade Cars was told by B that the fuel sender unit had been identified as 
the problem. To determine what work  to conduct,  B had first performed a number of tests 
including diagnostics. This data indicated that this particular part had stopped  functioning as 
normal. Upon replacing it, the car returned to working condition with the fuel gauge reading  
properly. So, its evident that the appropriate remedial action was undertaken  and Ive 
seen no conflicting  evidence that compels  me to think  otherwise. 
Ace Trade  Cars has submitted that it was not provided with diagnostic  evidence of an actual 
fault. Nonetheless, Im not persuaded that this information was unavailable or was restricted 
from being shared.  Rather, the documentary  evidence  suggests that both Mr D and B 
agreed for the original fuel sender unit to be retained so it could  be inspected  so Im not 
satisfied that other, supportive evidence would have  been in anyway withheld.  
Notwithstanding this, the contact notes provided  by Ace Trade  Cars indicate that this 
material was not requested.  Rather, its evident that Ace Trade Cars appointed engineer 
based their decision  not to review further information solely on a conversation with B. 
I cant say with any certainty what the outcome  of further investigations would have  been.  
But given the apparent  suitability of qualifications of B and its staff,  I dont  find it unlikely that 
its analysis couldve in some way resembled the testing Ace Trade Cars planned to carry 
out. Or, at least, equipping an engineer with this information could have  afforded  them  the 
benefit of making  more  of an informed decision about whether to inspect the removed part. 
Either way, a further inspection when it was available would have undoubtedly allowed      
Ace Trade  Cars the opportunity to assess Mr Ds entire claim with more  information  and 
within a reasonable amount of time since the remedial work was completed.  Its also entirely 
possible that this might have led to Ace Trade Cars maintaining its decision to turn down the 
claim anyway. 
Mr D was open to this inspection at the time, so that an independent engineer couldve had a 
more detailed look at whether the fault identified contravened the terms of cover.  Indeed, it 
strikes me that Mr D somewhat encouraged this to go ahead. This indicates to me that both 
he and B were confident that further assessment would have validated the fact that the part 
in question did suffer sudden  mechanical  breakdown. But it was Ace Trade Cars that 
decided against  this inspection and getting  more information to decide the claim  which  has 
led to the complaint needing to be decided at this point. 
In light of this, I reach my decision without Ace Trade Cars providing  this information, 
because I do not find it reasonable to expect this assessment to be carried  out at this late 
stage (not least because  I find it unlikely that the original part is still available  for inspection.) 
As I see it, Ace Trade Cars had ample  opportunity to validate  Mr Ds claim,  while  the part 
itself and/or accompanying evidence was still available.  Had it taken this opportunity to prove 
that the fuel sender unit had failed as a result of wear and tear, it could  have made a fair 
decision on the claim. Consequently,  Im not persuaded that its position was prejudiced.  
I must base my decision  on what I find fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of the
individual complaint, considering the evidence available. And Im not satisfied that Ace Trade  
Cars has sufficiently substantiated  that the fuel sender unit did fail or breakdown as a result 
of wear and tear  and as mentioned, the onus is on it to provide persuasive evidence  to 
support this. 
Therefore, I cannot safely conclude that Ace Trade Cars can fairly rely on the condition  that 
it has, because  Im not persuaded  that Mr D gaining prior authorisation would  have made a 
material difference to whether the claim should  be met. In other words, Im not satisfied that 
the breach of condition is material to the loss. 
Ref: DRN62249055With this in mind, I find the fair and reasonable outcome  to this particular complaint is for   
Ace Trade  Cars to deal with Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of 
the policy. Mr D paid B for the replacement of the fuel sender unit and associated  costs on          
7 July 2018. Due to the time hes been  without this money, Ace Trade  Cars should apply 8% 
simple interest to the amount  indemnified  from 7 July 2018 to the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and require Ace Trade Cars Limited to:
-deal with Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
-apply 8% simple interest  to the amount indemnified from 7 July 2018 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6224905