K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is that when HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) closed he foreign currency 
account, due to mistakes  and failures  in its systems, it caused her a financial loss. 
background
Mrs S lives overseas, and held a foreign  currency account with HSBC.  In 2018 HSBC  
decided to withdraw these sorts of accounts, so wrote to its customers giving notice and 
information as to what alternatives  they might have.  This included by which  means they 
wanted the balances in their accounts  paid out to them.
Mrs S said she didnt  receive any communications from HSBC  about this until it was too late. 
And that as they were  sent by international mail, there was a long delay between  the letters  
being issued and received. Mrs S says when  she realised  her account was showing a zero 
balance, on 27 February 2019 she and her husband called HSBC  to  ask what was going on. 
It was explained  to them that their foreign currency accounts had been closed, and they said 
they didnt want  HSBC to send them Sterling  £ cheques. They said they wanted bank 
transfers. 
But Mrs S says this request was ignored, and that after some further delay with international 
post, she received  a Sterling cheque, that when she cashed it meant  he lost out on a 
significant amount  of money due to the exchange rate and handling  fees. 
She was very unhappy with HSBCs actions, and wanted it to refund what  she lost.
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong, and didnt uphold the complaint. So Mrs S 
brought it to this service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and sought further info from both parties. He then 
decided that HSBC hadnt made mistakes, or treated Mrs S unfairly, so he wouldnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mrs S still didnt  agree. She remained adamant that HSBC didnt communicate effectively 
with her, and that she wasnt given the proper notice of the closure of his account. And she 
maintained that she and Mr S told HSBC not to send cheques, it did so anyway, which  
caused them  financial loss. 
She asked  for an ombudsmans  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im in agreement with our Investigator  that this complaint cant be 
upheld.
I know this will come as a great disappointment  to Mrs S, and I hope I can explain why I 
think this is a fair outcome  noting that my role is to be fair to both  parties, given  all the 
evidence available  to me.
Ref: DRN65637602In order for me to agree  that HSBC made mistakes, or that it directly caused  Mrs Ss 
financial loss, Id need to be convinced that it didnt give her sufficient notice of the account 
closure, and that it deliberately ignored her instructions and sent a Sterling  cheque, when 
there were other options available. 
Im afraid I havent been persuaded of either of these things. 
Im satisfied that the closure notice letters were  issued  correctly, and that Mrs S didnt 
respond by the deadline  given to ask that a cheque not be issued to her. By the time she 
called in February 2019, it was too late, so any request she had about  not being  issued a 
cheque couldnt  have been actioned  anyway.
Mrs S is very critical of HSBCs practice of sending international mail, which can be beset 
with delays, when  it could have contacted her by phone or email instead. While  I can 
understand the logic of this argument, our service isnt a regulator, and its not for me to tell a 
bank how to conduct its business  and communicate  with its customers. Thats  a matter  for 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 
There will be a number of reasons why HSBC chose  to communicate in the manner it did, 
and with certain matters  such as account  closures, I can see that an actual paper letter may 
be seen as the most official, secure and reliable  method. Even  if being  sent overseas. In 
addition, the account in question wasnt an online  account. Rather,  customers would have to 
call or visit a branch  to conduct their business. Further,  Mrs S wasnt  registered for internet 
banking, and HSBC  has told us it didnt send emails  as they wouldnt have been secure. I 
cant say any of this is unreasonable.
Mrs S is upset  that when  she and Mr S called HSBC on 27 February 2018, and asked for 
cheques not to be sent to them that this was done  anyway. Unfortunately,  theyd missed the 
clear deadline  that had been given in the previous closure notices to tell HSBC  about what 
they wanted it to do with their money,  so this became the legitimate  and forewarned   
default option. I cant criticise HSBC for this.
I can entirely understand why Mrs S is upset  that he lost so much  money  in the exchange 
from Sterling to her home currency, but on all the evidence I havent  been persuaded that 
this was HSBCs fault.
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563760