K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
However, in summary,  Sunny gave  Mr C 26 loans between March 2017 and June 2018. I 
provisionally concluded that Sunny shouldnt have  given him loans 9 to 26 because  the 
pattern of lending suggested Mr Cs borrowing was unsustainable by the point he applied for 
loan 9, and there was no or little improvement in his situation thereafter.
Mr C didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Sunny replied  to say that on reflection it 
thought it could have asked more  questions of Mr C before agreeing loan 14 and said it 
would make an offer from this loan onwards, but it didnt agree with me that there  was a 
pattern of unsustainable  lending by loan 9. Its points  could be summarised as follows:
It had calculated that Mr C had enough  disposable income to make  his repayments 
towards loan 9. It took the same  view for loans 10 to 13. On average Mr C only had 
to use 2% of his monthly income  to make his monthly repayments on those loans.
Mr Cs good repayment record on loans 9 to 13 demonstrated these loans had been 
sustainable. And just because  Mr C went on to borrow more loans from Sunny this 
didnt automatically  mean he was doing so in order  to repay  his existing Sunny loans, 
nor that Sunnys  assessment  of affordability had been inadequate.
My assumption that Mr C had a financial shortfall, or that this was caused by having 
to repay  existing debt,  wasnt supported by evidence.
The nature  of Sunnys product was that it allowed consumers to hold multiple loans 
at one time. Just because Mr C had taken nine loans in five months didnt mean  that 
a pattern of unsustainable lending had developed. Indeed, five months  was not long 
enough to establish  such a pattern.
There was no correlation between the amounts Mr C had repaid, and the amounts he 
then went on to borrow shortly  after.
The case  has now been returned to me to consider once  again. 
Ref: DRN62187472My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the additional points  Sunny  has made, but they dont change  my decision 
and I still think it was wrong to give Mr C loan 9 onwards, for the same  reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision. The FCAs rules  say that financial businesses  are supposed to learn 
from decisions made by this service, and I am aware that Sunny has received many final 
decisions on cases with similar  circumstances to Mr Cs, saying similar things to my 
provisional decision. Our approach to complaints  like Mr Cs is also set out on our website 
and has been  for some  time. 
Against this backdrop Im surprised Sunny has made the arguments  that it has in response  
to my provisional decision,  which are in many respects the same points it has made 
throughout Mr Cs case, albeit expressed  differently and in more detail. Im also disappointed  
at the approach Sunny appears to have  taken to Mr Cs complaint in general. Sunny began 
by stating that it had not done anything wrong in granting all 26 loans. After our adjudicator  
upheld Mr Cs complaint,  it said it would make him an offer in relation  to loans 22 to 26. Mr C 
didnt accept this offer, after which  Sunny said it would improve its offer to include loans 18 
to 21. When it received  my provisional decision, it said it would  also include loans 14 to 17. 
In light of this series of slowly-improving offers  Im concerned that Sunny appears to view 
Mr Cs complaint as a kind of bargaining exercise rather  than an opportunity to achieve a fair 
and reasonable outcome. 
The relevance of Mr Cs disposable income  as calculated by Sunny
I acknowledge that Sunny carried  out its own assessment of Mr Cs disposable  income 
before it granted him loans. It appears to have done  this through a combination of self-
reported income and expenditure figures,  and by making enquiries of a credit  reference 
agency. As I explained  in my provisional  decision, early on in a borrowing relationship  less 
thorough checks into a borrowers  ability to repay  a loan might be proportionate,  but there 
are certain factors which could suggest  more  thorough checks should be carried  out. These  
factors include a borrower returning for loans soon after borrowing  had been  repaid, and 
having a large  number  of loans over a relatively short  period  of time. Both of these factors  
apply in Mr Cs case and in view of them  I dont think relying chiefly  on Mr Cs self-reported 
income and expenditure was proportionate, certainly by the time he had applied for his ninth 
loan. In any event,  as I also explained  in my provisional decision, establishing whether a 
borrower can sustainably  repay their loans does not simply mean checking if they technically 
have enough money to make their repayments.
Overall Im not convinced  that Sunnys calculations of Mr Cs disposable  income are of much 
relevance here as I dont  think  its checks were thorough enough, certainly by the time Mr C 
applied for loan 9.
Mr Cs repayment history  and the reasons for his financial shortfall
Repaying a loan on time is not necessarily a sign of financial health,  although  of course  in a 
lot of cases it will be. But its not a factor which should be considered in isolation,  and its 
important to remember that repayments should be sustainable. I explained in my provisional  
decision what is meant by this. 
Ref: DRN62187473In my experience, repayment of lending followed very shortly by a request to borrow the 
same amount (or more)  can be a sign that a borrower is not able to make  their repayments 
in a sustainable way, and the more times a borrower repeats this behaviour,  the higher the 
likelihood that this is the case. When Mr C applied for his ninth loan, this was the fourth time 
he had exhibited this borrowing  behaviour.  Sunny has questioned  whether Mr C was coming  
back for more loans because repaying  existing borrowing was causing a shortfall  in his 
finances, or if there could have been some other reason. I think that whatever  the reason for 
Mr C having a shortfall, it seemed to be occurring on a regular basis  (suggesting he had a 
more serious, or long-term, underlying financial problem) and very shortly  after he had 
repaid previous loans. I think this is suggestive of repayment of the earlier loans  leaving  
Mr C short  of funds to meet his other  financial commitments, necessitating further borrowing 
to top up his finances.  But even if Im wrong and thats not the case, Mr C was clearly 
running out of money on a regular basis, and high-cost short-term  loans are not a suitable 
product for managing  a persistent cash-flow problem.
The lack of correlation between  Mr Cs repaid loans and the loans he went  on to borrow
I think Sunny  has missed the point here. As I understand it, Sunny has pointed  to the fact 
that the loans  Mr C took out after he had repaid existing borrowing, were  not the same  size. 
While this is true, I dont see how this helps  Sunnys  case: in general  the loans (or groups of 
loans) Mr C took out were  larger than the ones  he had just repaid. Increasing borrowing over 
time is more  likely to be a sign of a deteriorating financial situation than one which is 
improving.
The length  of time over which  Mr C borrowed
On this point, while  I appreciate  the point Sunny has made, I just dont agree with it. I think  
five and a half months  can be long enough  for a pattern of unsustainable lending to be 
established, depending on the other factors which are present.  I think  in this case  the way in 
which Mr C repeatedly came back for loans  after having repaid  previous borrowing was 
more important than the length of his borrowing relationship with Sunny, and in my view 
such a pattern can be established relatively  quickly.
Overall, Sunnys further points dont change my decision and I remain  of the view that it 
should not have given  Mr C loans 9 to 26.
How to put things right
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr C loans 9 to 26, so its not right that he should have had to 
pay interest, fees or charges on these loans, or have  them  affect his credit  file in a negative 
way. So to put things right I direct Sunny to:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards  interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN62187474C) Remove all outstanding interest,  fees and charges from any outstanding balance Mr C 
still has, and apply the amounts calculated in A and B to repay this balance, paying  the 
difference to Mr C.
D) The overall pattern  of borrowing for loans 9 to 26 means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse,  so these loans must be removed entirely from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and direct Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) to take the 
actions set out in the How to put things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN62187475COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr C complains Elevate Credit International Limited (trading  as Sunny) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr C took 26 loans with Sunny between March 2017  and June  2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about the first 13 loans  in the table below.
Loan Date  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 14/03/2017 05/06/2017 6 £500 £152.02
2 12/04/2017 28/04/2017 6 £50 £167.33
3 02/05/2017 05/06/2017 6 £100 £185.09
4 12/06/2017 30/06/2017 6 £50 £15.40
5 16/06/2017 01/09/2017 6 £400 £135.16
6 19/06/2017 30/06/2017 6 £50 £149.80
7 04/07/2017 31/07/2017 6 £50 £136.07
8 06/07/2017 31/07/2017 6 £150 £184.37
9 01/08/2017 01/09/2017 6 £250 £202.71
10 11/10/2017 31/10/2017 6 £100 £30.97
11 13/10/2017 31/10/2017 6 £100 £61.51
12 16/10/2017 31/10/2017 6 £150 £106.36
13 19/10/2017 31/10/2017 6 £150 £150.25
Loans 14 to 26 were taken between 5 December  2017 and 1 June 2018 and these  ranged between  
£50 and £500.  Many of the loans overlapped with one another. Mr C didnt fully repay  loan 25 and 
balance remained outstanding when he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into Mr Cs complaint.  They  thought that loans 6 to 26 shouldnt have 
been given to Mr C. Sunny  disagreed with the adjudicator  but has told us that it shouldnt  have given 
Mr C loans 18 to 26. It says it will therefore pay Mr C a refund of the interest paid for loans 18 to 24 
and loan 26 less Mr Cs outstanding  principal for loan 25, plus compensatory interest. Sunny says it 
will also remove  these loans from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C hasnt accepted this offer, so the complaint has now been referred  to me to consider. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Sunny had to assess Mr Cs applications for borrowing to check if he could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed  without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances.  Sunnys checks could have taken into account  a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments  and Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think  in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  less thorough checks  might have 
been proportionate.
Ref: DRN62187476But certain factors might  suggest Sunny should have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid  being especially  high (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having  these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, 
or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming  back  for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid  (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable  for Mr C.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether he 
technically had enough  money  to make  his repayments. Having enough money  to make the 
repayments could of course  be an indicator  that Mr C was able to repay his loans sustainably. But it 
doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the case. The FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC) 
states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue  difficulties and in particular, made on 
time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments  and without having  to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought  reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments without borrowing further,  then it follows that it should conclude those  repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context, and thought  
about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny should have realised  by the time he applied for loan 6, that Mr C would  
have struggled to repay further loans in a sustainable way. Sunny said it didnt think this was the 
case. Having considered Mr Cs borrowing  history I agree  that a responsible  lender wouldnt 
necessarily have had reason to think he was unable  to repay his loans  sustainably at the point he 
applied for loan 6. Ill explain  why.
Loan 6 was the sixth occasion in around 3 months that Sunny  had lent to Mr C. The loan amounts 
varied during this period and there didnt appear to be an established pattern  in the timing  of the 
loans. Earlier loans were lent several  weeks apart and, although  loans 4 to 6 were  taken out within  a 
week of each  other,  which could  have  indicated that Mr Cs underlying financial situation was 
deteriorating, I dont think there was quite enough evidence by this point to say that a pattern of 
unsustainable lending had become established. Considering what Mr C told Sunny about  his income 
and expenditure, the loans would also have appeared affordable, and there was nothing  in Sunnys 
credit checks which would have highlighted any other causes for concern.
Overall, I dont think the circumstances at this point should  have given  Sunny sufficient concern  to 
decline loan 6, or think  about whether it was reasonable to lend further loans. 
In my view a pattern  suggestive of unsustainable  lending had become established however,  by loan 
9. This pattern  involved Mr C repaying  one or more of his loans, then very quickly  replacing them with 
new loans of the same  or similar amounts. For example, loan 3 (£100) was taken out four days after 
repayment of loan 2 (£50). Loans 4 to 6 (a total of £500) were then all taken  out within a fortnight  of 
repayment of loans 1 and 3 (a total of £600).  And when  loans 4 and 6 (each  for £50) were  repaid,  
loan 7 (£50) and loan 8 (£150)  were then taken  out within a week.  Mr C then took loan 9 (£250) the 
day after hed repaid  loans  7 and 8. 
In my experience, a pattern  like this, once it has persisted for a while,  is usually a strong indicator that 
borrowing has become unsustainable: repayment of existing debt leaves a shortfall in the borrowers 
Ref: DRN62187477finances and, unable to meet their other  financial commitments, they quickly  borrow again. When Mr 
C applied for loan 9 he had now come  back for borrowing  very shortly after repaying  earlier loans on 
four occasions over four and a half months and, bearing in mind the high-cost short-term  nature of 
these loans, I think  this was enough for Sunny to have realised  Mr C was likely  borrowing in an 
unsustainable way.
Sunny, in its response to our adjudicator, referred to gaps in Mr Cs borrowing history.  I can see that 
Mr C repaid loans 5 and 9 together and then didnt borrow again for about a month.  A gap in 
borrowing can sometimes act as something of a breathing space for a borrower, but Im 
unconvinced that a break of a month is enough in this case to challenge  a reasonable assumption 
that Mr Cs borrowing had become unsustainable and continued to be so. I note that when Mr C did 
begin borrowing again, he took four loans  totalling £500 within eight days, and a similar  pattern 
persisted throughout  the rest of his relationship  with Sunny. Indeed,  any gaps in Mr Cs borrowing, 
where he didnt have a loan outstanding with Sunny, became less frequent and shorter  in length over 
time.
Overall, I think  that by loan 9, Mr Cs pattern of borrowing should have suggested to Sunny that he 
didnt just have a short-term  cash-flow problem, but a persistent shortage of funds  which he was 
borrowing in order to top up. High-cost, short-term loans of the kind offered by Sunny are not suitable 
for this kind of use. I think Sunny should have recognised that Mr C was likely  using the loans in this 
way and not lent to him any of loans  9 to 26.
Ref: DRN62187478How to put things right
Sunny shouldnt  have given Mr C loans  9 to 26, so its not right that he should have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges on these loans, or have them affect his credit file in a negative way. So to put 
things right I intend to direct Sunny to:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and charges on 
these loans.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr C which  were considered as 
part of A, calculated from the date Mr C originally  made the payments, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
C) Remove all outstanding interest, fees and charges from any outstanding balance Mr C still has, 
and apply the amounts calculated in A and B to repay this balance,  paying the difference  to Mr C.
D) The overall pattern  of borrowing for loans 9 to 26 means any information  recorded about them is 
adverse, so these should be removed  entirely from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny  to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to take the actions set out in the putting things right section 
of this provisional decision.
I now invite  both parties to reply to my provisional decision. They  should  make sure that any 
comments, evidence or arguments reach  me by 18 February 2020. I will then review the case again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6218747