K820x#14complaint
Mr B is complaining about Lloyds Bank  PLC on behalf of his business. He says it failed to 
give him appropriate advice because it didnt  recommend he take income protection  cover .
background
Following discussions with a Lloyds adviser,  Mr B took out a life and critical illness insurance 
policy through his business. It initially provided  cover  of £100,000, which was set to increase 
each year, for a term of 13 years.
Sadly, Mr B has since become ill and I understand hes now only able to work in a limited  
capacity. Because  the cause of his illness hasnt been diagnosed,  he hasnt been able to 
claim his critical  illness cover. He thinks income protection  cover  should have been 
recommended as well and that, by not doing so, the adviser failed to give suitable advice.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt the advice given was 
suitable at the time and that the documentation  showed  other  types of cover  had been 
discussed.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators assessment. He says the documentation shows  he 
rejected the offer of premium protection for his policy,  not income protection. Hes also 
pointed out that the sales  documentation recorded his objectives as follows:
Protection
Ensuring you have  money when you need it the most, whether ifs as a result of 
death, critical illness or being unable to work due to long term sickness.
By not recommending cover that pays out if he cant work due to long-term sickness, Mr B 
says the advice he received didnt meet all of his objectives.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for similar  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Bs health problems and I realise hes 
going through a very difficult time.
From the information provided, it looks like Mr B and his wife also met with a different 
adviser a couple  of months before the sale of this policy and may have taken out other  
arrangements in their own names,  rather than through their business. If they wish to pursue 
a complaint about that advice, theyd  need  to pursue that in a separate  complaint.
As Mr B has pointed out, I can also see the reference in the sales documentation to 
protection being declined  refers to premium  rather than income  protection.  
Turning back to the complaint thats  been  made,  Mr B received advice and the adviser  had a 
responsibility to make  sure any recommendation was suitable for his circumstances and 
needs.
Ref: DRN63791352Mr B was running his own business  and has confirmed he agrees with the sales  
documentation, which records  he wanted protection in the event of death, critical illness, or 
long-term sickness. The policy sold addressed his need for life and critical  illness protection 
and Mr B accepts this. His issue is that he feels income protection  should  have been 
recommended as well.
This advice  took place  a number of years  ago and its very difficult for me to be sure about 
what was and wasnt discussed. The sales documentation identified a number of different 
protection needs for Mr B, and it certainly  would  have been in the advisers interest to sell 
additional cover. But its important to recognise  that adding  income  protection  to the life and 
critical illness cover Mr B also wanted  would have  significantly increased the amount his 
business had to pay. The policy that was arranged cost nearly £200 per month  on its own.
If everyone had known what was going to happen  to him in the future, Im sure the adviser  
would have recommended  income protection and Mr B would have taken it. But at the time, 
there would have been a choice to make  about whether he was willing  and able to pay for 
protection against everything that could happen  to him in the future. On balance,  I dont think 
it was unreasonable to recommend he concentrate on life and critical illness at that time.
Ive reviewed the sales documentation and I think it clearly  explained  the circumstances in 
which Mr Bs cover  would  pay out. If he had felt income protection was particularly important 
and he was willing to pay an additional  premium (or forego some or all of his life and critical 
illness cover) to have  it, he had the opportunity to raise  this with the adviser at the time.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  and isnt what  Mr B was hoping  to 
hear. I do understand why he now thinks different recommendations should have been  
made. But based on the information available to the adviser at the time,  Im satisfied the 
advice he received was broadly suitable.
Finally, I think  its also worth pointing out that its not clear  at this stage that income 
protection cover would definitely have paid out if it had been  put in place. I say this because  
Mr B has told us hes been able to continue working,  albeit in a limited capacity. If he 
wouldnt have had a valid claim, I couldnt currently say hes been disadvantaged by not 
having this cover.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6379135