K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T are complaining that their adviser,  Mr D, advised  them  to withdraw money 
from an existing investment bond  and loan him the proceeds to help with business  costs. 
Unfortunately, the money wasnt repaid and it later became clear theyd been victims of 
fraud. 
At the time they withdrew money  from their bond and loaned money to Mr D, he was an agent of 
Truly Independent  Limited (Truly).  Mr and Mrs T believe  its responsible  for his actions.
background
Mr and Mrs T say theyd  dealt with Mr D since 2004. During that time, they made a number 
of payments to him. In return they expected to receive a series of regular payments, some  of 
which were made. It subsequently  turned  out Mr and Mrs T were  actually the victims of a 
complex fraud, for which Mr D was convicted  and imprisoned,  involving a number of his 
clients.
At the time of most of these payments, Mr D was an appointed representative  of another  
business, TenetConnect Services Limited  (Tenet). Those payments have been  the subject of 
a separate complaint about Tenet. This complaint concerns  the actions of Mr D after 20 
September 2013, when he became an agent (or registered individual) of Truly.
Mr and Mrs T say that in 2013,  they wanted  to withdraw £10,000 from a Friends  Life 
investment bond  to buy a motor home. When they were discussing this with Mr D, they say 
he suggested withdrawing a further  £10,000  and giving it to him. They  say he told them  he 
needed the money to help with the transition from his former business  to Truly.
In October  2013, Mr and Mrs T signed  a surrender instruction form to release £20,000 from 
their bond  and £10,000 of this was given to Mr D.
Mr and Mrs T say Mr D told them hed repay the money with interest at 5% per year over a 
period of two years.  It was agreed hed do this by monthly repayments of £460.  This was 
adjusted to £360 to incorporate the monthly  fee he charged them  for his services. From the 
bank statements theyve  provided, it appears  Mr and Mrs T received payments of £360 on 
15 November 2013, 17 December 2013,  30 January 2014 and 13 March 2014, which I 
understand was the last they received.
Truly didnt accept Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  It said the payment to Mr D was a personal 
loan, which  wasnt a regulated activity, and that theres no record  of regulated advice  being  
given. So it says its not responsible for this activity. If advice was given, it suggested this 
may have  been  while  Mr D was still acting as an appointed representative of Tenet, an 
arrangement which  officially  ended on 27 September  2013.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He felt Mr D was involved  in the 
withdrawal from the bond and that this amounted to a regulated activity he was authorised 
by Truly to carry out. He felt this was linked to the fraudulent payment and that Truly is 
therefore responsible for that also.
Truly didnt accept the investigators assessment,  making the following key points:
Ref: DRN60351972It wasnt responsible for the withdrawal from the Friends Life bond. Mr and Mrs T said 
the loan was agreed on 3 October  2013  while Mr D was still with Dhanda Financial and 
that they were told this was to assist the transition to Truly. The surrender instruction 
was signed on the same  day.
The surrender was processed  before the servicing agency was transferred to Truly.
The person named on the October 2013  correspondence from Friends Life was an 
employee of Dhanda Financial and never worked  for Truly.
Mr D was only registered with Truly for a period of only 55 days.  It didnt know he was 
arranging loans  from his clients. The correspondence  confirming the withdrawal from Mr 
and Mrs Ts bond wouldnt on its own have been  a cause for concern.
Any involvement by Mr D in the bond  withdrawal wasnt a regulated activity. It would 
only have become a regulated activity if the proceeds had been reinvested in another 
regulated product.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  receive regulated advice on making a withdrawal from their Friends  Life 
investment. The fact they were persuaded and coerced  into accessing  money  from the 
bond wasnt  regulated advice as it was done with the sole intention of defrauding them.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision .
Truly has since told us it has no further  information to provide. Mr and Mrs T told us they 
accept my decision. They also said that theyve  received £7251.36 from the courts so far, 
with the last payment made  in April 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs T accept  my decision, Truly Independent Limited  must pay them  compensation 
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision. It should provide them with 
details of its calculations  in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.  
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60351973extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Throughout this provisional decision, Ive referred to the rules I must  follow in assessing all aspects of 
this complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published  as part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
As the industry regulator, it would be for the FCA to monitor Trulys  oversight and supervision of Mr D 
and I wont be commenting on that. The only thing I will say is that this complaint seems to be the 
result of a sophisticated fraud. But that doesnt mean Truly isnt ultimately  responsible for some or all 
of his actions.
In reaching this decision, Ive relied on the following  key pieces of evidence:
A Client Advice Agreement dated 3 October 2013 that Mr and Mrs T now say shows  Mr D was 
conducting business  with them  at this time in his capacity as an agent  of Truly.
A Friends  Life surrender instruction form signed by Mr and Mrs T on 3 October 2013 requesting a 
withdrawal of £20,000 from their investment bond.
A form that appears to have been signed by Mr and Mrs T on 3 October 2013 requesting the 
servicing agent for their bond was amended to Truly.
A letter from Truly dated 14 October 2013 that appears to show it sent the surrender instruction 
to Friends Life.
A letter from Friends Life to our investigator dated 11 August 2017 confirming Truly sent in the 
bond surrender  instruction.
Letters from Friends  Life to Mr and Mrs T and Truly dated 22 October  2013, confirming  it had 
amended its records  to show Truly as the servicing agent for Mr and Mrs Ts bond.
A letter from Friends Life to Truly dated 22 October 2013,  confirming a withdrawal of £20,000 
from Mr and Mrs Ts bond.
Banks statements appearing to show Mr and Mrs T received £20,000 from Friends Life on 22 
October and made two payments each of £5,000 to Mr D on 24 and 25 October 2013.
Bank statements appearing to show Mr and Mrs T received payments of £360 from Mr D on 
15 November 2013, 17 December 2013, 30 January 2014 and 13 March  2014.
Various documents provided  by Truly, including a copy contract and compliance manual, setting  
out the nature of Mr Ds relationship with it and the activities  he was authorised to carry  out.
Mr Ts police witness statement.
If Truly hasnt  seen any of this information, it can ask the investigator  for copies before  responding to 
this provisional  decision.
jurisdiction
The issue I must address  in deciding whether we can consider the merits of this complaint is whether 
Truly can be held responsible for the actions of its agent. Ive considered all the evidence to decide  
whether this is a complaint we can look at. We dont have jurisdiction to consider all complaints.  Our 
jurisdiction depends on the facts of the case and we have to make findings  on the facts  that are 
material to jurisdiction in order to decide whether  a complaint is one we can look at.
Ref: DRN60351974When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions  of an agent, all the usual  jurisdiction tests 
apply:
Do we have  jurisdiction over the respondent firm? In other  words, did the actions being 
complained about  take place when the adviser  was an agent  of the business  being  complained 
about?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Do we have  territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant eligible?
Was the complaint made within the relevant time limits?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Mr and Mrs T are eligible complainants, referred their 
complaint to us in time, we have territorial jurisdiction and Mr D was an agent  of Truly at the time of 
the acts complained about. 
Beyond this, the issue of whether Truly is responsible for the conduct of its agent involves a three 
stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; 
step 3 - consider whether the business was responsible for those activities  by reason of 
agency or vicarious liability.  
step 1  what are the specific acts being complained  about
Im satisfied this complaint is essentially about the suitability of the advice Mr and Mrs T say Mr D 
gave them to withdraw  an additional £10,000 (over  and above what they were  already planning to 
withdraw) from their investment bond with Friends  Life and the misappropriation of that money.
Truly doesnt seem to be disputing  the additional  £10,000  withdrawal from the bond was taken with a 
view to paying  this money to Mr D and that this is what actually happened. I think  the documentation  
Ive listed  above provides compelling evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ts recollections on this, 
particularly the correspondence from Friends Life and the bank statements theyve provided.
step 2  are the acts being complained about regulated activities  or ancillary  to regulated 
activities
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
Mr and Mrs Ts money wasnt  put into a regulated  investment. It seems it wasnt  invested at all and was 
instead misappropriated by Mr D. But the Friends  Life investment  bond they accessed to fund the 
payment was a relevant  investment according  to the RAO. So if Mr D advised  Mr and Mrs T to make a 
withdrawal, or arranged it, that would amount  to a regulated activity in its own right.  Contrary to what  
Truly seems to think, it doesnt require  the proceeds to go into another regulated product for this to be 
considered a regulated  activity.
Ref: DRN60351975Im satisfied Mr D gave advice to Mr and Mrs T to take an additional amount from their bond and was 
involved in arranging this. I say this because thats their recollection as confirmed in Mr Ts police 
witness statement. And, given their relative inexperience  in investment matters and history of 
following Mr Ds advice, I think  its what likely  happened.  I think  its unlikely they decided,  of their own 
volition, to take additional money  above what they needed  from the bond  and give it to him. 
Instead, I think Mr and Mrs T trusted Mr D and acted on his advice in the belief theyd receive a higher 
return through the scheme he was offering.
Given the close connection  and proximity  between  the withdrawal from the bond and Mr and Mrs T 
giving the proceeds to Mr D, Im also satisfied  the fraudulent payment took place during  the course of 
the regulated  activity of advising on and arranging  the sale of a relevant investment. And that the 
advice to withdraw  additional  money was given with the misappropriation in mind  - a point Truly  
clearly seems to accept towards  the end of its response to the investigators  assessment.
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  an investment that is a security or relevant  investment is a 
regulated activity. On the basis that the payment to Mr D was funded by the sale of units  in an existing 
regulated investment, and the adviser  advised  on and/or arranged that sale, those  payments were 
part and parcel of that regulated activity and would potentially fall within our jurisdiction.
I think  this point was established in the recent  judicial review case  of TenetConnect Services Ltd v 
Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018]. The judge explained that where a consumer has been advised to 
sell a regulated investment  in order to fund unregulated  investments, this would form a single  piece of 
regulated investment advice. The circumstances of this case are very similar to Mr and Mrs Ts. In both 
cases, the consumers were  advised by Mr D to sell units in regulated investments to make fraudulent 
payments to him.
In his judgement, the judge said the following:
I would have  concluded, even had the Ombudsman not, that the advice to buy, to put it 
simply, though taken  by itself and in isolation, was unregulated, was here all part and parcel 
of the advice  to sell, and was "regulated". This is not a case  where the advice to sell arose 
from the need  to dispose of an underperforming or risky asset, whereafter the IFA would  look 
for something better. It is not simply that the advice was given at the same time,  or that the 
trades took place so closely  in time. That helps to evidence that the advice  to buy was what  
led to the advice to sell. The advice to sell was given  so that the alternative unregulated 
investments could be made; they were compared, and their advantages persuaded Mr and 
Mrs T to accept the advice to sell. The advice,  put simply was that, because they could do 
better in unregulated  investments, they should  sell the specified investments.  The advice on 
unregulated investment  justified the advice on the specified investments, and in that way, 
became part of the regulated  advice.  The Ombudsman was bound to conclude that they were 
part and parcel of the same  advice. I conclude  that the whole advice was regulated activity, 
and that the Ombudsman  had jurisdiction.   
I believe the judges comments  are also applicable to this case. The advice theyre complaining  about 
(to use the proceeds of selling units in an existing  bond to fund a fraudulent payment to the adviser) 
was part of a regulated  activity (advising on and/or  arranging the sale of units in the bonds). Without 
the withdrawal  from the regulated investment, there would have been no unregulated  payment to the 
adviser. So I think its right to consider the transactions as being inextricably linked and forming a 
single piece of regulated advice. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about  fall within our jurisdiction 
as set out at DISP 2.3.1R. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying out regulated  activities.
step 3 - is Truly responsible  for those activities by reason  of agency  or vicarious liability  
Based on what Ive said above, the complaint  against Truly is one I can consider if Mr Ds fraudulent 
acts took place:
Ref: DRN60351976while  he was acting as its agent;  and 
were part of business  it authorised him to carry out. 
On the first point,  Ive considered Trulys view that Mr D wasnt acting as its agent  at this time, but Im 
not persuaded  by this. Mr D and Mr and Mrs T didnt  have  a personal relationship  their relationship 
was a professional one of financial advisor and consumer. So Im satisfied  Mr Ds actions in advising 
on the withdrawal from the bond and the resultant fraud  which  is the subject of this complaint   were 
carried out in his professional capacity  as an adviser. 
With regard to who Mr D was representing at the time, I wouldnt have expected Mr and Mrs T to 
understand the intricacies of his relationships with Tenet,  Dhanda Financial and Truly. So I dont think  
any comment  theyve made that could  appear to suggest they thought  he was representing anyone  
other than Truly should be given significant  weight.
In my view,  theres compelling evidence Mr D was representing  Truly. According to the FCA register,  
hed been registered  with Truly since 20 September 2013  approximately two weeks before the 
surrender instruction was completed. Incidentally, I also notice Dhanda Financial ceased to be an 
appointed representative of Tenet on 27 September 2013  approximately  one week before the 
surrender instruction. I think this leads  to the conclusion he was representing Truly as this is the 
business he was authorised by at the time. In my view, this is supported by the following:
he also asked Mr and Mrs T to sign a form confirming the change of servicing agent to Truly, 
which was signed on the same day as the surrender  instruction;
the covering  letter with which  the form was sent to Friends  Life was on Truly  headed paper; 
and
he asked Mr and Mrs T to sign a Client Advice agreement, also on the same day the 
surrender instruction was completed.
On the basis that I believe the weight  of evidence  shows Mr D was representing Truly  when he 
advised Mr and Mrs T to take additional money from their bond and give it to him, an act that 
constituted a regulated activity, I must consider Truly responsible for that act if any part of it was 
something it authorised  him to do.
Ive reviewed Mr Ds contract with Truly and the other information its provided and I dont think this 
placed any restrictions  on him advising  clients  to sell units in existing  investments. The compliance  
manual dated December 2012 appears to show Mr D was authorised to carry out regulated activities, 
including:
arranging (bringing about) deals  in investments;
making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments; and
advising on investments (except pension transfers and opt outs);
Ive not currently seen  anything to indicate  Mr D wasnt authorised to advise clients on selling units  in 
existing investments  or to help arrange this and it hasnt argued that in response to the investigators  
assessment. So it currently appears the overall regulated activity  of which the fraud was a part  
involved activities Mr D was authorised by Truly to carry out. 
Ref: DRN60351977conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied Mr D advised  Mr and Mrs T on the sale of units  in their Friends Life investment bond and 
helped arrange  this, and that the fraud was part and parcel of this regulated activity. Im also satisfied 
the advice to sell and the involvement in arranging  this were activities Truly authorised  Mr D to carry  
out and that he was representing it at the time. On balance, and taking everything  into account, I think  
I have to conclude Mr Ds actions were also the actions of Truly  and that this complaint falls within our 
jurisdiction and is one I can consider.
merits and putting things right
I dont think there are any grounds on which I could reasonably conclude  the course of action Mr D 
proposed for Mr and Mrs T was suitable for their needs or otherwise legitimate. Given my finding Truly 
is responsible for the fraud  he carried out, I think its fair and reasonable  to require it to pay 
compensation for any loss that resulted.
In assessing whats fair compensation, my aim is to restore (as far as possible) the position that would 
have existed but for the fraud Truly is responsible for. Ive seen nothing  to indicate Mr and Mrs T were 
looking to withdraw an additional £10,000 (above what they already wanted for a planned purchase) 
from their bond. So without his intervention,  I think its most  likely that money  would  have stayed  
where it was. So I think the current value Mr and Mrs Ts money would  have achieved if left invested 
in their Friends Life bond  should form the basis of any compensation  payment.
In calculating compensation,  I think it would  be reasonable for Truly  to take account  of any monthly 
repayments Mr and Mrs T received in respect of this loan.  As Ive said above, it currently appears this 
amounts to four payments  of £360 on 15 November  2013,  17 December 2013, 30 January 2014 and 
13 March  2014.
I understand some  of Mr Ds victims have also received back some of the money  they lost due to his 
fraud through the courts. If this is the case for Mr and Mrs T, I think  it would also be reasonable for 
Truly to take account of any money recovered in respect of this loan only. Id expect them  to provide 
details if asked. 
If its not possible to identify which  loan any money recovered  relates  to, which I think  is likely, it would  
be reasonable to deduct the relevant part of the total payment in relation to the total of all fraudulent 
loans. From our investigation of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Tenet,  it seems they made five loans 
to Mr D, including the one in this complaint,  totalling £97,000. £10,000 is 10.3% of £97,000, so it 
seems reasonable to assume 10.3% of any court payment related to the loan in this complaint.
In addition to any financial  loss resulting from Mr Ds actions as a Truly  agent, I think it must have 
been very upsetting for Mr and Mrs T to find out theyd been defrauded of a considerable  sum by their 
adviser and this must have caused a deal of upset and put them to considerable unnecessary trouble.
The true impact of the situation  on Mr and Mrs T, and therefore the amount to award for their trouble 
and upset, is difficult  to assess.  But in the circumstances  of this case, I think  a substantial  payment is 
due and that the amount  of £500 is fair.
To put things right, I currently think Truly should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation of F, where:
A.= the amount the £10,000 they withdrew from their Friends Life bond in October  2013 would 
now be worth  if it had been  left where  it was and invested in the same fund(s). Friends Life 
should be able to calculate this figure;
B.= the total of all repayments Mr and Mrs T received  from the adviser in respect of this loan 
only. Currently that appears to be four separate payments of £360;
Ref: DRN60351978C.= the relevant portion (probably 10.3%) of any money Mr and Mrs T have so far recovered 
from the courts in respect of Mr Ds fraud;
D.= A  (B + C)
E. = £500  for their trouble and upset; and
F.= D + E
Id expect Truly to calculate  compensation due at the date of my final decision. If this amount isnt 
paid within 28 days of the date on which  Mr and Mrs T accept my decision, it would need to add 
simple interest  at 8% per year to the whole amount from the date of my decision to the date it makes 
payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
If Truly is concerned Mr and Mrs T may still recover money  in the future,  it should  be entitled to 
require them to sign over their rights to the relevant proportion (10.3%)  of all future  payments they 
receive as part of this settlement. Id expect Mr and Mrs T to agree  to that. It would  be for Truly  to pay 
any costs  associated  with drawing up an appropriate  agreement.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Truly Independent 
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation calculated using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN6035197