K820x#14Complaint
Ms M complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) lent money to her that she 
couldn't afford to repay.
Background
Based on the information provided, Ms M entered into three loans with Mr Lender between  
September 2014 and March 2018.
Loan Date Instalments Amount
1 Sep 2014 6 £500
2 Nov 2017 3 £250
3 Mar 2018 12 £1,000
Ms M says that Mr Lender didn't carry out proportionate checks before the loans were 
provided and that had these taken place it would have realised the loans weren't sustainably 
affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out an employment check as 
well as other affordability and credit  checks.  It says that it gathered information about  Ms M's 
income and expenses including her payments towards other  loans and that based on this 
information the loan repayments were affordable. Mr Lender says that there were breaks in 
Ms M's borrowing and that she didn't display signs of dependency on short  term loans.
Our adjudicator noted the significant break  between  when the first loan was repaid and the 
second loan provided and said that the loans  should  be considered as two separate lending 
chains. She didn't think there was enough evidence to say that loans one or two shouldn't 
have been provided. However she thought that had proportionate checks  been carried out 
before the third loan, Mr Lender would have  realised that Ms M was having  problems  
managing her money and had multiple commitments  to other short  term lenders. Because of 
this she said loan three shouldn't have been provided.
Mr Lender didn't agree with our adjudicator's view. It said that proportionate checks were 
carried out before loan three was provided  and that our adjudicator hadn't  shown  which 
checks would have  shown  the loan to be unaffordable.
My provisional conclusions 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
given the size of the repayments  on Ms Ms first loan compared to her monthly 
income the checks carried out were proportionate.  As these didn't raise concerns 
about the affordability of the loan I couldnt  say this loan shouldn't have been 
provided;
there was a substantial gap between when Ms M repaid the first loan (January 2015) 
and when she took out her second  loan (November 2017) so loans two and three  
should form part of a new lending chain;
loan two was for £250 repayable over three months with a highest monthly 
repayment amount  of around £155. This was the first loan in the lending  chain and 
Ref: DRN68254232given the size of the repayments  compared  to Ms M's declared income I thought  
there wasnt enough evidence to say this loan shouldn't have been provided;
loan three was for a larger amount but was repayable over a longer period. As this 
was only the second loan in the lending chain  I thought the checks  carried out before 
this loan was provided were  reasonable. As these didn't raise  concerns I didnt find 
that I had enough  evidence to say this loan shouldn't have been  provided.
No further evidence was provided in response  to my provisional decision.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure 
that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I thought the checks carried out by Mr Lender 
before the loans  were provided  were  proportionate. As these didnt raised  concerns  about 
the affordability of the loans, I didnt find that I had enough evidence to uphold  this complaint. 
As no new evidence  was provided in response to my provisional decision my decision hasnt 
changed.
In this case, I do not find that I have enough  evidence to uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6825423