K820x#14Complaint
Mr Fs unhappy  about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline 
his claim made under  a pet insurance  policy.
All references in this decision  to Red Sands include  its claims-handling agents.
Background
Briefly, Mr F took out a pet insurance  policy with Red Sands. Mr F made  a claim on the 
policy in 2019  for his pets vet treatment. Red Sands assessed the claim and decided not to 
pay it. It said the policy excluded claims for the cost of spaying  and that some of the costs he 
claimed for were for that procedure. It added that the value of the remainder of the claim fell 
below the policy excess, meaning there  wasnt anything for it to pay.
Unhappy with Red Sands decision,  Mr F complained to us. Most  recently,  one of our 
investigators looked into the complaint  and didnt recommend it be upheld.  They  felt Red 
Sands was entitled to decline the claim based on the policy terms and the clinical evidence.
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point  is for me to explain what the policy summary and terms say Red Sands 
wont cover.  Most relevantly in this case, the policy summary said the policy  didnt cover 
costs for, among other things, spaying.   
Further, the policy terms themselves set out the general exclusions. They included Any 
claims arising from your pet being neutered or spayed.
In my view, these exclusions arent unusual and are commonly  found  in policies such as the 
one held by Mr F. And I dont find them unclear  in the context of this claim, as Mr F 
suggests.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr Fs said regarding his pet needing to undergo 
treatment as an emergency. I dont doubt that, but it remains that no insurance  is intended  to 
provide cover in all situations. Unfortunately  for Mr F, part of his claim falls squarely within 
the scope of an express policy  exclusion.  
That, in turn, meant Red Sands was also entitled to refuse payment for the remainder of the 
claim  that is, the part that was potentially covered by the policy  as it fell below the excess 
amount.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Red Sands has treated Mr F unfairly.
Ref: DRN68329792My final decision
For the reasons  given,  and while Im sorry to have  to disappoint  Mr F, I dont uphold the 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6832979