K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Principality  Building Society  mis-sold him payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with his mortgage.
background
In 1989 Mr W took out a mortgage with Principality and at the same  time took out PPI to 
cover his income and protect his mortgage  payments in the event he couldnt work  through 
accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £5.60 a month  and it provided a benefit  to cover a substantial part of Mr Ws 
monthly mortgage payment of just over £200  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence showed  
that Mr W chose  to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate hed lost out as a 
result.
Mr W disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Principality says that it didnt recommend the policy  to Mr W or advise him to take it. But in 
his view, Mr W says it did. I will assume  that this was an advised  sale as this is to Mr Ws 
advantage and it doesnt affect the decision Ive reached.  So Principality not only had to 
provide Mr W with enough information about the policy  so he could make an informed 
decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable  for him based on his 
needs and circumstances at the time.  Ive taken this into account  in my consideration of the 
case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide  as there  is limited evidence available from the time of 
the sale, around 30 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Principality make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in a meeting in March 1989. I dont know  what  Principality might 
have said to Mr W but I do have the application  form for the mortgage and an example of a 
welcome letter for the PPI to consider.  
I accept it is possible Principality didnt  give Mr W a choice about taking PPI. I also accept it 
is possible Principality gave him the impression  he had to take it out. But it seems  more 
likely Principality gave Mr W the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of his 
Ref: DRN63926642mortgage application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten  in the years 
that have now elapsed. 
I say this because  Mr W has ticked a box on the mortgage application form saying  that yes 
he wanted the PPI, when  there was the option to say no he didnt  want  the PPI alongside. 
And he has signed the form.  Had he chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been added to his 
account without  either  his knowledge or consent,  I wouldve expected him to query  or 
challenge this shortly afterwards, especially as I think its likely that the PPI cost made  his 
monthly repayments shown on his statements over £5 higher than the monthly cost of the 
advance he would have  seen in his loan offer.  And Principality has sent us an example of 
the welcome letter for the PPI that I think its likely he received. This thanks him for his 
application, and outlines the cost and benefit of the policy.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr Ws complaint) it is more  likely 
than not Principality presented the policy to Mr W as compulsory or that it didnt tell him 
about the policy at all.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr W properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr W lost out?
I dont know what Principality said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr W. I also dont 
know what information Mr W was given about the PPI, for example, whether he was told 
about the significant exclusions  and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr W agreed  to take 
the cover  out without  knowing  anything about  it, but I dont know if he received everything he 
needed to know  to allow him to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Principality recommended to Mr W that he take out PPI. I accept Mr W may not have been 
treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr W has lost out as a result.  I say this 
because, given Mr Ws circumstances  and needs at the time, I think the policy cover was 
suitable for him. And I find it unlikely  that Mr W would  have  acted differently and not gone 
ahead with the cover if Principality  had given him more information. My reasons are as 
follows:
I have no evidence  that Mr W wasnt eligible for the cover  and all its benefits
Mr W was working and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would have 
been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations of the cover such  as existing 
medical condition  exclusions or unusual employment terms. 
Mr W was buying  the house on his own. I note that he had savings that could have 
covered his payments for up to 3 months  if he became sick or lost his job, and he 
had 6 months full pay and 6 months half pay sickness  entitlement from his employer. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay from 
his employer for up to 24 months  for each claim and enabled him to keep his savings 
for other  things. So I think Mr W had a need  for cover and it would have been useful 
to him if Mr W found he was unable to work.  It could have helped him financially at 
what would be a difficult time - it could  have helped him protect his home. 
I find it unlikely Mr W would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely he would  have declined  it solely  on 
Ref: DRN63926643the basis of its cost had it been made  clearer to him. Ive already said he had a need 
for it and at approximately  £5 per month  it appears  to have been affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  some failings in the way the policy was sold 
and Mr W may not have been treated  fairly and reasonably by Principality in its dealings with 
him, I find hes not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons Ive detailed  above, 
I think Mr W would have been in the same  position  if Principality had done  more and 
properly advised  and informed him - I think he would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr W has not lost out as a result of taking out 
PPI with his mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6392664