K820x#14complaint
Miss T is unhappy with Barclays  Bank UK Plcs  decision  to not refund transactions  she says 
were carried  out by her ex-partner.
background
Miss T contacted Barclays in November 2017  after she received her credit card statement. 
Shed noticed a number of transactions she says she didnt make or authorise.  She believes 
her ex-partner must  have made the transactions and, at this stage, realised her card was 
missing. She went back over her account and told the bank the disputed transactions  started  
in June 2017.
Its important to mention  here that Miss T has informed us  and the bank  that she has 
memory problems.
Miss T told the bank  the PIN for her card was the same as other cards she had and also the 
same as the unlock code  for her phone and tablet. She thought  that was how her ex-partner 
might have learned what it was. And she said he would have been  able to take the card out 
of her purse without her noticing.
Miss T also told the bank  that it was actually her ex-partner that had applied  for the card in 
her name but shed  started to use it a bit when she found out. She maintained the 
transactions from June  to November werent  authorised by her though.
Barclays looked into the fraud claim but held Miss T liable for the outstanding debt. It said it 
had spoken to Miss T on a few occasions  in the same period as the disputed  transactions.  
Those conversations had been about  the account  balance, interest charged and payments 
to the account.  Barclays was satisfied this was Miss T calling and that the calls 
demonstrated she was aware of the transactions at the time.
Miss T said it wasnt her on the phone and also felt her ex-partner must have made 
payments to the account to try and cover up what hed done. 
Miss T brought her complaint to our service as she maintained that shed not authorised the 
transactions on her account. One of our investigators looked into what  had happened  and 
thought Barclays  had acted fairly. He thought it was more likely than not Miss T had 
auhtosied the transacitons. In summary  he said:
he didnt think an unknown person had carried out the transactions
oMiss T hadnt suggested  an unknown person was involved and there was little 
explanation for how someone she didnt know would have learned her PIN 
and gained access to her card.
oour investigator also noted  the spending was very similar to Miss Ts normal 
spending on the same  card as well as on her other accounts. It seemed 
unlikely to be the actions of an unknown  fraudster
he didnt think Miss Ts partner had spent  without her authority
othe similar transactions were an issue here too and again it seemed unlikely 
Miss Ts ex-partner would steal her card and transact in the same  way she 
had and at the same  merchants
Ref: DRN62804622he thought  it was more likely than not Miss T authorised the transactions
othe spending matched Miss Ts normal  activity  across all of her accounts  and 
some was even carried out at the same merchants
oMiss T had changed her version  of events around applying for the card, telling 
us that she did take it out herself
ohe believed the calls to Barclays were her and that they indicated she knew 
what was happening  with the account
ohe noted the PIN was the bank  issued one; it hadnt been changed to a 
different number. 
Miss T disagreed with our investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review her 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Our investigator set out a good deal of detail in her opinion and I dont intend to repeat it 
here, though  Ive reached the same outcome for broadly the same reasons. Ive summarised 
the key points of that opinion in the background section of this decision. And I believe they 
highlight the key reasons for my being unable to uphold Miss Ts case.
Miss T has accepted that, at some  point, one way or another,  she was aware of the card and 
genuinely used  it. Shes said it had been in her possession and she knew  the PIN. Shes 
also said the PIN was the same as her other  cards  as well as her phone  and tablet.
Im not persuaded that last point is true as the banks evidence shows Miss T never  changed 
the PIN; it was the bank issued one. And it seems  unlikely  she changed all of her other  PINs  
and unlock codes  to this cards  PIN. Not when  shes in the past disputed ever applying  for 
the card and it seems  likely she had the other  PINs and codes for longer. I certainly consider 
it incredibly unlikely the bank issued her with a random PIN that happened to match  her 
existing one(s).
Im satisfied the calls to the bank were Miss T. And given the discussion of the account 
balance and payments Im also satisfied she was aware of the activity  on the account. I cant  
then see why she wouldnt  dispute  it at the time,  given these calls took place  within the 
timeframe the transactions took place.
Its also true the activity  matches Miss Ts normal spending across her accounts.  Thats  in 
terms of value, frequency and even merchants used. I consider it less likely that Miss Ts ex-
partner was transacting in a very similar way to her at a time when her normal  activity  on her 
other accounts stopped. if nothing else it raises the question of what  Miss T was using for 
her spending  at the time, if not this card or any of her others.
These points direct  me to the outcome  that its more likely  than not Miss T authorised  the 
card spending  herself. I think  the changing version  of events presented  by Miss T does too. 
Its possible those changes are down to the memory problems shes  told us about. But then 
it also seems  possible  that shes forgotten about these transactions,  rather than them  having 
been carried out by someone else, given what Ive said about the activity above.  But in any 
case I dont believe the transactions  have been carried out by an unauthorised third party.
Ref: DRN62804623my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280462