K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc ((BoS) trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  I know this will be disappointing  for Mr H  as I 
know he feels very strongly about  his complaint.
I should start by saying  its clear Mr H has spent considerable time compiling evidence  to 
support his complaint and give detail of his background  with BoS. While I have read all 
correspondence sent to this service,  my role here is to decide  whether Mr H was mis-sold 
MPPI  so I will be focusing on the points relevant to this in my decision. I can also see that 
Mr H has raised  concerns he was paying for a single premium policy,  added  to his lending  
and so paid more interest. But Mr Hs policy was a monthly MPPI  policy   and not added to 
his lending. 
Mr H says that he was pressured in to taking the MPPI  and that the salesperson was 
pushy. As I wasnt there at the time, I cant know what was said during the meeting  and 
Mr H hasnt said much about what led him to feel pressured. So I have  to base my decision  
on the information I do have.
BoS has supplied  a copy of Mr Hs mortgage application, along with a separate  MPPI 
application. The MPPI is presented as an optional product  on the mortgage application  and 
Mr H has signed to agree to take it. This is separate to his signature  for the mortgage  itself. 
Hes also signed the separate MPPI  application.
Having looked  at these documents, theres  nothing to suggest  that MPPI was required  or 
that an application would be looked  at more favourably by its inclusion. And as Mr H was 
applying for an important financial product, I think its likely he wouldve taken time to make 
sure he understood  these  documents. So taking everything in to account, I think  BoS made it 
clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the MPPI and he chose to take it out. 
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr H so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN61829352Mr H has also said that he wouldve had to wait six months before making a claim on the 
policy  but this is isnt correct.  The policy had a deferment period of 30 days. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr H.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr H because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mr H, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr H has said  including  that hes said about the 
difference between  knowing and thinking. But as Ive explained above, I cant know  what 
happened  I have to decide whats most  likely, taking in to account what  both parties have 
said, and the evidence theyve provided.  So this point doesnt  change my decision. And for 
the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182935