K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with his home insurer Saga Services  Limited  because  when his policy 
renewed the premium  charged for it had increased. Also when he rang to cancel this wasnt  
done, money was taken  from his account and only a partial  refund was received. 
background
Mr W received  renewal  documents.  His renewal premium had gone up by around £80.00 
from the year before  (£330   £410). He felt this was unfair as the risk he presented hadnt 
changed. He found cover elsewhere and told SAGA he didnt want to renew.
The policy renewed  and the first quarterly direct debit of the new policy year of £103.11  was 
taken from Mr Ws bank account.  Mr W called SAGA again. It cancelled  his policy. SAGA 
said it would  refund the premium in full. However, the refund process wasnt properly 
completed by SAGA  and Mr W only received a refund of around a third (£33.85) of the 
amount taken.
Mr W called  SAGA to complain. SAGA told Mr W that if he complained  it might  be eight 
weeks before he received  the rest of his refund. Mr W felt this was an unfair  tactic  of SAGA,  
employed to prevent him from complaining. But he did complain.
SAGA issued a final response. It acknowledged it had failed Mr W; first by not cancelling the 
policy during Mr Ws initial  call with it, and second by not completing the refund process 
(meaning only a partial refund  was received). SAGA said it would send Mr W a cheque  for 
£100, which included  the remaining refund amount of £69.26.  Mr W wrote  to SAGA stating  
that receiving this amount wasnt sufficient  that he now wanted the previous years 
premium refunding as well. SAGA didnt reply  and nor did it send Mr W the proffered 
cheque. Mr W complained to this service.
Our adjudicator felt SAGA had provided a poor service to Mr W but, on balance, felt its offer 
to pay £100 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  She also responded to other 
points raised by Mr W regarding the price  charged, and explained that our role isnt to punish 
insurers, regulate them or to generally protect consumers.
Mr W was thoroughly unhappy with our adjudicators  findings.  He asked us to ask SAGA  to 
send him just the £69.26  premium refund. He indicated he didnt  want  to progress his 
complaint to an ombudsman.
Mr W then contacted our adjudicator. He said SAGA had sent him a cheque  but his name 
had been spelled  wrong. He said he wanted  his complaint to pass to an ombudsman and for 
it to include consideration of the latest turn of events. Our adjudicator said shed pass  Mr Ws 
complaint to an ombudsman and that whilst shed ask SAGA to reissue the cheque,  she 
couldnt include that issue as part of this complaint.  
SAGA reissued  the cheque  and said it was setting up a new complaint regarding this latest  
error. Mr W received the new cheque  and complained to our adjudicator about the content of 
the covering letter. In an effort to allay Mr Ws concerns our adjudicator explained the letter 
to him. Mr W said this was more evidence showing SAGAs  pattern  of behaviour  that was 
designed to confuse him and to make  him question himself. He said we should  note that the 
amount of SAGAs cheque didnt include any compensation. Our adjudicator confirmed  that 
an ombudsman would  consider Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN69890232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Ws premium went up by around £80.00 and this equated to an increase  of 
just under 25%. I appreciate  it was frustrating for Mr W to see an increase when, from his 
point of view,  the risk he presented hadnt  changed.  For example, he hadnt made any 
claims. But an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels is appropriate for the cover   and as 
long as were satisfied that in doing that it treats all its customers  the same way, we wont 
usually interfere. 
Importantly, we arent the regulator. So we have no power to thoroughly investigate the 
pricing models used  by the insurance  companies with a view to making them  change  what 
they do.
From what  Ive seen Im satisfied that SAGA, as far as its role in pricing Mr Ws cover went, 
didnt treat him unfairly.  I say as far as its role went because SAGA only had a hand in part 
of the pricing of Mr Ws policy  the underwriter for the policy  also sets part of the price 
charged. And in fact SAGAs  part of the price was less than that charged the year before.
I think its also important here, as Im only looking at the relationship between SAGA and 
Mr W, that Mr W wasnt caused much detriment  as a result of the renewal price  SAGA  said 
Mr W would  be charged.  Mr W saw the price, was unhappy with it and decided  to change 
provider. So he didnt  suffer by paying the increased premium (except in respect of SAGAs 
error on cancelling which Ill come onto). Even  if I was persuaded, therefore, that SAGA  had 
acted unfairly by increasing Mr Ws premium, there wouldnt be any loss for me to 
compensate because Mr W took reasonable action to change  his cover and find something 
elsewhere that suited  him better. 
Mr W has said he wants the whole of the previous years premium  back (before the price 
increased). He says it wasnt fit for purpose. I know Mr W didnt claim on the policy but that 
doesnt mean it wasnt suitable for him. And I havent seen any explanation  from Mr W as to 
why he thinks it wasnt fit for purpose. Mr W had the benefit of the cover and so there are no 
grounds for me to require  SAGA to return  this premium.
Regarding the cancellation, whilst  SAGA has been  unable to find the recording of the initial  
call Mr W made to it, it has accepted he wanted  to cancel  the renewal during that call. Its 
unfortunate it doesnt have that call, but it is sometimes  the case  that recordings cant  be 
found or accessed for some  reason.  In any event an insurer doesnt have to record calls. 
And here, not having the recording, hasnt made a difference to Mr W because  SAGA  has 
accepted it failed him during this call anyway.
Because SAGA failed to cancel the renewal, money  was taken from Mr Ws bank account. 
SAGA then compounded its initial failures by not returning all of this payment to Mr W. This 
shouldnt have happened and SAGA accepts this. Its also apologised. SAGA  has now 
refunded the outstanding premium. It hasnt  sent anything in addition  to that but that is 
because Mr W said he only wanted  the premium returned. Im satisfied the total figure SAGA  
offered of £100,  including  the premium  refund,  was fair and reasonable recompense for what  
happened. The £30.74  offered in addition to the premium refund, sufficiently allows, in my 
view, for a few pounds  of interest (equivalent to a few months)  and fair and reasonable 
Ref: DRN69890233compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.  Im  not minded to make SAGA do 
anything more. If Mr W wants SAGA to pay him the remaining £30.74 (of the £100  offered 
after the £69.26 premium  refund was paid)  he should contact it. 
I understand it was off-putting for Mr W to hear of the complaint time-frame.  However, I think 
it was reasonable  that SAGA gave him notice that making a formal  complaint might mean an 
eight-week wait for his refund.  That timeframe  is set by the rules that govern this service 
which are handed  down by legislation and are part of the regulators handbook. Whilst many  
financial businesses will look to deal with matters within  the time-frame, rather than taking 
the whole  period to investigate complaints, they are given  in the rules an eight-week  
investigation and response period. It would have been unreasonable  for SAGA  to not let 
Mr W know what the situation  was.
SAGA has failed Mr W in some respects  (including referring to his motor  policy  when talking 
about the cover for his home)  and I understand  his frustration with it, as well as his concern. 
But I havent found anything that makes me think SAGA set out to deliberately confound 
Mr W, or to knowingly  treat him badly with some  negative  intent  in mind. Im not convinced 
there is a pattern of behaviours that suggests this is the case  and some of the things that Mr
W believes are part of such a pattern arent, in my view, failures. Such as the letter  that that 
SAGA sent with the re-issued cheque.  I can see why, given Mr W is so frustrated and 
because SAGA did fail him in a number  of respects  particularly  regarding his renewal,  that 
Mr W feels the way he does, but Im satisfied  that the way he feels  doesnt reflect  the true 
position. For the failures SAGA  did make, its offered,  in my view, fair recompense  to put 
matters right for Mr W. Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
I know SAGA is looking into Mr Ws complaint regarding the cheque  it sent with an incorrect 
name. I trust its response will resolve  things for Mr W. However, I need to let Mr W know that 
if he is unhappy it is unlikely we will be able to consider a complaint from him in this respect.  
The issuing of the cheque was part of the complaint process being carried out by SAGA.  We 
can only look at complaints about  regulated activities and an insurer  carrying out a complaint 
process is not a regulated activity. I dont  wish for Mr W to feel I am trying  to put him off 
complaining; if he wishes  to complain he may do so. But I feel it was only fair to share with 
Mr W at this point  the positon in this respect  as I see it. That way, armed with all of the 
pertinent information, Mr W can decide  for himself how he wishes  to proceed.  Im also aware 
that hes already  been sent a link to the rules which govern our service.  The rules detail the 
types of complaint we can look at. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Saga  Services  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6989023