K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains on behalf of S (a limited company)  that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
has declined  its commercial property  insurance  claim  for damage caused by fire and that it 
has voided (cancelled)  the policy for the non-disclosure of a material  fact. 
 
background
S is a limited  company running a bar. During the middle of one night  in August 2018 there 
was an arson attach on the bar. Two unknown persons poured accelerant over the front of 
the roller  shutter door and through the letter box which they then ignited. The fire brigade 
attended to put out the fire but not before damage  was caused to the entrance hallway and 
two fire doors to the bar and lounge areas. The fire doors stopped the further spread of the 
fire. 
Mr I notified his broker who made a claim on the policy to China Taiping. A loss adjuster was 
appointed to inspect the damage and validate  the claim.  During the loss adjusters 
investigation, he noted that S had warranted  in the statement of fact that no entertainment 
on the premises was offered,  however,  from a search on social  media that didnt appear to 
be the case. The loss adjuster referred  its findings to China Taiping. China Taiping told the 
loss adjuster to inform  S that the policy was voided, and the claim declined. 
The loss adjuster wrote to S in mid-September  2018 to inform it that its enquiries had shown 
that entertainment had been  provided on the premises  for some considerable time and 
certainly before the inception of the policy. The loss adjuster said that S was asked when the 
policy was first taken out in December 2017, Does the proposer: offer any form of 
entertainment? to which S had answered  no. The loss adjuster said that China Taiping 
considered this to be a material non-disclosure  by which  they had been induced  into offering 
cover it wouldve declined  if itd known. The loss adjuster said that China Taiping had 
exercised its legal right to void the policy, return the premiums and decline the claim. 
Mr I, on behalf of S, complained to China Taiping about its decision. He said that his 
insurance broker had said it offered cover to another offering the same entertainment as his. 
He also said he had no designated dance floor but that he was unable  to stop his customers 
dancing if they so wished. He said he thought China Taipings decision was unfair  because  
the loss he sustained was completely unrelated to the reason his claim was rejected. He 
said hed shown that China Taiping wouldve taken on the risk if itd known about  the 
entertainment. 
China Taiping looked into Ss complaint but didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.  It 
explained that Ss policy had been  issued by a broker with delegated binding  authority on 
the basis that all material information had been fully and correctly  disclosed. It said the 
information S had provided was then transferred to the statement of fact. It said had S 
answered the question about  offering entertainment  correctly, then the online  system would 
have responded  to ask more detailed questions about the type of entertainment offered. And 
it said that under the delegated authority  binder agreement, if the question had been 
answered correctly, the broker was required  to refer the risk to China Taiping for its 
consideration. And if this had happened, it said it wouldve declined cover  given the type of 
entertainment offered.  China Taiping  said the other  risk Mr I had referred to didnt offer the 
same kind of entertainment. 
Ref: DRN63522742Unhappy with the outcome of China Taipings  investigation,  S complained  to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt think  China Taiping had unfairly or 
unreasonably voided the policy  and declined Ss claim. So, he didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. 
S disagreed with our investigators  findings and the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether China Taiping has unfairly or unreasonably voided Ss policy  and 
declined its claim. I dont think it has; Ill explain  why. 
As this is a commercial policy, China  Taiping  isnt strictly required to ask a clear question  (as 
it would  be in non-commercial situations) but, I think the one S was asked (set out above) 
about the provision  of entertainment at the bar was unambiguous and shouldve been  
answered in the positive.  Ive seen copies of social  media advertisements for entertainment  
offered at the premises. The entertainment offered included  the provision of weekly  karaoke, 
the offer of function hire with a DJ, monthly  over 40s nights  (this advertisement  depicted a 
disco and dancing)  and live music.  The advertisement for weekly karaoke said there was 
music for everyone to have you dancing all night!.
I think that the provision  of regular karaoke, theme  nights and live music can reasonably be 
classed as entertainment. Given the clarity of the question and the actual  entertainment 
offered, I think China Taiping reasonably concluded that S had failed to answer the question  
correctly. 
That being  the case, I now have  to consider what China  Taiping wouldve done if S had 
disclosed that entertainment was offered on the premises.  Its clear to me from the evidence  
provided by China Taiping that the delegated authority binder under which the online broker  
had sold the policy wouldnt  have permitted the sale to proceed if S had answered  yes to 
the entertainment question. China Taiping has shown  that the broker wouldve had to have 
referred the risk to it to consider further. 
Its up to individual  insurers what risks they want to take on and what price  to charge for 
doing so. Insurers  will ask questions  at the point  of sale,  so they understand precisely  what  it 
is they are being  asked  to cover. As a commercial policyholder, S was under a legal duty to 
disclose everything  it knew that would influence  China  Taipings  judgment  on whether to 
offer to insure the risk being presented and, if so, on what  terms. It was also required to 
disclose enough  information to put China Taiping on notice  that it needed to make  further  
enquiries about potentially material circumstances. 
Its not clear to me why S thought the types  of entertainment Ive set out above didnt warrant 
disclosure at the point  of sale.  
China Taiping has provided  us with information from its underwriting guide to show  what 
questions it wouldve gone  on to ask S if the risk had been correctly referred. Im satisfied 
that they wouldve elicited answers (if correctly given) which would  have led to China Taiping 
declining the risk. Im satisfied from the underwriting information Ive seen that the type of 
entertainment offered   specifically the provision  of a disco  or an area set aside for dancing - 
Ref: DRN63522743at the bar formed an unacceptable risk that China  Taiping wasnt  willing  to cover.  That being 
the case, I dont  think that China Taiping has unfairly voided Ss policy for non-disclosure of 
a material risk the reliance on which induced it to offer cover it would not otherwise have 
done. 
Ive noted Mr Is point  that the non-disclosure  was unrelated  to the claim but its not relevant 
whether it was. Thats because the misrepresentation speaks to the policy liability  as a 
whole. The decision to void the policy means  its treated  as though  it never existed. That 
means China  Taiping  wasnt on risk when the claim arose so no cover for the fire damage is 
available. It follows that I dont think it unreasonably declined  Ss claim either.  
Ive thought about the concern Mr I raised  about  the other risk China Taiping had purportedly 
taken on. Unfortunately,  I cant  take that into account here because I can only assess  the 
issues relating to Ss bar and cover. And I note, in any event, that China Taiping has 
explained that the type of entertainment offered by the other bar was different from that 
offered by S. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I on behalf of S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6352274