K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out at 
the end of 1999. Mr C says the redress being offered by HSBC  Bank  Plc for the mis-sale  is 
not correct. He wants this put right. 
background
Mr C complained to HSBC about the mis-sale of the PPI on his credit  card.  HSBC  has made 
a total of four offers of compensation:
Its first offer was in June 2012, 
additional compensation in September 2013, 
a further payment in July 2014 
and finally, in May 2017 HSBC wrote to Mr C again offering him additional redress. 
Mr C didnt accept the final offer made  in May 2017  as he didnt think  it was enough.
To be clear I am only looking at the complaint about the redress that is due on Mr Cs 
Cardholder Repayment Protection policy (ending  4524). Our adjudicator made  Mr C aware 
that he would have to complain to HSBC separately about any other policies. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and considered that the redress already paid, plus 
the most  recent offer,  brought  the complaint up to date and the redress was now correct.
But taking account  of the fact that HSBC  had taken so long to resolve  the complaint the 
adjudicator recommend Mr C should  be awarded  an additional amount to take into account  
the inconvenience he had been  caused. 
HSBC didnt agree. It said that it had worked within the required timescales and completed 
everything to the best of its ability in order to make sure Mr C received  the correct  funds.  
As the case remains unresolved it has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has already  upheld Mr Cs complaint,  I wont be looking at how the policy  was sold 
to him. I will only be considering whether the offer of compensation HSBC has made  is fair. 
When a business  offers compensation  for a mis-sale  we expect it to put the consumer  as 
far as possible  in the position  they would have been in if they hadnt  taken  the policy. Id 
expect it to refund the premiums paid for the PPI, any interest paid on the premiums and any 
further charges  caused by the PPI. 
After reviewing the payments so far paid, plus the most recent offer of compensation, Im 
satisfied with how HSBC  has calculated the offer. So, I wont be making any further award to 
Mr C.
Ref: DRN63631852But I do agree  with the adjudicator that taking five years to resolve  a complaint is a long 
time. And even though I appreciate HSBC has been proactive and took the time to make 
sure Mr C did receive the correct redress, I think the process has been  long and it would be 
reasonable to make  an additional award  for the inconvenience Mr C has been caused.  
HSBC has now agreed to pay Mr C an additional  £75.00. All things considered, I think  that is 
fair. 
my final decision
Im satisfied that HSBC  Bank Plc has correctly calculated its redress already  paid and what 
is still on offer. That is available for Mr C to accept if he wishes to do so. HSBC  Bank  Plc can 
then bring the offer up to date.  
HSBC Bank  Plc should pay an additional  £75.00 to reflect the inconvenience Mr C has been 
caused because  the complaint took so long to resolve. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6363185