K820x#14complaint
Miss C and Mr O are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance  Limited turned down a claim made
on their travel insurance policy. Any reference  to Astrenska includes its claims handlers.
background
Miss C and Mr O had the benefit of an annual silver travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Astrenska (the policy). They went on holiday to the USA in October 2018. Towards  the start 
of that holiday,  Miss C experienced pelvic and abdominal pain, and nausea. She was 
admitted to hospital  and advised that she required emergency surgery.  She was found to 
have a bowel obstruction,  and part of her bowel was removed.
Miss C made a claim  on the policy to cover, amongst other  things, her medical  costs.  That 
claim was ultimately declined because Astrenska concluded that the bowel obstruction was 
indirectly related  to an operation she had on her liver around  three  months before the trip, 
and so was pre-existing. Miss C and Mr O didnt think that was fair so complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Astrenska  had declined the claim reasonably  and recommended
it be paid, subject to the reaming the policy terms. She also recommended  Astrenska pay
Miss C £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Astenska  disagreed  so the
complaint was passed to me look at everything  afresh and make a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in October 2019  explaining why I wasnt  intending to uphold  
Miss C and Mr Os complaint; I didnt think, based  on the evidence Id seen, that Astrenska 
had unfairly concluded that the surgery Miss C required whilst in the USA was indirectly 
linked to the operation she had on her liver within the months immediately preceding  her trip.
Astrenska replied agreeing with my provisional decision. 
Miss C and Mr O are unhappy with my provisional findings and have raised several  points in 
reply including:
Astrenska failed  to disclose exclusions under the policy;
the medical condition for which Miss C required surgery in the USA wasnt directly, or 
indirectly, linked  to her previous  liver surgery;
its unreasonable to ignore the weight of medical  evidence in their favour,  and place 
undue reliance on whats said on the fit-to-fly certificate;
Asternska acted  in an underhand way during the claims process;
Astrenska failed  to handle the claim promptly and fairly.
my findings
I thank Miss C and Mr O for their detailed and structured submissions. Ive considered 
everything theyve said when re-reviewing this complaint along with all the other available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it for the same reasons set out in my provisional  
decision  attached - which forms part of, this, my final decision.
Although Miss C and Mr O have made detailed representations, Ill only refer to the points 
which I think are central to my findings.  I mean no discourtesy by doing this. 
Ref: DRN60771722I appreciate Miss Cs and Mr Os disappointment and I know theyll be unhappy when I say 
that their further comments  havent  changed  my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. But thats because: 
Im satisfied  Astenska  wasnt  responsible for the sale of the policy. Ive taken into 
account Miss C and Mr Os comments about  principles of agency law but I dont think  
the seller of the policy was acting as Astrenkas  agent in this particular case. The 
sellers website says: we always make  sure we only ever use insurance companies 
that have the size and dedication  to back up their promises. That suggests that the 
seller wasnt a tied agent  or an appointed representative - of Astrenska, and Ive 
seen nothing else in the sales or policy documents, or otherwise, which  persuades 
me that it was. 
6.1 of the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Insurance:  Conduct  of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) says the insurer (so in this case Astrenska) is responsible  for producing,  
and the insurance  intermediary (so in this case the agent) is responsible for providing 
the required information to the consumer (in this case Miss C and Mr O). The seller 
also has other obligations including providing information to Miss C and Mr O about 
the main terms of the policy  in a clear, fair and not misleading way at the point the 
policy was sold to them.  I havent  considered whether that happened here as Im only 
considering the complaint against  Astrenska. As I said in my provisional  decision, 
any complaint about the way in which the policy was sold to Miss C and Mr O should 
be considered  against  the seller. Astrenska are not responsible for the way in which  
the information about the policy was presented to Miss C or Mr O at the time the 
policy was sold, what the seller  told them about  the main terms of the policy or how 
that information was presented to them on the sellers website. 
Its not uncommon for insurance policies underwritten by the same insurer to contain 
different terms and / or definitions. So, although Miss C and Mr O have pointed to 
other travel insurance policies underwritten by Astrenska, which  contain  different 
terms and exclusions, Astenska  hasnt acted unreasonably by applying  the terms in 
the particular policy Miss C and Mr O took out with them.
I remain satisfied that Astrenska fairly concluded Miss Cs liver condition met the 
policy definition of pre-existing  medical condition;  it was a medical condition for which  
she received treatment for during the two years  prior to her trip to the USA.
I set out, in detail,  the available medical evidence  in my provisional decision along 
with my provisional thoughts about  why I didnt think Astrenska had unfairly placed 
more weight on what was said on the fit to fly certificate   issued not long after the 
operation - over the subsequent letter produced  by the same treating surgeon  around 
nine days later (and after Astrenska indicated that it wouldnt be covering the claim). 
Nor do I think it unreasonably placed  less weight on the contents of the letter 
produced by the physician who carried out the operation on her liver in July 2018.  
Although Miss C and Mr O have made detailed representations setting out why they 
believe thats unfair, their comments dont  alter my thinking. The collective evidence 
suggests that bowel obstructions are a known side effect of abdominal  surgery  as 
adhesions can develop,  and the fit to fly certificate  dated  30 October 2018 links the 
bowel obstruction  Miss C required surgery for whilst in the USA to adhesive scar 
tissue secondary to her prior operation on her liver (a few months  previously). And 
whilst the other  evidence suggests  anyone  could develop  a closed loop bowel 
Ref: DRN60771723instruction at anytime, given what was said in fit to fly certificate, and the timing  
between the liver operation and Miss C suffering abdominal pain, I dont think 
Astrenska has unfairly  concluded that it was more likely caused by the adhesions / 
scarring from the surgery she had to remove a liver mass. 
Astrenskas position that the treatment Miss C needed whilst in the USA was most 
likely a consequence of the surgery she had for her liver condition   as opposed to 
the liver mass itself  is different to the examples given at the top of page 3 of the 
policy regarding indirectly related  complaints. But that list isnt conclusive.  And I 
dont think Astrenksa  has acted  unfairly  or unreasonably by concluding that the 
surgery Miss C required  whilst in the USA was indirectly related to a medical problem 
thats more likely to happen because of another medical problem she already had - 
as set out in the policy.
Miss C and Mr O say the professional medical experts werent asked to provide an 
opinion on whether its more likely than not that the bowel obstruction  was the result 
of the operation she had in July 2018. However, I dont think Astrenska was required  
to obtain that information   and nor are we. Ultimately, its for Astrenska to establish 
that  taking into account the collective medical evidence   it has fairly  applied the 
pre-existing medical exclusion when  declining the claim. And for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied  its been able to do that.  
Miss C and Mr O say Astrenska didnt handle their claim fairly and promptly;  in 
particular it took too long to decide whether to cover  the claim which,  they say, 
caused unnecessary  stress. Had the decision not to cover  the claim be taken sooner, 
they couldve taken  additional steps to minimise their costs. However, I havent 
considered this aspect  of their complaint as I dont think  its been  raised  previously. 
They will need to raise  a separate  complaint with Astrenka  in the first instance.  And if 
theyre unhappy with its response, or dont receive a reply  within  eight weeks, they 
would then be able to refer that complaint back  to us to investigate. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss C and Mr Os complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr O to accept or reject my decision before
30 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN60771724copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss C and Mr O are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited turned down  a claim made
on their travel insurance policy. Any reference to Astrenska includes its claims handlers.
Background
Miss C and Mr O went on holiday to the USA in October 2018.  Towards the start of that
holiday, Miss C experienced pelvic and abdominal  pain, and nausea. She was admitted to
hospital and advised that she required  emergency  surgery. She was found  to have a bowel
obstruction and part of her bowel was removed.
Miss C made a claim on the travel insurance policy she had with Mr O to cover, amongst
other things,  her medical costs. That claim was ultimately  declined because  Astrenska
concluded that the bowel  obstruction was indirectly related to an operation she had on her
liver around three months before the trip, and so was pre-existing. Miss C and Mr O didnt
think that was fair so complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think Astrenska had declined  the claim  reasonably and recommended
it be paid subject to the reaming the policy  terms. She also recommended Astrenska  pay
Miss C £100  as compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Astenska disagreed so the
complaint has now been passed to me look at everything afresh and make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not intending to
uphold it. Ill explain  why.
The policy says it wont cover claims arising directly or indirectly from any pre-existing
medical conditions affecting Miss C and Mr O prior to their trip. And an indirectly  related
claim includes  a medical problem that is more  likely to happen because of another medical
problem Miss C had.
Under the policy, a pre-existing medical condition includes:
any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms or for which
any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation,  investigation or
follow-up/check-up has been required  or received  during the 2 years prior to the
commencement of cover under this policy and / or prior to any trip.
Miss C underwent  an operation in July 2018  for a liver resection. That was around three
months prior to Miss C and Mr O going to the USA. So considering the above definition,  I
dont think Astrenska  has unreasonably  concluded that Miss Cs liver condition was pre-existing.
Ive gone on to consider whether Astrenska has unreasonably concluded the bowel
obstruction she required surgery for on 19 October 2018 was indirectly related to the liver
condition. Im not a medical expert so Ive relied  on medical evidence thats been provided.
The surgeon  who operated on Miss C on 19 October 2018 in the USA (the surgeon) said in
a letter  dated 8 November  2018:
This bowel obstruction was unrelated to her prior benign  liver tumor. There is no way
that (Miss C) could  have prevented or anticipated that a closed loop bowel
obstruction like this would occur, given she was asymptomatic. This condition
Ref: DRN60771725developed acutely (within hours) and needed to be urgently managed with surgery,
otherwise it would progress to abdominal sepsis and death.
There is no way to definitively know whether the closed  loop obstruction was related
to scar tissue  from the prior surgery or a congenital band that can also cause
obstructions of this nature in any individual, regardless  of whether they have had
prior surgery.
Any patient at any time can develop a closed  loop bowel obstruction related  to
normal anatomical variation.  In addition, any patient who has had any prior surgery in
the abdomen  could at any time be at risk of bowel  obstruction from prior scar tissue,
no matter the reason for which the surgery was performed
However, thats different  to what the surgeon said when  issuing  the fit to fly certificate on
30 October 2018, which  was only the week before. She said at that time:
This was a surgical emergency that was related to adhesive  scar tissue secondary
to her prior operation but could not have been anticipated or prevented
This is consistent with Astrenskas global medical  directors view that on the balance of
probabilities it was very likely that Miss Cs bowel obstruction was indirectly caused by the
surgery she had in July 2018. He concluded this having considered the surgeons notes and
surgical report prepared shortly after the operation which said she performed lyse dense
adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall at the site of Miss Cs prior incision.
Both parties accept  they cant be sure of the cause of the bowel obstruction. But currently,
Im not persuaded  that Astrenska has unfairly  or unreasonably placed more weight  on what
the surgeon said at the time of issuing the fit to fly certificate and declining the claim  on the
basis that the bowel obstruction was indirectly linked to a pre-existing medical condition.
Thats because:
the fit to fly certificate  was written closer to the date on which the operation took
place;
the surgeons follow up letter  dated  8 November 2018 doesnt explain  why shes now
less definitive about the reason for the bowel obstruction compared to when she
issued the fit to fly certificate; and
she doesnt say that its more likely than not that the bowel obstruction  was a result
of a normal  anatomical  variation (as opposed to the surgery Miss C had in July
2018); just that there is no way to definitively  know the reason for the bowel
obstruction.
When proposing to make  this finding Ive taken into account what the physician  who
conducted the operation  in July 2018 (the physician)  said in a letter dated 14 November
2018; that this surgery was purely  for resection for an accessory lobe of liver segment, the
small bowel omentum and all pelvic  area was completely clean and untouched, and the
operation Miss C had in the USA had no correlation to liver disease.
But Astrenska hasnt declined the claim on the basis that Miss C required  surgery for
something directly related  to her liver.  The claim was declined because  it concluded the
bowel obstruction was indirectly linked  to her liver. And although the physician says the
small bowel omentum and all pelvic  area was completely clean and untouched, for the
reasons set out above, I dont think Astrenska has acted unreasonably by placing more
weight on what surgeon reported shortly after the operation; that there were  adhesions
present in her bowel, and adhesive scar tissue secondary to Miss Cs prior operation.
Further, the bowel obstruction might not have been anticipated or prevented  and Miss C
may have fully recovered from the effects  of the operation in July 2018 before her trip. But
Ref: DRN60771726that doesnt mean  Astrenska  has applied the policy terms unfairly.
Ive also taken  into account what Miss C and Mr O say about  the way in which the policy was
sold. However, I havent  considered that complaint. I understand that they were  awaiting the
outcome of this complaint against Astenska before continuing with their complaint  against
the company who sold the policy to them.
Miss C and Mr O also say the way in which  a pre-existing medical condition  was defined by
the company selling the policy  is different to the definition  in the policy terms.  But Im
satisfied Astrenska is entitled to rely on the terms of its policy when deciding  whether to
decline the claim  rather than what may have been on the sellers website at the time of
sale or after the policy  was sold, when Miss C says she checked the definition  of pre-existing
medical condition again (after the operation in July 2018).
I also note that Astreksa has said if Miss C and Mr O booked  their trip to the USA before her
illness in July 2018, it couldve covered them for the cancellation  of the trip. Its invited them
to submit a claim for the cancellation costs that wouldve applied to their trip as of July 2018
 as opposed to October 2018. I think thats fair and in line with what  I would expect it to do
in the circumstances  of this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not intending  to uphold  this complaint.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077172