K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms W complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1994 Mr W and Ms W took out a mortgage  during a branch meeting. At the same time 
they also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mr W (the 
policy benefit was 100% in his favour) couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
The policy would pay out for up to 12 months  and it cost under £25 a month.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that because  things happened  so 
long ago, there wasnt enough evidence  to say Mr W and Ms W didnt likely  choose to take 
out PPI. And there was nothing  to indicate that it was wrong for BoS to have recommended  
the policy to Mr W and Ms W.
Mr W and Ms W disagree, so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Given the length of time thats passed since the policy was taken out, BoS no longer has 
any of the paperwork  from the sale. Because of this lack of evidence and being mindful 
that the policy was taken out around 25 years ago, Ive not seen enough to fairly say that 
BoS didnt present  PPI as optional or that Mr W and Ms W didnt agree to take the policy 
out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr W and Ms W so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example while Mr W says he had more than six months full sick pay, the policy  
wouldve paid out alongside this and for longer if necessary (up to 12 months per claim.) 
Mr W and Ms W also dont appear to have had any other means  at their disposal they 
couldve used to meet their mortgage  payments.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said about  having treatment  for a condition / ailment in 
the run up to taking  out the policy. And while the policy  contained an exclusion for 
existing medical conditions / injuries etc in the 12 months  prior to the start date of the 
policy  so he was caught by this - Mr W told us his ailment didnt affect him physically in 
anyway and so prevent  him from working. 
Ref: DRN65167122In addition I can see the exclusion was time limited  it appears Mr W couldve claimed 
on the policy for or related  to his condition/ailment after 24 months assuming hed been 
symptom free. So I dont  think the policy was unsuitable.
Im also mindful that BoS has provided  internal  records from the insurer  of the policy,  
which record that Mr W didnt have any existing  medical conditions at the time.  Its not 
clear how this information was obtained  - but I think its reasonable to assume that Mr W 
was asked at some  point  in the sales process and the recorded answer was the one he 
gave. 
It may well be that in answering No Mr W didnt consider his ailment to be an existing 
medical condition  or a significant problem for him. But in any event and for the reasons 
Ive given above, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the policy  I 
think there was a need for cover  and the policy was suitable.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr W and Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But Ive said that its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong  it wouldve helped them protect their home. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W and Ms W have said - including what theyve said about 
their history  of refinancing  loans; the fact they had a lot of debt; and the affordability of the 
PPI. But these points  dont change my decision. Ive not seen enough to say that PPI was 
unaffordable or put pressure on their monthly  finances. And as Ive already said I think the 
policy was suitable  for them in their circumstances and that they had a need for cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019..
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6516712