K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  Ageas  Insurance Limited  have settled a claim under their motor 
insurance policy. Mrs H was a named driver  under Mr Hs policy.
background
In July 2018, Mrs H was reversing out of a parking space when she was hit by another  car 
coming out of a car park on the opposite side of the road. Mr H contacted Ageas on the day 
of the accident  and confirmed dash cam footage  was available  to support what they say 
happened.
Ageas say they told Mr H that Mrs H would most  likely be found  liable for the accident  as she 
was reversing at the time of the collision. Upon reviewing the dash cam footage provided by 
Mr and Mrs H, Ageas say it showed Mrs Hs car moving at the point of contact with the other  
driver so they decided  to settle the claim as a fault claim.
Mr and Mrs H dont agree with Ageas decision and have asked Ageas to amend their 
decision on who is at fault.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. She said Ageas investigated the claim reasonably  
by considering the available evidence including what each  party said.  Mr and Mrs H remain  
of the opinion that the other driver  was at fault,  so the complaint has been passed  to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it and Ill explain why.
Under the terms and conditions  of the insurance policy, Ageas can take over and deal with a 
claim in Mrs Hs name as an insured driver  on the policy.   This means  they have the right to 
settle a claim against Mrs H if they think this is the right thing to do. 
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for the accident. But wed expect Ageas to take a 
reasonable approach and properly investigate the claim, considering  all the appropriate 
evidence when making a decision on liability.
Mr and Mrs H say she checked  the road was clear before completing her manoeuvre and 
she was straightening  the car after reversing.  Mr and Mrs H also say she had right of way 
and the other driver sped  out of the car park on the opposite side causing both cars to 
collide.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about Ageas decision.  However,  I think Ageas 
conclusion that Mrs H was at fault was reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because  
there was no independent evidence  to say the other  driver was at fault for the accident.  
Ageas reviewed the evidence available including the dash cam footage  provided  to them by 
Mr and Mrs H, which Ive also looked at. This showed Mrs H wasnt stationary at the point of 
impact and Ageas say there was a greater onus on her to ensure the road was clear and 
that the manoeuvre could  be completed  safely.  And I dont think this explanation is 
unreasonable.
Ref: DRN60551012Having considered everything, I think Ageas acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and I cant say they have done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6055101