K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC irresponsibly granted  her an overdraft facility.
background
Ms M says Barclays shouldnt have granted her an overdraft in December 2012.  She says at 
that time she had a poor credit  record and payday  loans. Shed also just come  out of a debt 
management plan,  had many defaults, CCJs and a gambling problem. She says Barclays  
checks werent good enough.  She wants a refund of the interest and charges paid on the 
overdraft.
Barclays said in its final response that a £1,300  overdraft facility was granted in January 
2013. Ms Ms account had been  managed reasonably well in the three  months before that. 
And at that time there werent any debts, defaults or CCJs on her credit file. They  were  
entered after the overdraft was approved. It didnt act irresponsibly and will not make  a 
refund of fees and interest.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Ms Ms account was overdrawn  by relatively  small amounts before  January 2013. 
Her statements  show spending on gambling  and the use of payday loans. But this 
isnt enough to say approving an overdraft was irresponsible. 
Ms Ms credit file shows most payday  loans  were settled  and closed on time. There  
werent any missed payments or defaults before January 2013. Missed  payments 
only arose after the overdraft was agreed.  Other  issues  like a CCJ occurred some 
years before  2013.
Barclays wouldnt have been  aware  of the extent of Ms Ms problem nor had a 
detailed explanation from her when she made an online  application.  The information 
it had in January  2013 doesnt show problems indicating it was unreasonable  to give 
her the overdraft facility.  And her financial position got worse  after it was granted.  
Ms M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary she says her 
credit file, statements  and financial history showed  shed defaulted on a debt management 
plan, missed payments,  had many payday loans  and a serious gambling problem. Barclays  
has also admitted to making lending mistakes at about this time. Shes also made many 
affordability complaints  to other companies,  including about payday  loans,  which have been 
upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has provided  extensive evidence and detailed submissions to support her complaint. 
Ive read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. 
And they focus  on what I think  are the main  issues.
Before agreeing to the overdraft facility for Ms Ms account in January 2013  Barclays carried  
out some  checks.  There arent set checks it had to carry out. It particularly considered  how 
Ref: DRN61221792her account  had been operated in the preceding three months  and what  was on her credit 
file at the time. It was also entitled to rely on what Ms M said in her application. 
Barclays concluded that Ms Ms account had been managed reasonably  well in the three  
months before the application.  And at that time there werent any debts, defaults or CCJs  on 
her credit file. The overdraft facility was agreed.
Taking everything into account  I dont think on balance that this was an unreasonable or 
irresponsible decision. Although Ms Ms financial history before January 2013  wasnt  perfect 
and shed had some payday  loans,  this doesnt automatically mean she shouldnt  be given 
an overdraft facility, not least as one can assist  a consumer in managing  their affairs  and 
reducing overall borrowing costs. A consumer also isnt obliged  to use the full overdraft 
facility that is granted.
Here its clear that Ms Ms position  worsened  after the overdraft facility was agreed.  It was 
only after the decision was made  that more adverse information was recorded on her credit 
file. As Barclays has said if that later information  had been  available  in January 2013  it 
wouldnt have given  her the overdraft. But it wasnt. And Barclays  can only be expected  to 
have made  a decision on the information  available to it in January 2013. At that time it also 
didnt have a detailed explanation of events from Ms M.
Ms M says other affordability complaints shes made have been upheld  on broadly similar 
evidence. That may well be the case.  Other businesses mayve  come to a different 
conclusion but thats a matter for them. 
What I must consider in this case is solely what Barclays did in January 2013  on the 
information it had available  then. It must also be remembered that the type of checks  carried  
out for an overdraft facility  wouldnt be the same as those  for a short term payday loan, as 
the whole  amount of the overdraft facility and any accrued interest  doesnt  have  to be repaid 
in full the following month as it would on a short term payday loan. 
Taking everything into account  I cant fairly  conclude the overdraft  facility  was irresponsibly 
granted by Barclays.  And I cant reasonably require it to refund any interest or charges as 
Ms M would like.
Although I recognise  Ms Ms strength of feeling and frustration, I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6122179