K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a cash machine  withdrawal  that was 
made from her account. She says she did not make or authorise this payment. 
 
background
Ms W logged into her account on the morning of 31 October 2017, to check  her balance.  
She saw a cash withdrawal from an ATM  the day before  for £200. Ms W says she didnt 
know anything about this  so she called  Barclays. 
When contacting  the bank  she said her card was still in her possession and so believed  a 
cloned card must have  been used.
Barclays looked into the matter but declined to refund the withdrawal. It felt Ms W had most 
likely authorised it because its records showed that the genuine card had been  used with the 
correct PIN, which shed confirmed was in her possession. It added  that there hadnt been  
any incorrect attempts to use the PIN and there  hadnt been any attempts to use the card 
after it had been  cancelled. It didnt think this was indicative of fraud.
Ms W wasnt happy with Barclays response. So she asked us to investigate.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint but didnt uphold  it. She looked  at the 
technical evidence  provided by Barclays and was satisfied that Ms Ws genuine card had 
been used. She also thought about the different possibilities in which the withdrawal could 
have been made. However, on balance, she felt unable to conclude  that the withdrawal was 
fraudulent and was persuaded it was most  likely made and authorised by Ms W. 
Ms W didnt  agree with what  our adjudicator said  she maintained  that the card used to 
make the cash machine  withdrawal was a cloned  card or there might have been some  other  
glitch. In addition, she felt CCTV footage  of the withdrawal might make a significant 
difference to the outcome of her complaint and shouldve been obtained. She asked that her 
case be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Ms W contacted us to let us know that shed  also incurred bank charges on her account 
she said felt nervous about  putting money  in it. To resolve the complaint shed like Barclays 
to refund the withdrawal, the charges and pay her compensation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W feels very strongly about whats happened here  I know  that from what  shes told us. 
And I know shes been waiting very patiently  for a final answer on her complaint.   
But Im afraid I have to tell her that Barclays doesnt  have to refund the money  taken out of 
her account.  Indeed, there isnt a great  deal I can add to what the adjudicator said. That 
said, its important I reassure Ms W that Ive considered  her complaint afresh and 
independently of what the adjudicator has done.
Ref: DRN64339602Ive carefully considered  the requirements  of the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (PSRs), 
and the guidance of the Financial Conduct  Authority, around authorisation of withdrawals. 
These say that Barclays can hold Ms W liable for the disputed withdrawal if the evidence 
suggests that she most likely made or authorised  it herself.  
Ms W believes her card must have  been  cloned.  However, Barclays  says that the disputed 
withdrawal was made with her actual card and not a cloned card. And it says that the 
embedded chip was read when the transaction was made. I havent seen any persuasive  
evidence that Ms Ws card was cloned  or that its possible for the chip on a card to be 
cloned.
I acknowledge there is a widespread belief  partly  because  of media reports   that chip 
cards can be cloned,  In fact, there  is no consensus  among banking experts, or scientists  
who have looked  into this area,  that this type of cloning is even possible,  let alone 
widespread. I therefore think  its unlikely this happened here. Ive looked at the banks 
records and Im satisfied that the chip in the card was read when the disputed  withdrawal 
was made  and theres no evidence of a problem.   
Of course,  this isnt the only consideration as the regulations  relevant to this case also say 
that is not, on its own, enough  to allow Barclays to hold Ms W liable. 
So I need to think  about whether the evidence suggests on balance that Ms W most  likely 
made, or otherwise consented to the withdrawal  taking  place.  
Ms W told Barclays that the card was still in her possession when the disputed  withdrawal 
was made.  And she told us that the card was in her purse inside her jacket  pocket. I asked 
one of our investigators  to contact Ms W to ask her how she could  be so sure that she had 
her card and it didnt leave her possession temporarily. Because its possible she could be 
mistaken. However, Ms W is adamant this couldnt have happened.  
She told our investigator that she was on her way out for dinner, so she checked  she had 
her card. She said the card was in her purse  in the inside pocket of her jacket,  which she 
was wearing for the duration of the drive to her destination. And that when the withdrawal 
was made  she was still driving.  So she believes it would have been impossible for anyone to 
have taken the card from her. Based on this, I think Ms W has herself  ruled out the 
possibility that someone  could  have  taken her card without her knowledge or authorisation  
used it - and put it back. And she says no one knew her PIN.  
All of the available evidence in my view can only point to one other  possibility. That is, it is 
most likely that Ms W withdrew the money  from the ATM herself or authorised someone else 
to. I realise  thats a difficult  message  to give and indeed receive. Ive noted Ms Ws 
comments that CCTV footage would be helpful  here.  However, Im satisfied Barclays 
records about the card and withdrawal are correct.  And her own statement about how 
securely the card was kept on her person,  when  the withdrawal was made,  means that its 
hard for me to reach any other conclusion other than the withdrawal was authorised by her 
or made with her consent. So I dont think any footage would make a difference here. 
Having considered carefully the requirements of the PSRs, Im satisfied Barclays can hold 
Ms W responsible for the cash machine withdrawal. Therefore,  I wont  be asking it to do 
anything in relation to this complaint.   
Ref: DRN64339603I realise Ms W will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings  to an end what we can do 
to help her.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6433960