K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK plc wont refund  around £25,000 which  he says was 
debited from his account without his authority.
Background
Following an investigation by a third party  bank  where Mr W held an account, that bank 
made a report to the police. As a result, Mr W was arrested. The police dropped  its 
investigation around a year later and no charges were brought. He complains, in summary, 
that:
Santander blocked his account  on 3 February  2017. But the restraining order  wasnt  
made by the police until 17 February  2017.
The account should have been unblocked when Santander received notification that 
the police  had lifted the restraining order on 23 February 2018. It wasnt  unblocked 
until May 2018 and during this period Santander transferred £25,514.77 back to the 
third party  bank  to an account not in his name. If his account  had been unblocked 
when it should  have been, the transfer wouldnt have been made.
The transfer was made without his authority. And wasnt made on the instructions of 
the police. 
He received conflicting  information about  why the money was debited   Santander 
suggested it was following  orders from the police, but it also said it was acting in 
accordance with instructions from the third party bank.
No notice was given of the account closure.  Santander has concluded he is a risk, 
but theres no evidence of this  his circumstances are unchanged from when he 
opened the account in 2016.
Santander said it blocked Mr Ws account following information it received from the third 
party bank. It received indemnities  for money  that had been  credited  to Mr Ws account  a 
total of £27,000.  So, when  it unblocked the account, it transferred the balance of Mr Ws 
account - £25,514.77 - to the third party bank. It also took the decision to close  Mr Ws 
account without  notice. It acknowledged  that Mr W received  poor service when he 
complained and, as a gesture of goodwill, it credited  his account with £50.
The first adjudicator who investigated  this complaint concluded  that Santander should return 
the sum of £2,656.98 to Mr W, plus interest. This was because Mr W had credited other 
money to the account. Applying  Claytons  rule, or the first in, first out principle, only 
£22,857.79 of the £27,000  remained.  He also thought Santander should refund two account 
fees charged in April and May 2018 of £5 each.
Santander did not agree. It said Mr W had benefitted  from funds he was not entitled to.
A second adjudicator concluded that Claytons rule should not apply. She thought the money  
had been given to Mr W by a third party  to protect  it, so it should be returned  in its entirety.
Ref: DRN64493322Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary,  that:
The money  was not held in trust for anybody; the money was transferred to Santander 
from an account held in his sole name with the third party bank.
His account  with Santander should  have  been  unblocked on 23 February 2018 and the 
money should not have  been  transferred back to the third party  bank. The lifting of the 
police order meant  any obligation Santander  had under the third party indemnity fell 
away.
He hasnt  been  charged or convicted with any crime. Santander  has acted 
judgementally and on hearsay.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has complained to the third party bank.  This is the subject of a separate  complaint 
which has been referred to this Service.  This decision  is only about whether Santander did 
anything wrong.
Blocking the account
Santander blocked Mr Ws account  on 3 February 2017. It did not need to give a reason to 
Mr W for its action. But Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that it acted  reasonably in 
doing so. There  was no obligation on the bank to wait for a police instruction or a court  order  
before blocking  the account. Its action was a commercial judgement to make and here, Im 
satisfied that it was entitled  to make that judgement.
Debiting Mr Ws account
Santander received  an indemnity request from the third party  bank and it was obliged  to act 
on it. 
I appreciate Mr W feels strongly that, because  the police didnt bring  charges  against  him 
this proves he hadnt done anything wrong and the bank had no authority to debit  his 
account. But Santander had received enough  information from the third party  bank to satisfy  
itself that the credits  into Mr Ws account were fraudulent.
The amount  that Santander debited
The indemnities received from the third party bank were for three payments totalling 
£27,000. Mr W had spent  some of this money,  but there had also been  further  credits  to his 
account  which were genuine  and undisputed.  As the investigators have previously 
explained, in situations like this, the general rule is that of first in/first out in respect of 
credits and debits made to and from an account. 
But, while I have regard  for rules like this, Im not bound by them in deciding  what  is, overall, 
fair and reasonable, taking into account  all of the circumstances. Here, the circumstances 
arent straightforward and looking at this impartially, I dont think a strict application  of this 
rule results  in a fair outcome.
Ref: DRN64493323I say this because  Santander had enough  information for it to reasonably suspect that the 
third party had not consented  to their money  being transferred to Mr Ws personal account, 
or to be used by him for his own benefit. From  the information I have seen,  the third party 
had entrusted  Mr W to manage their finances and they understood the money would remain  
deposited for their own sole benefit.  
Mr W spent some of the third partys  money. But, because hed partly replaced it with his 
own money, Santander was able to return some of what  hed spent. This strikes me as fair, 
and a proportionate step to take, given the unique circumstances of this individual  complaint.
On the day Santander made the transfer,  £25,514.77 was available in Mr Ws account, so 
this is the amount it transferred.  Unfortunately,  on the same day, a direct  debit was 
processed which led to an overdrawn balance. But Santander later credited the account with 
£50 which  cleared the overdraft.
Closure of the account
Santander wrote to Mr W to tell him it was closing his account  and withdrawing  banking 
facilities. I find it didnt need to give him notice of its decision to close the account. I say this 
because Santander  was in receipt  of information  which reasonably  led it to conclude  that 
Mr W was in breach of the terms and conditions of the account. Specifically, clause 18.3 
says:
It is a condition that you do not.e) act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of 
fraud or other criminal  activities.
And clause  18.2 allowed Santander  to close the account without notice if a condition  had 
been breached.
The conclusion of the polices investigation didnt  result in any charges being brought against 
Mr W. But Santander had seen enough for it to reasonably make  this decision.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. He is free to reject  it and pursue this 
matter through  the courts should  he wish to do so.
Ref: DRN64493324My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6449332