K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr C says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made  it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because  
Capital One has given us a copy of the credit  card application Mr C completed  by post. 
There is a section to select  or decline PPI and PPI has been selected   Mr C has also 
signed the application so I think this reflected what he wanted. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I cant see that the application form itself tells Mr C how much the policy  
would cost or what the main terms or exclusions  are. It refers to See panel overleaf  but 
there was no requirement for him to read this before selecting the PPI. So I think there were 
likely to have been failings in the information given to Mr C.
So I need to consider if Mr C wouldve acted differently and not bought the policy,  if better 
information had been provided.  And I dont  think he wouldve. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look as though  he wouldve been 
affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it difficult for him to claim,  for 
example a pre-existing medical condition or unusual employment  circumstances.
Mr C has told us he would have got some sick pay and he had some  other  means if 
he was off work unwell  to meet the repayments.  Ive thought  carefully about this but 
the policy wouldve  paid 10% of any outstanding credit card balance each month for 
up to 12 months. It would pay out on top of his sick pay or other means  he got. So I 
still think the policy couldve been useful to him if he became unwell or lost his job.
Mr C has said he wasnt  made  aware of the cost of the policy  when he applied for it. I 
dont think the cost was made clear enough  but I also dont think  Mr C wouldve acted 
differently if Capital One had given him clearer information about  it. I say this 
because the monthly premiums and policy benefit are in line with similar policies from 
the time.  It looks like Mr C wanted  the cover the policy gave him. As its cost 
depended on how much  he spent, if he didnt use the card a lot, it wouldnt cost him 
very much. And as he was paying for the PPI monthly, he could cancel it without 
further cost if his situation changed  or he no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN61910422 
So overall, although the information provided  couldve  been  clearer, based on what I know 
about Mr Cs circumstances it looks like the policy couldve  been useful to him and I dont 
think that more, or better, information wouldve made him act differently and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Mr C lost out as a result of anything Capital One mightve  done  
wrong.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C and his representatives have said - including  what  they 
have said about  other  Capital  One complaints being  upheld. But we look at each  complaint  
individually and on its own facts  and merits. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6191042