K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold  a finance agreement with Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited.
background
In May 2016  Mr R purchased a car and entered into a Personal Contract Purchase 
agreement (PCP) with Pendragon.
Mr R says he was pressurised into entering  into the PCP agreement  rather than purchasing 
the car with cash. He says he was told by the sales person that when the PCP ended,  the 
car would be worth  more  than the guaranteed minimum  value and that the equity could be 
rolled over into a new agreement for a new car.
Mr R was subsequently told by the supplying  dealer  that the car was in negative equity and 
that because the car was already worth less than the guaranteed minimum value the 
projected surplus at the end of the PCP was no longer  expected.
Mr R feels that he was misled into entering the PCP. He isnt sure what  to do with the car 
now.  Hes  considering voluntary termination  or keeping the car until the end of the PCP and 
handing it back with nothing further to pay (subject  to the damage  and mileage  conditions).
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that the PCP agreement  was clear and 
that the business couldnt be expected to accurately predict what  would happen to car 
values in the future after the agreement had been  signed.
Mr R didnt agree. He felt that the sales person had been motivated by other factors  in 
persuading him to enter into the PCP agreement. Mr R said that although he always  
intended to purchase the car, he had incurred interest charges by entering into the PCP 
which he wouldnt otherwise have done  had he purchased the car with cash.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said about  feeling pressured into entering into the PCP 
agreement. Mr R hasnt  said whether  he was offered any particular incentives to enter  into 
the PCP. Its not unusual  for dealerships to offer incentives from time to time such  as cash 
back and to explain the different types  of finance packages available  to potential  purchasers. 
Theres no contemporaneous  evidence of what was discussed when Mr R visited the 
dealership. The dealership doesnt have any notes and the sales  person  who assisted Mr R 
is no longer employed  by the dealership. I wasnt present when Mr R visited  the dealership 
so I cant be certain of what was said. In these circumstances, I need to look at the available 
documentary evidence  in order  to determine  what is more likely to have happened at the 
point of supply.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. I can see that Mr R signed a document  which 
explained how a PCP works  and which set out the options which  would be available at the 
end of the agreement. The document also explains what  a guaranteed minimum value is.
Ref: DRN61835022Its clear from the agreement that theres an obligation to make monthly repayments which  
include interest. Having  looked through the agreement  Im satisfied that the key terms are 
clearly set out. Mr R has signed the agreement to confirm that he has read and understood it 
and is happy with the terms.  Because of this, Im unable  to conclude that the agreement was 
mis-sold.
I appreciate that Mr R is disappointed that the car has depreciated more  than both he and 
the dealership  originally  anticipated. The depreciation appears to have been influenced by 
factors outside of the dealerships control, such as the discontinuance of this particular 
model and the impact  of current political thinking  on diesel cars. I cant  fairly hold the 
dealership or the finance company responsible for market conditions. And its not reasonable 
to expect the dealership to have predicted that the value of the car would be affected by 
these factors. Mr R has suggested  that the sales person  was aware  that the model was 
going to be discontinued but I havent  seen  any information to support this.
Based on the evidence  that Ive seen  and taking all of the circumstances of the complaint 
into account, I cant conclude that the agreement was mis-sold or that the dealership  has 
misrepresented the future value of the car. I appreciate that Mr R hasnt decided what  to do 
with the car yet but the option to return the car at the end of the term remains open to him 
and if he chose this option he would not be liable for any negative  equity  because  of the 
guaranteed minimum  value.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183502