K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt assess  his loan application fairly. 
Hes now in severe financial difficulties  and its not helping him.
background
At the end of January  2019 Mr B applied  online  to RBS for a loan to help him consolidate his 
debts. It refused and since  then he has lost his home and his employment. And he is 
suffering from depression  and anxiety. He doesnt think RBS is doing enough to help him. 
Its closed his local branch which makes  it very difficult for him to speak to anyone  about his 
problem and when  he gets through on the phone theres no acknowledgement  hes a loyal 
customer. And he cant make it understand that giving him a loan would help him solve his 
financial difficulties.
RBS said it carried out a series of checks both internally and externally. As a result of those 
checks it declined Mr Bs application. It thought that even though  the purpose of the loan 
was to consolidate his debts (including an external debt) the loan wasnt affordable. But as a 
goodwill gesture it refunded  charges  of £110  and debit interest of £10.58, it waived pending 
charges of £72 and paid him compensation of £75 for any service  failings.
Our investigator didnt  think RBS was unreasonable in declining his loan application because 
it didnt think it was affordable after itd done  all its checks. But she did think it couldve done 
more to recognise his financial  difficulties and done  more to support him. She thought it 
shouldve recognised his difficulties earlier. So she thought RBS should pay Mr B another  
£100 compensation.  
RBS agreed to this compensation.  But Mr B said £100 wasnt  anywhere near enough to 
compensate him for the trauma, distress and ruin hes suffered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what a difficult situation Mr B is in but having looked  very carefully at his 
complaint I know he will be disappointed  when I say Ive come  to the same conclusion  as our 
investigator for very similar reasons. I can see shes taken everything into account so theres 
not much  more I can add to what shes already  told him.
Banks have strict internal lending criteria which can vary from bank to bank.  These are 
commercial decisions and we cant tell them what criteria to use nor do we expect them  to 
give us details of those criteria. And if a bank decides to reject an application based on its 
own lending  criteria we cant challenge that decision. Mr B thinks  his application shouldve  
been granted but I havent seen anything that makes me conclude  RSB didnt follow  its 
internal criteria when  it assessed his application.  So it seems to me RSB carried  out a fair 
and reasonable assessment of his loan application  which is what  we would expect it to do. 
Ref: DRN61659212Mr B complained to RBS about its decision on his loan application In April 2019. It said that it 
then became aware of his financial difficulties. Its refunded and waived charges and 
interest. Its Financial Difficulties Team is in contact  with him to help him with a plan to repay  
his debt. Its stopped  interest and charges on his account. But as our investigator found, 
RBS shouldve recognised he was in financial difficulties  after he phoned  following  his 
declined loan application. That doesnt mean that its decision to decline his application was 
wrong. But it does  mean  that it shouldve offered him support earlier. So I agree with our 
investigator that RBS should pay him another £100 which I think  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay Mr B an additional £100  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6165921