K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) carried  
out insufficient affordability checks before  lending  to him.
background
Mr D had two loans  from Satsuma between February 2017 and June 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Status
1 23 Feb 2017 £1,000 12m £166 11 Mar 2018 In arrears
2 11 Jun 2017 £500 12m £83 21 Jun 2018 In arrears
Mr D says he had other  short-term loans when borrowing from Satsuma and the repayments 
were a large  proportion of his income.  He says if Satsuma had done better checks  it would 
have found the loans  were unaffordable and caused  his debts to spiral.
Satsuma says each  application was assessed  for creditworthiness  and affordability using 
Mr Ds declared  income and expenditure alongside a credit check. It says the checks 
indicated Mr D had understated his expenditure,  but it still found the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He found Mr D had three  
County Court Judgements  on his credit file, of which one was still active.  Because of this he 
didnt think Satsumas checks went far enough  and if it had carried  out proportionate checks, 
it was likely to have  seen  Mr D was having problems managing  his money. Our adjudicator  
recommended interest and charges  should  be refunded on both loans (plus 8% statutory 
interest) and any negative  information  about the loans should  be removed from his credit file.
Satsuma responded  to say, in summary, that its customers  are typically  a higher lending risk 
because of their low credit scores so are less likely to be able to borrow  from mainstream 
lenders. It says it retrieved detailed  information about Mr Ds financial circumstances and 
where figures differed from the expenditure provided  by him, it used the higher figure.  It said 
that, even adding in such safeguards, the calculations  showed the loans were affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make sure Mr D 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr D was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Satsuma  had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr D applied for his first loan, his credit file showed three County Court Judgements, 
the most  recent of which was in June 2016.  I accept what Satsuma says about the typical 
credit profile of its customers, but I consider it should have carried  out a full financial review 
before approving Mr D for lending. Such a review is likely  to have shown Mr D:
Ref: DRN68539052Still had an active CCJ;
Was already on a debt management  plan;
Had a further  six outstanding  short-term  loans with three other lenders;
Was spending a considerable amount of money  on gambling (£1,600  in January).
So I find Satsuma should not have approved Mr Ds first loan as there was clear  evidence he 
was already having trouble managing his money.
Loan 2
Loan 1 was still outstanding when Mr D applied for loan 2 and his financial situation hadnt 
improved since February 2017. So Satsuma should have realised that it was unlikely Mr D 
could sustainably repay an additional  loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as 
Satsuma Loans) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr D paid on the loans;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for the loans,  apply  the refund to reduce 
any capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr D; 
Remove any negative  information about the loans from Mr Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Satsuma  
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6853905