K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  didnt tell him that it had withdrawn the 
extended warranty feature  on his credit card.
background
Mr Hs Nationwide credit  card included a feature to extend the warranty  on electrical items 
costing more than £50. 
Nationwide withdrew  the feature in February 2018,  but Mr H didnt find out about this until 
after hed bought some  electrical goods  later in 2018. Mr H says Nationwide didnt tell him 
that the feature was being withdrawn.
Nationwide accepted that when Mr H contacted it about a different complaint in May 2018,  it 
didnt tell him that the card no longer had the extended warranty  feature. It also accepted 
that it couldve been more prompt in dealing  with Mr Hs complaint. It offered £50 
compensation for the mistakes  it had made.
Our adjudicator thought that was fair. She was satisfied that Nationwide  had told Mr H by 
email and on its statements that the extended warranty  feature would be withdrawn. So she 
didnt think the society needed to pay anything  more.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Under the account terms Nationwide has to give customers thirty days notice in writing of 
changes. Nationwide says it emailed customers registered for online billing in November 
2017 to tell them it was removing the extended  warranty feature. Mr H is registered for online 
billing, but says he didnt get the email.
Details about removal of the warranty feature were also included on statements in January 
and March 2018. I understand that Mr H reviews  his transactions online, but that he doesnt  
necessarily download  statements.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide gave Mr H adequate notice about the 
warranty features withdrawal. I accept that Mr H may not have  received  the email  that was 
sent in November 2017, but I think the society  sent it to him at the address it had registered 
for him on its systems. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Nationwide  received notification  
that the email  hadnt been delivered.
Im also satisfied that details of the change were  included on Mr Hs statements before the 
warranty feature was withdrawn. I think it was reasonable for Nationwide  to include the 
information on the statement documents.
Ref: DRN65020992Nationwide didnt mention to Mr H that the warranty feature  had been  withdrawn  when he 
spoke to it about a different complaint in May 2018. So I think its reasonable that Nationwide 
should pay some compensation for that.
Nationwide has paid £50 to Mr H, which also included an amount for poor complaint 
handling. I think thats fair, but I wont be asking the society to do anything else.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6502099