K820x#14the complaint
Mr O says TSB Bank  plc didnt tell him about changes to the sort code and account  number 
of his credit  card.  This meant that payments  he tried to make  to his credit card from May 
2018 were returned.  Mr O says this has affected his credit score and would like TSB to 
correct that and to compensate him for the trouble this situation  has caused  to him.
what happened
Following the split from Lloyds Bank, TSB made  changes to the sort code of its credit  card 
accounts. This change  took place in April 2018,  when TSB migrated its computer systems 
away from Lloyds Bank.
Mr O has said he wasnt told about  this change, so when his usual direct debit to his credit 
card account  was paid in May 2018,  he didnt understand why it had been  returned. Mr O 
says that over the following  months he made every effort to find out from TSB what  the 
problem was, but that TSB was not helpful  in resolving  the issue.  He says TSB only told him 
that the sort code and account  number might be the problem in March  2019, but by that time 
no payment had been made to his account  for around ten months.
Because of this, Mr O says he incurred additional  interest and that missed payments were 
recorded on his credit file. Ultimately,  in April 2019, TSB wrote to Mr O to say that it had 
passed his account to a collection agent. And around that time Mr O tried to make a 
payment to his credit  card using the new account details TSB had given him, but that 
payment also didnt go through.
Mr O wants TSB to compensate  him for the stress this situation has caused, to waive the 
interest that was applied  to his credit card, and to ensure his credit file is correctly  updated.
When TSB looked at Mr Os complaint, they said that all customers had been notified of the 
change to account details, so they didnt agree that they were  responsible  for Mr O not 
making payments  to his account. TSB therefore felt that it was reasonable for them  to have 
recorded information about the missed payments on Mr Os credit file, and to pass his 
account to collections. But TSB did offer Mr O £150  to recognise the time it took for them to 
respond to his complaint. 
Two of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. They  thought what  TSB had offered Mr O 
was fair in the circumstances,  but didnt  think that TSB had acted inappropriately in how they 
had dealt with Mr Os account. Mr O didnt think this was fair, so the case  has been passed  
to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £150 compensation TSB has already paid to Mr O is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint. 
Ive seen evidence  from TSBs systems that letters  were sent to Mr O in late 2017 about  the 
systems migration, and Ive seen  sample letters which show that the change to the sort code 
of credit card accounts was flagged to customers. TSB held the correct address for Mr O, so 
Ref: DRN67443472Ive got no reason to believe that these  letters  didnt  reach him or that TSB failed to take 
steps to notify  Mr O of the upcoming change.
Once the first payment  was returned in May 2018, I can see that Mr O contacted TSB to say 
that he wanted an explanation of why it hadnt gone  through. But I cant  see that TSB would 
have known exactly what the issue was, given that as far as they were aware Mr O should  
have known about the change to his account details, I dont think  it was unreasonable  that 
their original advice was to see if Mr Os bank could  trace the payment that should have 
been made to TSB. 
It was for Mr O to check that he was using the correct details for the payment,  and to take 
steps to make sure that he was keeping up with the payments  due on his account.  I 
appreciate that it was frustrating that his direct debits werent going through,  but that is not 
the only method  that was available to him to make  payments. I can see that every credit  card 
statement he received  also included a paying in slip  containing the correct account details 
 and that his statements advised  he could make payment in branch or by sending a cheque  
in the post. His statements also gave the specific account details he would need if he wanted 
to make a payment  via telephone.
With this in mind, I dont think I can hold TSB responsible for Mr O failing to make any 
payment to his credit  card for such an extended  period of time. I appreciate that Mr O had an 
ongoing complaint against TSB,  but I dont think that means he no longer had any 
responsibility for maintaining payments to his credit  card. It follows that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for TSB to record  information about  the missed payments on Mr Os credit 
card, or to pass the account to collections when no payments  had been  forthcoming for 
nearly a year.
I understand that Mr O was also unable to make a payment to the new account  details when 
he attempted this in April 2019, but at that time the account was with an external debt 
collection agent. TSB explained  to Mr O in their letter  of 11 April 2019 that he would need to 
contact the agents  directly  to make any payments from then on.
So with everything  Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that TSB has either recorded 
inaccurate information about Mr Os account,  or that it didnt  take reasonable steps to advise 
him of the change  to his account  details. I do acknowledge that TSB took a long time to 
respond to Mr Os complaint, but taking everything into account, I think  the compensation 
TSB has already paid to Mr O is a fair amount  for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744347