K821x#15complaint
Mr A trading  as K has complained that Tradewise  Insurance  Company Limited  didnt pay a 
claim he made under his motor trade insurance policy.
background
Mr A had a motor trade policy with Tradewise, which he bought through a broker.  In January 
2018 his recovery  vehicle caught  fire while he was driving it uphill in snowy  conditions.  So he 
made a claim on his insurance.
Tradewise didnt pay Mr As claim because his vehicle had been modified. It said under the 
policy terms this meant  it was covered for third party risks only.  
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint.  Our adjudicator didnt  think Tradewise had acted 
fairly. Tradewise disagrees  and so Mr As complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr As policy  says his vehicle is only covered for third party risks if it has been modified. 
Modified isnt defined in the policy. The policy also says liability  for loss or damage  caused 
by fire to Mr As vehicle  is excluded if its been  modified.
Tradewise says Mr As vehicle hadnt  been  re-registered as a recovery vehicle by the DVLA  
at the time he added it to his insurance. It says this meant it had been  customised or 
modified, as its description  didnt match the vehicle that was registered. And it says this 
wouldve been evident to Mr A, because this was a commercial policy  and he wouldve had 
knowledge of these vehicles and what was required  by the DVLA.
Mr A says hes been doing business  with Tradewise for nine years.  He also says it was 
aware the vehicle  was a recovery vehicle and wouldve  known it had been  modified but 
didnt mention the reduced cover. Ive seen an email  from the broker through whom  Mr A 
bought the policy saying  he advised  them it was a recovery  truck.  I can also see Mr As 
declared occupation on the schedule  of insurance,  which is also endorsed for breakdown 
recovery, is shown as accident/breakdown  recovery.
The V5 log book shows the vehicle  wasnt a recovery vehicle from new  I understand it was 
a panel van. But by the time Mr A bought it (he wasnt  the first owner),  it was a recovery  
vehicle. So theres no dispute the vehicle was changed. 
Its clear from what Mr A has told us he knew the vehicle had been modified. But it seems  he 
answered no to the following question on a Statement of Fact weve been  sent by 
Tradewise: 
Do you handle  or own one of the following: kit built vehicles; vehicles that have been 
customised, modified or supercharged; any Ford Cosworth models; vehicles over 25 
years old from date of manufacture;  Q-Plated vehicles?
Ref: DRN64025422Because this was a commercial motor trade insurance policy,  Mr A had a duty to make a fair 
presentation to Tradewise  of the risk it was taking on. So he had to tell it anything he knew  
or should have  known  that might influence  its decision to offer full cover. 
Although it seems Mr A answered no to the question about modifications in the Statement,  
I dont know when or how he was asked the question or, indeed,  how the Statement was 
generated. And, from what Mr A says, Im not sure he wouldve understood, from the way 
the question was phrased, that he needed to tell Tradewise  about modifications he clearly 
thought were standard for the vehicle  he was insuring and used as part of his breakdown 
recovery business  and that he believed  Tradewise wouldve known about given his history 
of buying its commercial insurance. And Mr A did tell his broker the vehicle was a recovery 
vehicle when he added it to the policy. Tradewise  offers full cover to recovery vehicles and 
Mr As schedule  of insurance is endorsed to this effect. So I dont think  theres a material 
difference in the risk it took on by insuring a recovery vehicle to one that was once used as a 
panel van. So I dont think Tradewise has acted  fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr As 
claim.
As a final point, I should mention theres some uncertainty about the legal ownership of the 
vehicle at the time of the incident. Ive seen an invoice showing Mr A bought it in July 2016.  
But his V5 log book (which  I understand was issued by the DVLA  on 27 February 2018, 
more than a month after the incident) shows him acquiring it on 2 January 2018. Mr A says 
he can clear up any confusion about the ownership. But, if he cant  establish he was the 
legal owner of the vehicle at the time of the incident,  he should know he will have no 
insurable interest in it and so Tradewise wont be under any duty to deal with the claim.
my final decision
Subject to Mr A providing proof of ownership of the insured vehicle, I uphold his complaint 
and direct Tradewise  Insurance Company Limited  to process  his claim for the January 2018 
incident under the terms of the policy on the basis he had fully comprehensive cover. And, if 
he still has the vehicle  insured with it, Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited  should  
continue cover on it on a fully comprehensive  basis.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A trading as K 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6402542