K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1992 when Ms L was applying  for a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ms Ls main complaint is that, when  applying for her mortgage, she was persuaded by the 
branch manager  to take out a policy she didnt want or need. She told us that she was made  
to think she had to have it and it was difficult to say no. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain  my reasons.
In order to uphold  Ms Ls complaint Id have  to find that its likely she wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added  to her account without her proper consent.  Where 
theres only limited information and disagreement  about what  happened  I have  to look at 
everything and decide  what I think is most likely.
I cant know exactly what was said when Ms L arranged her mortgage. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  her to recall in detail what was discussed at the time. This means that 
what Ms L says now isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold  her complaint. 
Ms L remembers feeling under pressure to have  the PPI but Nationwide has explained that it 
was offered free for 12 months with the mortgage she applied  for. Offering free PPI as part 
of a mortgage deal doesnt mean  it was mis-sold.  Ms L couldve applied for a different 
mortgage if this wasnt  the mortgage package she wanted. So this isnt a reason for me to 
uphold her complaint.
And overall,  I dont  think the evidence is strong enough for me to safely conclude that the 
PPI was mis-sold to her, just based  on what Ms L says. Her mortgage was a major financial 
commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Ms Ls home wouldve been at risk if the 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. She alone  was responsible  for paying her 
mortgage  and the policy offered her significantly better protection than she had otherwise. 
So I can see why she mightve felt at the time that PPI couldve been useful to have  
especially as Nationwide  offered the policy free of charge for the first 12 months. 
Based on what we know about  how Nationwide  sold policies in its branches at the time,  
I dont think its likely  it gave advice or a personal recommendation about PPI to Ms L. 
Ref: DRN66939222But I can see this is central  to her concerns about  the way she was sold this PPI. So Ive 
thought about whether my decision would  be different if Nationwide did recommend her to 
take out the policy  and it makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint. Even if 
Nationwide had recommended the PPI to Ms L I think PPI wouldve been  suitable for her. 
And, overall,  I think Nationwide probably  did give her enough clear information so Ms L could 
decide if the policy was right for her - and clearer information wouldnt have put her off 
having the PPI. 
Ms L was eligible for the policy given her circumstances  and the PPI terms and conditions. 
The policy covered Ms L for up to 24 months  per claim. It wouldve paid out in addition  to 
sick pay from her employer and it protected Ms L for longer  than she couldve depended on 
getting sick pay if she was disabled or too sick to go back to work. This couldve been a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Ms L needed to claim  
especially if she had extra costs as a result of illness or disability.  And the policy  wouldve 
paid out if Ms L had lost her job and become unexpectedly unemployed. 
I dont know if Ms L wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make a claim. 
And having PPI meant Ms L could keep her savings  intact to provide financial security  for the 
future. 
So, I think its likely that Ms L mightve considered these policy benefits useful in her 
particular circumstances.
Ms L wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits.  As it 
appears that she couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover, I think  it unlikely Ms L 
needed better information about the policys  exclusions  and limitations. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Ms L at the outset.  But Ms L 
couldve cancelled the PPI if she hadnt  wanted  to start paying to keep it running at the end 
of the free period. Given her circumstances, I can see why Ms L might reasonably have 
wanted to take advantage of the benefits PPI offered her. Looked at overall,  I think  it unlikely 
Ms L wouldve made a different decision about  whether to take out PPI if better information 
had been provided.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6693922