K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  that The Co-operative Bank Plc incorrectly  closed his loan account  and sold 
the balance to a third party debt collector,  as well as closing his linked  current  account from 
which repayments were  being made.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019 explaining that I intend to uphold  Mr Fs 
complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision is set out below.
Mr F took out a professional and career development  loan (PCDL) with Co-op in 2014. In 
April 2016 Mr F took out a new revised PCDL with Co-op. This replaced the existing 
agreement.
In February 2018  Co-op sent Mr F a default notice  in respect of his loan,  which said he was 
in breach of the loan agreement. Follow up letters were sent in March 2018,  chasing 
repayment.
Mr F contacted Co-op to query  this as he understood his payments were  up to date. He 
spoke to Co-op on 3 April 2018.  Co-op confirmed that the default  letter  had been sent in 
error and that the account was up to date and offered Mr F £25 for the distress caused.
In July 2018 Co-op closed the loan account  and passed the outstanding  balance to a third 
party debt collector.  After the third party company contacted Mr F to chase  repayment  he 
again raised the issue with Co-op.  
Co-op acknowledged that the account had been passed to the third party  in error as 
payments were still up to date. But it said that the account could not be brought back and 
Mr F would need to make payments to the third party.
Co-op also sent Mr F a letter on 19 September 2018 saying that it had closed  his current  
account (that was associated with this loan) and transferred the credit balance to the loan 
account. Ive seen evidence that this money  was transferred to the third party  and used to 
reduce the outstanding balance.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement do allow Co-op to transfer its rights  and 
responsibilities under the agreement to a third party. But, by its own admission, that right 
was exercised in error here and this should  not have happened.  
It isnt in dispute that Mr Fs loan was not in arrears or default when it was sold to a third 
party and that this was done in error. Co-op  has acknowledged this and explained  it was as 
a result of a system error, whereby its systems were still expecting  payments in line with the 
2014 agreement  rather than the revised  2016 one. So Co-op has made a mistake. What is 
left for me to decide is what the fair way to put this right is.
If we think an error  has been  made we aim, with the recommendations we make, to put 
consumers back as far as possible into the position that they wouldve been  in had the error 
not occurred.
Ref: DRN65481362Before this error occurred,  Mr F was making loan repayments to Co-op on a monthly basis  
and was due to until the loan was repaid in full. There  was apparently  no adverse 
information recorded on his credit file in relation to this loan and that would have remained 
the case provided all the contractual payments were  made on time.  This is the position that 
Mr F has asked to be put back in  to make payments  to Co-op and not deal with the third 
party, with whom he has no prior relationship. 
Co-op pointed  out that while the balance is held by the third party  it is not attracting interest  
which Co-op wouldve  been entitled to charge  under the original agreement if it held the 
balance. So Mr F is arguably  in a better position.  And the adjudicator  and I have explained 
this to Mr F. But his primary concern is that he doesnt want  to deal with the third party.  And I 
dont think that is unreasonable.
Co-op has said that it cannot  bring  the debt back from the third party   citing that a PCDL is 
not the same as a personal loan and that it does  not administer the programme.  Its not clear 
how this prevents Co-op from paying the amount  it was paid back  to the company that 
purchased the debt from it and reassuming control. But I accept that there may be system  
limitations that prevent it from simply bringing  the loan, in its original form, back under its 
control. While  it might  not be straightforward  though  I dont think these limitations  mean its 
fair that Mr F has to deal with a third party, due to Co-ops error. 
Unless after reading  this Co-op believes it would now be possible to reacquire the loan,  I 
think the fair way to address Co-ops mistake is for Mr F to make  the remaining monthly 
payments due under the original arrangement, at the point it was incorrectly closed, to Co-op 
less the amount credited  to the loan when  the current  account  was closed. And Co-op  would 
then be responsible for ensuring these payments are used to repay the balance  and, 
provided they are made correctly, that no adverse information is recorded on Mr Fs credit  
file regarding what has happened up to now. This may involve additional administration on 
Co-ops part in terms of making  onward  payments or taking action outside of its usual 
processes to reassume  responsibility for the balance. But I think its reasonable that Co-op  
be required  to do this, as it has made  an error here.  This is subject to the repayments being 
made correctly and on time each month. And should Mr F fail to make  repayments, I think  
Co-op would  be entitled to undertake recovery action  again in line with the original 
arrangement.
Turning to the current account that was also closed by Co-op,  generally  businesses are 
allowed to close accounts, giving the relevant notice, should they choose to do so. So I think  
its likely  that Co-op  was entitled to close this current account. But it seems here that this 
was done as a consequence  of its error in transferring the loan to the third party.  So it 
appears that this wouldnt  have  happened  if the error  hadnt  occurred. 
As it has the option  of withdrawing  from the arrangement, our service cannot  require  it to 
continue with an account. So I dont think I can require it to reopen Mr Fs linked current  
account - although  it may obviously wish to consider setting up an equivalent  account  to 
administer the ongoing payments. But I can consider the distress  this, and the other  errors  
made by Co-op,  has caused.
I dont doubt that this experience has been  distressing for Mr F. He has made the payments 
required under  the loan agreement he had with Co-op but has been told incorrectly  that the 
account was in default and then seen it sold to a third party and his current account closed. 
And I think Co-op should compensate him for the upset its actions have caused.
Ref: DRN65481363After Co-op incorrectly sent Mr F a default  notice, it offered him £25 for the inconvenience  
caused. And it has offered a further  £200 in respect of the distress caused  when his loan 
was sold to the third party  incorrectly and his current account closed. Taking everything into 
account, at the moment I think  the total offer is fair and reasonable for the distress  caused.
I think The Co-operative Bank Plc should;
Reassume control of the account or, if it maintains  this is not possible,  make 
arrangements to accept the remaining repayments due from Mr F under the terms of 
the loan from the point  it was incorrectly closed until it is repaid in full (subject to 
these being made correctly and on time in line with the original loan agreement)
Ensure any information  reported on Mr Fs credit  file reflects that payments have 
been made correctly  and on time up to now. This would include taking whatever 
steps are necessary  to work with the third party that purchased the loan to make sure 
it has accurately reported this data.
Pay Mr F £200 for the distress caused by its action in addition  to the £25 offered to 
Mr F in April 2018
If the £25 offered  in April 2018  has not yet been  paid to Mr F, make this payment at 
the same  time as the above
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Co-op said the suggestion to collect payments from Mr F and forward them  to the third party  
debt collector was not workable. Instead it could repurchase the debt from the third party. 
However Co-op said if it did so Mr F would receive a limited  service  specifically it wouldnt 
be able to issue him statements nor would he be able to access the account  through  online 
banking. It explained  that the reason for this was that when it was charged off and sold to the 
third party, Co-op received funds back from the Education  and Skills Funding Agency  
(ESFA) as part of the way PCDLs  are set up. The debt then belongs  to ESFA  and as such  
there is no account for Co-op to reopen, so repayments would need to be administered 
through a suspense account. It said it was willing to do so but wanted Mr F to be aware of 
the limitations of the service hed then receive.
It also said Co-op has never recorded this type of account with credit  reference agencies 
and that the implication that it did within my decision was incorrect.
Mr F did not respond to my provisional  findings.  Weve attempted to contact him following 
Co-ops response to discuss the potentially limited service that may be received but have 
been unsuccessful.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN65481364As set out in my provisional  decision, Co-op  acknowledges  it made  a mistake in transferring 
Mr Fs account  to a third party and needs  to do something to put that right. Broadly it has 
agreed with my recommendations  there are now just a couple of points to address about 
how this is done.  Based on this, and as Mr F has not objected Im not inclined to alter my 
overall findings.
Regarding the ongoing  administration  of the debt, I am pleased that Co-op has indicated it is 
now able to buy back the balance from the third party so that Mr F can deal directly  with it.
Co-op has explained that it will need to administer the debt differently than usual and why it 
cant be reopened as was  particularly due to how these types  of accounts are operated 
and the involvement  of the ESFA. Im conscious  that a PCDL  is different to a standard  loan, 
and I can understand  there may be some complexities involved. It wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to instruct Co-op to open  a different type of account, in place of the PCDL, just to 
enable the use of online banking. So while it is unfortunate that Mr F will not be able to use 
online banking to monitor this account moving  forward, I dont think this is unreasonable. 
This loss of service does  stem from Co-ops initial mistake in incorrectly transferring the 
account to a third party in the first place.  So Ive thought about whether  it would  appropriate 
to recommend Co-op pay further redress for the inconvenience this may cause. But having 
done so I think  the total redress of £225 already  recommended is still fair and reasonable.
In terms of Co-op not being able to provide  statements, again as it is having  to take actions 
outside of what  it would  normally to administer the debt, I dont think  it is unreasonable  that it 
cannot provide  conventional statements. That being  said, even if the debt is being  
administered through a central suspense account,  I would expect Co-op to keep a record of 
what the running balance is as repayments  are made. Otherwise  there would be a risk that 
Mr F may end up paying more than he needed to. So as some form of summary of the 
running total of repayments and outstanding balance will need to be kept and monitored, I 
dont see why, in lieu of being  unable  to provide conventional statements, this cant be 
shared with Mr F. I note the original credit  agreement explains that conventional statements 
will be sent at least annually. But with Mr F being  unable to monitor  the account through 
online banking, and considering the amount  of time remaining  under the original term, I think  
itd be fairer for these  transaction summaries  to be sent every six months. And even though 
the balance is to be administered differently than usual, in the event that a payment is not 
received Id expect  Co-op to contact Mr F to let him know, in line with what it was required to 
do under  the original  credit agreement.
Turning to any information reported to credit reference agencies, Co-op has previously let 
our service know that it had not reported any information about this account  positive or 
negative. My findings were that I understood no adverse information  had been reported, but I 
should have been clearer that Co-op had apparently not reported anything at all. As Co-op 
has not reported the account  previously, it follows it is unlikely to have recorded anything 
adverse. And I think it reasonable that this arrangement continue.
However for a number  of months, after Co-op  incorrectly sold the account,  the balance  was 
held by a third party. And it isnt clear whether the third party has reported any adverse 
information. My finding was that, had the account  not been incorrectly sold and payments 
maintained, no adverse  information would be reported regarding  the account.  I dont  know if 
the third party  company  has reported  any adverse information. So I remain of the opinion  
that Co-op needs to liaise with the third party company and ensure this is not the case.
Ref: DRN65481365my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint.
The Co-operative Bank Plc should;
Repurchase the account from the third party as it has agreed and make  
arrangements with Mr F for a payment instruction to be set up 
Liaise  with the third party to ensure that no adverse information has been  recorded 
on Mr Fs credit file
Send  Mr F a summary every six months of the position of the outstanding debt  
particularly the total repayments  made  and the running balance   until it is repaid in 
full.
Pay Mr F £200 for the distress caused by its action in addition  to the £25 offered to 
Mr F in April 2018. If the £25 offered in April 2018  has not yet been  paid to Mr F, 
make this payment  at the same  time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6548136