K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the financial impact of delays he experienced when taking  his benefits 
from his pension with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited.
background
Mr H had been saving  into a personal pension  with Aviva since 1980.  It was invested in its 
With Profits fund and came with a Guaranteed Annuity Rate  (GAR). In late 2018 Mr H 
wrote to Aviva to say he wanted to take his benefits  in January 2019 when hed be 67. He 
wanted to take the maximum amount of tax-free cash  (TFC) and then the rest as an annuity.
In November 2018 Aviva sent Mr H a retirement  options pack  with a policy  valuation  of 
around £101,800, giving a GAR  of £3,800  per year. Mr H decided  to wait until January 2019 
as he understood  hed get the maximum annuity  after his birthday, so in December 2018 he 
paid the 2019 annual  premium. On 8 January 2019  Mr H discussed  his options with Aviva 
and was told hed be sent quotes for the various options he was interested  in. The pack 
would also include a key facts document and the forms hed need to complete. The policy  
was now valued  at £91,675.  Mr H didnt receive  this pack, which  it turned out hadnt actually 
been sent. So after his birthday Mr H complained  to Avivas chairman he hadnt received his 
TFC. After speaking to Mr H on 5 February 2019 Aviva  sent him new pack with updated 
quotes and forms.  The policy  was now valued  at around £94,638. Then  Aviva  realised it had 
omitted quotes for his TFC, so another set of quotes was sent. 
Mr H queried the fall in value, and Aviva said the November  2018 valuation was wrong  and 
should have been around £96,000. Mr H didnt understand how his fund value was 
calculated and why it changed so much  in a short period. He feels  hes missed out a few 
months payments  as the annuity wasnt set up by his birthday in January 2019 as he 
wanted. 
Aviva apologised for the various errors and for the confusion the differing quotes caused.  But 
it explained quotes are not guaranteed and the actual amount Mr H would receive  could only 
be finalised  once the final bonus was calculated. It said it would compare the value on 5 
February 2019 and the date Mr H returned  his forms and pay the higher amount. And it sent 
him a cheque for £150 for the poor customer service hed received. 
Mr H thought his annuity  should be back-dated  to start in January as hed asked,  so he 
complained to this service, and initially delayed taking his pension benefits while his 
complaint was being investigated. But in April 2019 Mr H finally returned the form to Aviva. 
Hed decided against taking TFC or providing a pension for his wife, instead he chose the 
option which gave  him an annuity  with the highest annual payment,  based on a policy  
valuation which was now £102,420.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and could understand Mr Hs concerns. 
But while there had been errors and delays Aviva  had paid compensation for this, and it 
made no sense to put him in the position hed be in had they not occurred as hed be worse 
off. 
Mr H still believes  hes lost out, so he asked an ombudsman to issue  a decision.
Ref: DRN65288772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
There are two issues Ill cover in this decision  how Aviva arrived  at the valuation of Mr Hs 
pension plan, and then whether the avoidable  delays  in setting up Mr Hs annuity 
disadvantaged him. 
the valuation
Mr Hs policy  was in Avivas conventional  with-profits plan so was not invested  in one 
specific fund. In simple terms a with-profits fund is a sort of profit-sharing arrangement 
which grows through  the addition of annual  bonuses plus a final bonus when benefits are 
taken. The bonus  rates are reviewed each July and December. Avivas  investor newsletter 
explains the with-profit fund is not totally reliant on the value of the underlying assets, so its 
value was somewhat  protected from the significant falls in stock markets in 2018. The 
returns on the various with-profits sub-funds also fell, but to a much lesser extent, enabling 
an element of smoothing over time.
Aviva agrees  the valuation it provided in November 2018 led to a misunderstanding. What it 
had described  as the current valuation of around  £101,852 was actually a projected 
valuation as at Mr Hs birthday in January  2019,  using the July 2018 final bonus  rate, the 
latest available at the time. The bonus  rate was revised down in January 2019  (for 38 years 
from 32% to 18%), following a review which identified investors from December 1980 when 
Mr H started his plan had benefitted disproportionately compared  to others . His sum 
assured is relatively  high for the premiums hes been paying, due to optimistic  market 
conditions and economic outlook  at that time,  which led to bonuses  for those policies 
accumulating at an accelerated rate compared to the actual investment returns. So the 
accurate valuation of Mr Hs policy in November 2018 would  have been  around £96,000. 
The options  pack  makes  clear the valuation isnt guaranteed. Under the fund value 
information heading it reads The fund value  shown is the current estimated amount 
available should  you choose to take your benefits with us.at  the retirement date 
shown above . In bold it continues This value is not guaranteed and can still go down  or up 
before your retirement date. So even  if Mr H had decided to go ahead based  on this 
valuation rather than wait, he was made  aware  it could change.
The increase  from January  to February 2019 was because the bonus is based on years of 
contributions, and after his birthday Mr H commenced his 39th year,  although the bonus for 
39 years  still reduced from 90% to 72%.  Mr H has asked what the bonus rate would be if he 
remained invested for 40 years, but thats not relevant as hes already taken the irrevocable 
decision to purchase  an annuity. 
I can see Mr H found the explanations  about the performance of his plan confusing,  and the 
November 2018  valuation could have been  explained more  clearly. But overall  I think  he 
experienced a loss of expectation rather than an actual financial loss.
customer service  and delays
Mr H was clear  from the outset how and when  he wished to take his pension  benefits and 
started the process  in what he thought was sufficient time for his birthday in January 2019. It 
Ref: DRN65288773seems he assumed it to be a straightforward  administrative process which could be done by 
post. In fact several steps must be followed from receipt of the retirement options pack, 
including the risk warning call, generating the quotes, selecting the option and then the 
form being returned, before benefits can be taken.  Avivas letter of 31 December 2018  
explained that before Mr Hs application could proceed The Financial  Conduct  Authority 
requires that we ask you certain  questions and identify the key risks that apply to you. This 
is what happened in the call on 8 January 2019  with S from Aviva. 
Although Mr H thought  he knew what he wanted to do, its clear  S explained a number of 
options hed previously been  unaware  of. For example whether to make  provision for his wife 
and if so, at what percentage, whether he wanted a guarantee period, and if the annuity was 
to be paid annually  or monthly and in advance or in arrears. S clarified the quotes  Mr H was 
interested in, and due to the time pressure of his approaching birthday said shed arrange for 
his quotes to be escalated rather than put in the normal queue.  For speed she offered for 
the quotes to be emailed  to him, but Mr H said hed prefer to have them  by post.  She 
explained hed receive the quotes  in a few days and would need to select  the option he 
wanted and send the signed form back, along with a form of ID as the online identification 
process hadnt worked. So Mr H was put on notice nothing could happen  until Aviva received 
his completed form. 
Although they were  generated  two days after the call, for some  reason, the quotes,  based on 
a valuation of £91,675, didnt get sent out to Mr H as promised, which is clearly a failing  on 
Avivas part. Mr H didnt chase as he recalls being told theyd take 2-3 weeks.  But if that had 
been the case hed always have known  it would be very tight to get the completed form back 
to Aviva before his birthday.
 
In February 2019  the value rose to £94,638,  so to ensure Mr H didnt lose out Aviva offered 
to compare it to the value  on the day he returned his form and use whichever  was higher. I 
think thats fair. And because the value  had risen again in April 2019 when Mr H finally 
returned his completed  form, his annuity  is actually based on a valuation of £102,420 which 
is even better than the November 2018  valuation. 
So I agree with the investigator it makes no sense  to put Mr H in the position hed have been 
in if Aviva hadnt delayed sending the quotes, as that would mean  his annuity being based  
on a lower valuation.  And while Mr H says he always wanted his annuity to start as soon 
after his birthday as possible, Aviva could only do this on receipt  of his signed options  form. I 
understand Mr H initially  delayed returning the form as hed complained  to this service  in 
February 2019. Mr H finally returned  the forms in April 2019 and as it was his choice to delay 
it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to make up the earlier  payments. 
summary
I can understand Mr Hs confusion over the policy valuation  and its clear  Aviva made a 
number of errors along the way. But the only avoidable delay was its failure  to send the 
quotes in January, which hasnt disadvantaged Mr H financially. And the £150 Aviva  has 
paid is sufficient compensation for the service issues, so I wont  be asking it to do anything 
more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN65288774Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Sarah Milne 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6528877