K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that the Society  of Lloyds declined a claim for permanent disability under 
her personal  accident insurance. Shes  represented  by her husband in bringing  this 
complaint, but for clarity Ill be referring  to all submissions as being made by Mrs C directly.
background
Mrs C fell over when  she was on a cruise and hurt her knee. Over the following years she 
reported pain and discomfort in her knee  and was assessed by a number of different medical  
practitioners. For a while,  the cause of her pain couldnt be established. But a diagnosis did 
go on to be made some  years later and Mrs C made  a claim for permanent  disability under 
her policy.
Some of the medical  evidence  available at the time reported that Mrs C had suffered a 
permanent disability level of no more that 10%, so the Society  of Lloyds offered her 5% of 
the sum insured under her policy. But Mrs C didnt think that was an accurate reflection of 
the severity of her knee  problems and appointed a different medical practitioner to report  on 
the matter. That practitioner went on to report that Mrs C had suffered a permanent  disability 
level of 70% but, at a later date, reduced  that to 50%. So given the variance  in what  had 
been reported, the Society of Lloyds  sought  to appoint an independent  medical expert. 
With Mrs Cs permission, a mutually  agreed independent medical  expert carried out another 
examination and compiled  a report.  That report said that no evidence  of a permanent  
disability could be found though. So the Society of Lloyds declined  Mrs Cs claim  on the 
basis that the available medical evidence didnt support a clear indication  of a permanent  
disability. 
When Mrs C approached  this service, one of our investigators looked at what had happened. 
They didnt think the medical evidence was consistent in relation to Mrs Cs knee and/or 
level of disability though. And they didnt think the Society of Lloyds had declined Mrs Cs 
claim unreasonably  because of that either.  But Mrs C disagreed and reiterated her concerns, 
so as no agreement  was reached  the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I want  to set out that my 
findings will only focus on the matters that I consider central  to this complaint. That means  I 
wont address every  single point  or argument that Mrs C has raised, and I trust that she 
wont take that as a matter of discourtesy.
Our investigator has already highlighted that there  are differences  within the medical 
evidence. I too can see that different findings have been made in relation  to Mrs Cs knee  
and, in some  instances, the existence of a permanent disability. Without citing every piece of 
evidence available  I note the following. 
In 2013, a Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon examined Mrs C and said her knee felt stable. 
Two years later, that Consultant commented  on Mrs Cs reported pain again but was at a 
loss to make  an accurate  diagnose as to the cause of the reported symptoms.  
Ref: DRN62778152In 2015, an Associate Specialist in Anaesthesia and Pain Management also examined Mrs C 
and said that, other  than an area of extremely localised sensitivity,  there was little to find in 
relation to her knee.  However, they said Mrs C had suffered a classic injury to the 
infrapatellar branch of the peroneal nerve  and advised that type of injury often responded 
well to local treatment. That specialist didnt think Mrs C had suffered any more than 10% 
disability though and, in 2016, said:
Many of the people  we see in our clinic  have extremely high levels  of disability. Whilst I fully 
appreciate that your life is not the same as it was before, you have quite a high level of 
functioning compared to many other  people.
In 2016, a Consultant in Pain Management  also commented on Mrs C reported knee pain. 
They noted  that thorough  investigations and scans had revealed no significant structural 
changes in her knee, and said shed more  likely  than not sustained  an injury  to the peroneal  
nerve. 
That Consultant recommended Mrs C tried further  treatment, and they examined her again  
in 2017. On that occasion, the Consultant reported  a good range of motion in Mrs Cs knee. 
And although they said she was still tender around the head of the fibula where the peroneal 
nerve emerged, they noted her pain had reduced  by 50%.  That Consultant also said it was 
likely that Mrs Cs pain would continue  in the longer term and shed probably need to remain 
on some  form of pain modulating medication. 
However, during  that same year Mrs C also appointed  a Consultant Physician in 
Orthopaedic Medicine to comment  on her knee. That individual  said that Mrs C had no signs  
of an active complex regional  pain syndrome but, her hip mobility was reduced  by 50%, her 
iliotibial band was stiff and sore and, in relation to her having suffered a disability, that:
she  has obviously lost a considerable amount of function in comparison with her pastimes 
and hobbies. [] this injury has given her an estimated disability of approximately  70% as 
far as the level of activity that I would expect her to have  had at this age given her previous 
abilities 
That consultant later reduced  that figure to 50% though. And in 2018 an independent  
medical expert (in this case,  a Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon) said Mrs C walked without 
a stick, both of her hips were completely normal, and there was no swelling of her ankles. 
That independent expert was surprised  by the symmetry of Mrs Cs thigh and calf muscles  
given the pain shed been reporting, and didnt  think  Mrs C had suffered an injury  which  had 
caused a permanent disability:
It is remarkable that Mrs Cs severe  alleged pain is unaccompanied by any physical signs 
such as muscle wasting.  
Mrs C is retired and she appears perfectly  capable  of leading a normal life. The evidence  in 
her records  suggests she remains able to go on cruises with that that entails.  I do not believe 
that Mrs C suffers any permanent dysfunction as a consequence of her knee symptoms. 
Mrs C is now mature and I believe that she suffers the normal loss of function  that 
accompanies advancing  age but I do not believe that Mrs Cs loss of function  is greater than 
what would  be considered normal. [] In conclusion, I believe Mrs Cs organic  percentage 
disability is zero percent.   
Ref: DRN62778153Our investigator has already explained that its not this organisations place to diagnose 
Mrs Cs condition. Instead,  its to consider the available evidence and decide whether  
The Society of Lloyds acted reasonably in declining her claim based on that. 
I am aware  that Mrs C has concerns  about the conduct and capability of the independent 
medical expert. But Im not persuaded that individual wasnt  suitability qualified to produce 
their report.  I also note that Mrs C was furnished  with a copy of the independent  medical 
experts CV prior to her agreeing to them  being  appointed. 
I am also aware that Mrs C thinks another  medical  opinion should be sought, but I dont think 
thats required here. Mrs C has already had a number of different medical practitioners give 
their opinions on both her reported  knee pain and level of disability. And shes  had an 
independent medical expert give their opinion on the matter too. I do, of course,  appreciate 
that Mrs C disagrees with the independent  medical experts report, but I dont think 
the Society of Lloyds  acted unreasonably  in taking its findings into account as part of 
assessing her claim.
The relevant  rules, which are set out in full under  ICOBS and found in the FCA Handbook, 
explain that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and mustnt  unreasonably  
reject them. In this case, Mrs Cs policy defines a permanent  disability  as, A physical or 
mental incapacity which will last for the rest of your life. Having looked at the available 
evidence I acknowledge  that Mrs C has been  reporting ongoing problems  with her knee for a 
long time now. But, as I set out before, there  are differences within the available  evidence 
both in relation  to her knee pain and whether  shes suffered  a permanent disability. So Im 
not persuaded that the Society of Lloyds acted unreasonably in concluding  there wasnt  a 
clear indication of a permanent disability. 
Id like to reassure Mrs C that my findings are in no way any discredit to the pain and 
discomfort that shes reported following her fall in 2012. And I do, of course, wish her well in 
relation to that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6277815