K821x#15complaint
Ms W is represented  by her solicitors.  Her complaint alleges that Craig  Mitchell (CM)  is 
responsible for facilitating her unsuitable investment,  in 2017, of £40,000 in 400 UK Property 
Development Solutions PLC (UKPDS) bonds;  and that CM did so by completing and 
signing an undertaking (that was required for the investment) that it had assessed the bonds 
as suitable for her. She claims compensation.
CM disputes  the complaint and says it/he never met Ms W, never spoken to her, never wrote 
(in any form) to her, had nothing to do with her decision to invest in the bonds  and never 
assessed suitability  of the bonds  for her. The complaint and this decision are about CM the 
regulated entity.  However, the decision also refers  to CM the individual  within the regulated 
entity. 
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  early last year and concluded that this 
service lacked jurisdiction to address its merits, because he did not consider that Ms W was 
an eligible complainant. This was based on the following main  findings: 
Ms Ws acceptance  that it was an unauthorised third party  and not CM  who 
engaged with her for the purpose of recommending/arranging  the bonds; and that 
she had no dealings  with CM until 2018,  after the investment, when she noticed 
its/his details on documentation for the investment and contacted it/him.
Acknowledgement that the written  undertaking CM gave states that he had provided 
advice, but it is accepted that he did not actually do so, and that he likely gave the 
undertaking in order  to help the unauthorised third party  involved in arranging  the 
investment progress with the arrangements. 
However, the investigator  noted that he had challenged CMs claim about being 
unaware of the undertaking  he was signing,  given that the undertaking clearly stated 
its purpose, but CM did not respond; noted that it is highly  improbable that CM signed 
the undertaking unwittingly; noted that CM had knowingly made  a false statement by 
giving the undertaking; and noted that the investment was only available  to those 
who had received advice so Ms Ws investment  happened as a consequence  of 
CMs undertaking.
Despite CMs role in the investment, the investigator concluded that it/he had no 
direct dealings  with Ms W and provided  no direct service  to her; she was neither 
its/his client nor potential  client; and so, she did not qualify as an eligible 
complainant. 
Another investigator reviewed the above  outcome and concluded that Ms W is an eligible 
complainant and that this service has jurisdiction to address the merits of her complaint. CM 
disagreed and the matter was determined by an ombudsman, who reached the same 
conclusion. The second investigator proceeded to address the complaints  merits and found,  
mainly, as follows:
The complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN67432472CM breached its/his  regulatory duties by facilitating Ms Ws investment through  a 
false undertaking and it/he is responsible for that undertaking.
The bonds were  not the typical kind of corporate  bonds; they were  mini-bonds, 
usually issued by companies who are too small or too young to be able to raise  
capital through  more  traditional ways; so they carried higher risks associated with the 
uncertain prospects  of such  companies  and they would be the sort of investment 
considered by an experienced investor who was prepared to take high risks; Ms W 
was not such  an investor, there is no evidence to suggest otherwise and there is no 
evidence to support  CMs  undertaking  that the bonds were  suitable for her.
The bonds were  unsuitable for Ms W and she would not have  invested  in them but 
for CMs undertaking. She should receive  compensation (based on a benchmark 
comparison exercise) for the unsuitable  investment.
Ms Ws solicitors confirmed her acceptance of this outcome. CM did not accept the outcome. 
It/He essentially repeated its/his stance  on the complaint (as summarised  at the outset  of 
this decision) and said Ms Ws claim that it/he advised her is untrue. It/He  also referred to 
having no regulatory authority to advise on investments. The matter was then referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability
Evidence of Ms Ws investor  profile  in 2017 is very limited, because nothing meaningful 
exists from the unauthorised third-party firm/individual who Ms W says recommended  and 
arranged the bond investment; and because CM, who gave the undertaking for assessing 
suitability of the bonds, did nothing  to assess her profile. 
Available evidence  suggests that she believed the bonds were a safe loan-based investment 
and that she followed  guidance from the unauthorised arranger on this basis. She explained 
to us that she also relied on knowledge  that her work colleague had made the same 
investment through the arranger at the time; and that the capital she invested  had come from 
a lump sum occupational pension payment she had received. 
Overall, on balance and in the absence  of fact-finding documentation  from 2017  which 
does not exist but would have been helpful  I do not consider that Ms W sought an 
investment with risks. It appears more likely (than not) that the characteristics of a bond,  in 
which capital is usually  expected to be returned upon maturity,  were sold to her in order  to 
give the semblance of her capital not being at risk. I have not seen evidence to suggest 
otherwise. Her solicitor says she had a limited  knowledge of risks at the time. That is 
possible. Even if that was not the case,  I have  not seen evidence that she wanted  to put her 
pension lump sum capital  at risk, so I consider that this is the profile upon which the UKPDS 
bonds should be considered.
Documentation about the bonds has been shared with this service. They had a maturity term 
of 12 months (extendable to 18 months) and were  used by UKPDS  to raise capital (targeted  
at £20 million) which would then be issued as loans to a third-party firm for the purpose  of its 
Ref: DRN67432473property development/acquisition and sales business. The idea being  that the proceeds from 
property sales would  be used to service the loans from UKPDS and UKPDS  receipts  from 
the third-party firm would be used to pay the coupons on the bonds and to redeem the 
bonds.
There were a number of layers of risk involved in the above arrangement.  For example, the 
bond issuer (UKPDS)  was not the end user of the capital raised and does not appear to 
have had any control over the third-party end user; in this context and from the perspective  
of a bond investor, there appears  to have been no due diligence  conducted on UKPDS  
and/or the property  development  firm and their activities; then there are the high risks usually 
considered inherent  within property-based investments,  especially in the context  of the 
relatively short 12 to 18 months maturity  term of the bonds and in the context of the bonds 
brochures confirmation that the property  development  firms  operations were based on 
using an  advanced computer search  algorithm  to identify suitable development sites. 
It could be argued that underlying operations which did not quite feature decisions based  on 
due care, skill and analysis  by experienced managers mismatched the level of reliability and 
convention a no, or even low, risk investor would reasonably  expect.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that the bonds  matched Ms Ws probable risk 
averse approach  towards the investment.  They were  therefore unsuitable, and she is entitled 
to compensation  for her investment in them, and from the party responsible.
Responsibility
I understand CMs disagreement with the idea of being responsible for Ms Ws investment  
decision and for the complaint  especially as the set of findings from the first investigator,  
summarised in the first bullet point above,  are not in dispute. Having said this, the same 
applies to the first investigators findings  as summarised in the third bullet point above, so 
CM cannot  reasonably claim  to have no role in Ms Ws case.
The matter  of CMs responsibility   in terms of Ms Ws eligibility to present her complaint 
against it/him  has already been  determined by an Ombudsman and I have not seen cause 
to review that determination. CMs completed, signed and dated undertaking is pivotal to this 
case and there is no feasible way for it/him to get around it. It is also impossible for him to 
claim, with any form of credibility, that he gave the undertaking whilst unaware of what he 
was doing or of its effect. The undertaking clearly states  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's  Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
Confirmation of independent financial advice was a pre-requisite to the bond investment. 
Hence why the above undertaking  was required before an investors (or potential investors)  
application could  be accepted. CM gave that undertaking  and by doing  so it/he made Ms Ws 
investment possible.  The investment would not have happened  without the undertaking and I 
have not seen evidence that, if CM did not provide  it, she would have sought an undertaking 
from elsewhere. I appreciate that it is possible the arranger  might  have persuaded her to do 
so and might  have recommended another firm for that purpose,  but I have not seen 
evidence that this was probable.
CM undertook that it/he had assessed suitability of the investment for Ms W. I do not have 
reliable evidence of what happened between CM and the arranger (and/or the individual  who 
Ref: DRN67432474managed to secure his undertaking for Ms Ws bond application) so I cannot reasonably 
dismiss the possibility that, even  without any direct engagement with Ms W, CM could have 
discussed suitability  of her application  with said individual, to the extent of amounting to an 
assessment. If CM says that did not happen, the fact remains  that CM gave express 
assurance and confirmation  in the undertaking that it assessed suitability, so CM is 
accountable for that undertaking.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I consider that CM is responsible for 
Ms Ws unsuitable  investment in the UKPDS  bonds.
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Ms W as close as I can to the position she would probably  
now be in if she had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds.  I take the 
view that she would  have  behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what she 
would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given 
available information,  as summarised above, of her profile at the time.
what must  CM do?
To compensate Ms W fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of her bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay her compensation  in the form of the difference  between  the fair value  
and the actual value of the investment. However,  if the actual value is greater than 
the fair value , no compensation  for financial loss is payable. 
Pay her interest, if set out below. Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  
awarded.
Provide her with details of the calculation of compensation  in a clear and simple  
format.
investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
the UKPDS 
bonds    still  existsthe Bank of England  
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement   not applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero.  This is 
provided Ms W agree to CM taking ownership of the investment, if CM wishes  to. If that is 
not possible then CM may request an undertaking from Ms W that she repay to CM any 
amount she may receive from the investment  in future.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed  rate bonds  as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly  average  rate for fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 
Ref: DRN6743247517 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates  should  be applied  to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other  payment  out of the investments should  be deducted  from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals  all those payments  and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because Ms W appears  to have had a risk 
averse profile with regards to the investment. The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be 
a fair measure for someone who wanted  to achieve  a reasonable return  without risk to 
capital. I consider that this benchmark  broadly reflects Ms Ws profile and reflects  the sort of 
return she could have  obtained from an investment suited to her profile.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Ws complaint and I order  Craig  Mitchell to 
calculate and pay her compensation as set out above. I also order Craig Mitchell to provide 
Ms W with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6743247