K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied  under a contract hire 
agreement with Alphabet (GB)  Ltd.
background
In December 2018 Miss L was supplied with a car and entered  into a contract  hire 
agreement with Alphabet.
Since January 2019 Miss L has experienced problems  with the car cutting out intermittently.
The car was tested by an Audi dealership and was also independently inspected.  No faults  
have been found and the issue hasnt been  replicated during testing.
The car is displaying a universal fault code but its not clear  what this relates  to.
Miss L believes  the car isnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants to reject it. Alphabet has 
declined to allow this because it says no fault has been found.
Our investigator looked at all of the available  information but said he wasnt  able to conclude 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
Miss L didnt  agree.  She says she doesnt feel safe driving her children in a car which cuts 
out intermittently.  She wants Alphabet to investigate  the fault code further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Alphabet has supplied the car to Miss L under a contract hire agreement theres an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if 
they are of  a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances including (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid.
Miss L and Alphabet disagree about whether the car had a point of supply fault.  In order  to 
reach a decision  I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss L says she experienced issues with the car cutting out shortly  after the point of supply. 
Where a fault presents itself within the first 6 months its generally up to the business to put 
things right, or to show that the car was of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help in deciding whether or not a car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. In this case,  an independent inspection was carried out by 
ACE. The car was tested  for 4 days over a distance  of 764 miles but the engineer was 
unable to replicate  the issue with the engine cutting out. The report  concluded there was no 
evidence of a fault.
Ref: DRN65960722Ive taken into account the other evidence, including a report from Audi Assist and a report  
from an independent garage.  Ive also taken into account the comments  made by the Audi 
engineer.
In relation to the Audi Assists report, this says that no faults were detected but that a 
universal ghost code  was found.  The technician  didnt know what the code related to but 
said it had nothing to do with the car cutting out.
The independent garage told Miss L it would be difficult to diagnose an intermittent fault and 
that if Audi with all its technology  had been unable to find the fault, it was unlikely that any 
other garage  would  be able to do so.
The Audi engineer  said hed been  unable to replicate  the fault despite extensive testing. He 
also said there were no fault codes  stored.
On balance, and taking into account  the available evidence, Im unable to safely  conclude 
that the car has a fault.
I understand Miss L wants the ghost code  investigated further. However,  the Audi engineer  
who found the code has already stated that it isnt related to the car cutting out. So I dont 
think theres any benefit in investigating the ghost code further.
Taking everything into account,  theres  no evidence of a point of supply fault. Because  of 
this, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply. Im 
satisfied that Alphabet  has dealt with the complaint  fairly and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6596072