K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (SDFC) unfairly defaulted  a 
catalogue shopping account in November 2017.  
background
Miss S opened a catalogue shopping  account with SDFC  in March 2001. Miss S says that 
she was able to afford  the credit and operated her account well until she started to 
experience financial  hardship in February 2010. She says that she made  SDFC aware of her 
problems at the time and has remained in regular contact ever since.
I can see that over the intervening years  Miss S has shared details of a serious and ongoing  
medical condition  with SDFC, and has consistently made token repayments towards her 
outstanding account balance. In return I can see that SDFC has waived any interest and 
charges that would have been due on Miss Ss account since March 2010   although it 
should be noted that part of that interest was only waived after Miss S had made a complaint 
to this Service in 2011.
Each of the various repayment arrangements that Miss S made with SDFC were  time-limited 
 they generally  lasted  for between six and twelve months. So at the end of those 
arrangements SDFC began recording Miss Ss payments as having  failed since she didnt 
make the contractual minimum payment on the account  although she did continue  to make 
the previously agreed token payments.  Once  a new token payment arrangement had been 
set up the payments on Miss Ss account  were again reported as being made on time.
In November 2017 SDFC wrote to Miss S to inform her that it intended to default her 
account. It gave her two weeks  to repay  the full outstanding balance. As Miss S was unable 
to make that repayment  the account  was defaulted. SDFC says that it did this to enable  
Miss S to draw a line under the debt, although the default would remain  on her credit  file for 
six years. SDFC said that it had no intention of actively  pursuing  Miss Ss debt, or selling it to 
a third party debt collection company.  It also said it would continue  to suspend any 
administration or interest charges on the account.
Miss Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think it had 
been fair to delay  applying the default on Miss Ss account until November 2017.  He thought 
that when Miss S told SDFC in 2014 that, although  her health was at that time improving,  her 
financial situation remained  just as difficult, it should have decided at that point there was 
little prospect of Miss S being able to repay the debt.  So he recommended that the default 
be backdated to March 2014.
SDFC accepted  our adjudicators recommendation. Miss S said that she would also accept 
the recommendation, but only if SDFC additionally agreed to write  off her debt. SDFC 
repeated its earlier offer that it would no longer actively pursue the debt. But it said it would 
provide an unfair picture of Miss Ss credit  history if it showed the debt as having  been 
settled. Our adjudicator  thought that what SDFC had said was fair.
Miss S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss S accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
Ref: DRN69600342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Miss S says that she started  facing  financial problems in early 2010. From the information 
I have seen it appears that any interest or charges that had been added to her account since 
that date have been removed from her outstanding balance.  Miss S accepts  that the balance 
has been incurred  due to her spending on the account, and has taken full responsibility for 
that outstanding balance.  She says that it has always been her intention to fully repay her 
account once  her circumstances improve.
Miss Ss complaint relates in the main  to the decision  taken by SDFC in November 2017 to 
default her account.  But she has also asked whether it would be appropriate for SDFC to 
write off her outstanding balance given her continuing medical condition,  and the length of 
time that her balance  has been outstanding. So I will deal with both issues in this decision.
The regulator at the time Miss S first started  facing problems was the Office  of Fair Trading. 
It required lenders to treat customers who were facing financial difficulties with 
understanding and due consideration.  In particular lenders were encouraged to consider  
accepting token repayments from consumers whose budgets were in deficit  to allow  them a 
reasonable period of time to recover from an unexpected income shock.
But I dont think there was ever any intention for such arrangements  to be prolonged in 
nature. In fact, when  those arrangements were first introduced in 2010  the token payments 
were not expected to last for longer than six months.  After  that time it was hoped that a 
consumer would be back on their feet financially and able to resume  their normal  
repayments. Or otherwise  an alternative form of debt remedy  might need to be considered.
On the one hand, it can be argued  that SDFC treated Miss S with a great deal of 
understanding and sympathy in allowing her token  repayments to run for such  a long time. 
But I do think a point  should have been reached, far earlier  than 2017,  when  SDFC should  
have realised it was unlikely that Miss Ss finances would recover  in the short  term. Even 
with the benefit of hindsight there  isnt an obvious time at which  I think  that point should have 
been reached. Our adjudicator thought that point  might have been reached in early 2014, 
after Miss S said her health  was showing signs of improvement, but that hadnt  led to an 
improvement in her financial situation.
Both Miss S and SDFC have said they are willing to accept the default being applied  with an 
effective date of March 2014. I dont think,  for the reasons  Ive given above, that would be an 
unreasonable point for a default to have been  applied. So as part of putting things right, that 
is what I will ask SDFC to do.
I therefore now need to consider what should  happen to the outstanding balance  that 
remains on Miss Ss account.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that SDFC was irresponsible to allow Miss S to take this 
amount of credit. Miss S has said that for a number  of years she was able to afford to 
manage her credit  well. It wasnt until 2010  that she first faced any financial problems. And 
as Ive explained earlier her outstanding balance doesnt contain  any interest or charges that 
SDFC would  normally have added  after that time. 
Ref: DRN69600343Miss S has provided us with guidance  given  to lenders by the Money  Advice Liaison Group. 
It particularly deals  with how lenders  might  consider writing  off debts owed by consumers 
with similar  health issues to those  being  experienced  by Miss S that are long-term in nature. 
But the health of a consumer is only one of a number of matters the guidance  suggests  a 
lender should  consider. Here Miss S borrowed money that she intended to repay. And 
Miss S tells us that she has chosen not to seek insolvency remedies such  as bankruptcy or a 
debt relief order as she was keen to repay  what she owed rather than avoid her obligations.
I dont think it is right, in the circumstances of this complaint, for me to direct  SDFC to write 
off the debt. But I have noted  that SDFC has confirmed that a decision has been  reached 
that it will no longer pursue Miss S for the outstanding balance  or sell the debt to a third 
party. But in order for the debt to be shown as satisfied on Miss Ss credit  report she would 
need to pay off what she owes. I appreciate that Miss S has concerns that SDFC might alter 
its stance and begin seeking  repayment  of the debt in the future. I have  no reason to think  
that is likely  to happen, but whilst I would find that change of approach  to be disappointing,  
I cannot say that it would be unfair  for it to do so.
So in summary I dont intend  to direct SDFC to write off the debt that Miss S owes.  But 
SDFC should alter the default date of the account in its records, and the information  it sends  
to credit reference agencies, to show the account should  have  been  defaulted  in March 2014
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ss complaint and direct  Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6960034