K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a further  advance on their mortgage in 1993.  Mr and 
Mrs P paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which  didnt attract interest.  It 
covered them in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide dont have  the documents from the sale, which  is understandable given just how 
long ago it was, and given that the account  has been closed for well over two decades. 
Indeed, under data protection regulations, Nationwide were required to dispose of Mr and 
Mrs Ps records after so long, rather than hold onto them. Mr and Mrs P dont remember  
buying PPI, but thats also understandable given all the time thats passed, and since buying 
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
By the time they were  sold PPI, Mr and Mrs P had already had a mortgage and further  
advance with Nationwide for quite some  time.  And those were  approved  without PPI  so 
they wouldve  known  they didnt have  to take out PPI to get approved for their secured 
borrowing. It would have  been a very serious  failing for Nationwide  to have added  the policy 
without Mr and Mrs Ps permission, and Ive got no evidence which shows  thats what it did. 
Nor have  I seen any wider  problems  with its sales process from the time. So I dont think  
I can fairly conclude that Nationwide  misled  Mr and Mrs P here. I think  its more likely  that it 
gave them a choice  about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. The requirements  
were stricter  on Nationwide  if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs P Ive assumed 
it did. That means it had to check the policy  was right for them.  And based on what  Ive seen  
of their circumstances  at the time,  I think it was.
Ref: DRN65672352For example, Mr and Mrs P dont seem  to have been affected by any of the policys main 
exclusions or limitations. While they had some benefits through work, the PPI covered them 
for far longer and paid out on top. They  had other  insurance policies,  but they covered 
different things and werent relevant here.  And though I understand Mr and Mrs Ps family 
mightve been happy to help, this policy meant they wouldnt have to ask their family to pay 
the mortgage. And there was always the chance  theyd be unable to help when needed. 
Further, the mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ps responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been  
suitable for the adviser to have recommended  they rely on someone else to pay it. Its worth 
bearing in mind that this lending was secured on Mr and Mrs Ps property, and if they fell 
behind on their payments  they risked losing their home. So I think the PPI couldve  really 
been useful for Mr and Mrs P in protecting their home and giving some  peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs P about  PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  it doesnt look like Mr and Mrs P were 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful 
for them in case something went wrong. Indeed, Mrs P explained that at the time of the sale 
she had a good understanding of these policies.  So she wouldve understood how it worked 
and how suitable  it wouldve  been in her circumstances.  Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely  to have put Mr and Mrs P off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6567235