K822xcomplaint 
Ms W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly  increased  
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year even when no claims were made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms W took out, will continue  to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Ms W. It has accepted  
the information it gave Ms W about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £250  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because the amount is 
unlikely to cover future increases to her insurance  policy and her pets have pre-existing 
conditions that other  insurers  wont cover  if she wants to change provider. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Ms Ws policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the 
policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Ms Ws premium has seen increases in excess  of inflation, even when claims havent 
been made against the policy, there are other factors that insurers consider when setting 
premiums. I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA has treated her differently to how it 
would have treated  any other policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge 
her a lower premium going  forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Ms W distress as, due to the medical conditions  her 
pets have now she cant find equivalent  cover elsewhere. And I recognise the that Ms Ws 
policy is likely to see continuing  increases in the premium in future years which may mean 
the policy becomes  more  difficult to afford.
Ref: DRN69991962But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms W the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Ms W having cover at a fixed or capped premium  this type of policy typically 
doesnt exist.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position.  
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Ms W has 
experienced. I think it fairly compensates  Ms W for the trouble and upset  shes  been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Ms W £250  compensation  is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6999196