K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out with a credit  card in 1999. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr B took out in 1999.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Capital One disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint because I dont think Capital One gave Mr B clear 
enough information about the PPI. I say this because  Mr B has a pre-existing medical 
condition which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. So he couldnt claim on the policy 
for everything he expected to be able to. And I dont  think  that Mr B wouldnt have wanted 
the policy if Capital  One had given  him enough  information about the restrictions on the PPI. 
So, I think Mr B has lost out because of what Capital One did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Capital Ones comments, including  what  it has said the NHS UK 
website advising [condition] itself doesnt usually cause any symptoms  therefore it 
doesnt think it is sufficiently serious  enough to be labelled a pre-existing condition.
But just because a condition doesnt  usually have  symptoms,  doesnt mean  that it is not 
serious. Mr Bs condition also puts him at high risk of other potentially fatal conditions  and 
he was also aware  that he had it, even if he didnt have any symptoms that were manifesting  
at the time. So I still think I should  uphold the complaint. 
putting things right
Capital One should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Capital One should find out how much  Mr B would have owed when he closed  him store  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr B owed when he closed 
him account and what he would  have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN68349002If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Capital One should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mr B would have 
owed when he closed him account from when he closed it until he gets the refund.  The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Capital  One works out what Mr B would  have owed  each month without PPI  
Mr B paid more  than enough to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr B paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mr B wouldve owed Capital One something on his store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Capital One should tell Mr B what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Capital One (Europe) Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6834900