K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complained  about esure  Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim under  her motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mrs Ws car suffered water damage and so she claimed under her policy.  Esure inspected 
her car and decided that it was uneconomical to repair. So esure paid her cars market  value 
less her policy excess. And, as shed decided to buy her car back,  they also deducted  a 
salvage charge.  But Mrs W said that esure took too long to return  her car to her and when 
they did it had new damage, which she believed esures salvage  agents had caused. Esure  
at first disagreed but later agreed to pay her cars repair costs. They also paid her 
compensation of £150. But she didnt think it was enough for what she said was about  four 
months of delay and inconvenience theyd caused  her.
The investigator recommended  that her complaint be upheld. He thought  that although esure 
had agreed to pay for her cars repair, they should also pay her £300 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience, additional  to the £150  theyd  already paid her. Mrs W agreed  to 
this but esure did not and so her case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs W had a number of complaints about how handled her claim. She said that after she 
made her claim for water damage  in about  mid February, esure took too long to inspect her 
car. Esure said that theyd  offered her a repair estimate at their garage  promptly, but Mrs W 
wanted to use her own garage. So esure had to wait until they'd received the estimate  from 
that garage.  But after they got it, they decided within about  a week that her car was 
uneconomical for them to repair. So they didnt feel that there was any unnecessary  delay at 
that stage. Or, if there  was, it was outside their control. I agree and I dont think that esure 
acted unreasonably then.
Mrs W was also unhappy that esure  didnt tell her she could buy her car back after theyd 
decided it was uneconomical to repair. She felt that if theyd told her this sooner, shed have 
got her car back sooner,  and it might not have  got damaged. But esure  said it wasnt  their 
policy to offer buy back, particularly when a car had water or electrical problems. However 
they said that they would consider this if a consumer wanted  to buy the car back, and then it 
would be subject to a salvage  deduction. 
I dont think thats  an unreasonable position.  This Service doesnt expect an insurer  to offer 
salvage as matter of course, so I dont think that esure did anything wrong in not offering her 
a buy back option.  I see that over various calls Mrs W discussed  with esure the implications 
of buying back  her car, and didnt say shed  buy it until about mid April,  after esure had 
already offered her cars market value. When she said shed buy it, she agreed  to esures 
proposed salvage deduction and so they raised  a new cheque, with that amount deducted. 
Ref: DRN60255012She complained about esures  delay  in returning her car, but I think that the time taken was 
more likely attributable  to Mrs W considering  buying  her car back, and I dont think that esure 
caused  delay  by not being able to find her car, even  if at first they couldnt.
It would appear that they returned it from their salvage agents  about ten days  after she said 
she would  buy it, so again I dont think thats  unreasonable.
But when she got her car back, Mrs W noticed  that there was bodywork damage  that she 
said hadnt been there the day before esure  picked  her car up from her chosen garage, 
when shed last seen it.She reported this to esure  the next day, and sent them photos of the 
damage. She told them her garage had suggested  that the cars bodywork damage was 
consistent with it being  winched. She felt that it must have happened while in esures care.  
She got an estimate for her cars  repairs of about  £1,800. She wanted esure to pay that to 
put her car back into the condition it had been  in before theyd collected it.
But esure denied  responsibility for any damage to her car while  it had been with their 
salvage agents or otherwise under their control. They  said they had evidence that her car 
had the bodywork damage before their agents  had collected it as salvage. Mrs W has shown 
us that she spent numerous phone  calls and emails trying to establish  what they meant.  
Esure said they had photos in support of their view. But when Mrs W was able to get esure 
to send her the photos, she realised that they were  the photos  that she herself had taken,  
but presented  as if theyd been taken  by an independent assessor. Esure apologised for this 
mistake, then reconsidered her complaint and agreed to pay for the estimated repairs. They 
also paid her compensation  of £150.  
But Mrs W felt that they took too long to agree to pay for the repairs. She was also upset that 
she felt that theyd used her own evidence against her. She felt theyd  implied she was a liar. 
And she said shed  found  it stressful to have  to investigate and challenge them. During  that 
period she remained  without the use of her car, although it appears  that she had a garage 
courtesy car during the actual repairs. 
The investigator recommended  that esure  pay Mrs W additional  compensation of £300. But 
esure didnt  agree. They didnt agree that the damage to the car was caused while  it was in 
their care. They said that theyd only agreed  to pay for the repair as a gesture of goodwill, 
and didnt try to get other evidence but instead gave  Mrs W the benefit of the doubt. But I 
dont think that reasoning  necessarily takes  esure any further.  They had the opportunity to 
try to get evidence as to how and where the damage had happened,  but chose not to and 
instead they mistakenly relied on the wrong  evidence, which  caused  further  delay. And while  
its not for this Service to decide if or where  damage  occurred, and theres no persuasive 
objective evidence  of the cars condition before collection for salvage, Mrs Ws photos do 
show significant bodywork damage and the repair  costs were not insubstantial.  And given 
that Mrs Ws claim was because of water damage, to internal and electrics,  and not to 
bodywork, I would have  expected that if such damage had been there already that her 
garage would have mentioned it to her. She also reported it very promptly  after she got her 
car back from esure. Taking all these things together, I dont think  it implausible that her car 
was damaged in esures care. 
It was esures role to decide whether it was more likely that not that the damage occurred 
while the car was in their care. But I dont think that they did properly investigate that or 
review the evidence fairly or in a reasonable time.   
Ref: DRN60255013Esure did however  agree  to pay the cost of the repairs shed been quoted, and I think that 
was fair of them. I can see that Mrs W was at first worried that there might turn out to be 
more repairs needed than esure  agreed  to pay, but that doesnt seem  to have transpired as 
shes not mentioned  any further repair costs. 
However esures actions  clearly put Mrs W to inconvenience and caused her stress. She 
had to investigate  and challenge  their decision not to pay for the cars damage, and it was 
about two months  before  they agreed  to pay for it. And I can see that it must have been very 
galling and frustrating  for her to find her own evidence being  used against her. She also 
remained without the car shed  paid to buy back,  and only had a courtesy car during the 
period it was being repaired. So I think that an additional £300 of compensation does 
reasonably reflect the distress  and inconvenience  Mrs W experienced over this period and I 
think that esure should pay her £300  compensation for the way they handled her claim after 
returning her car. This is in addition to the £150 they have already paid her.
I see that Mrs W was also unhappy that a claim had been recorded  against her. But, as the 
investigator explained, Mrs W did claim under  her policy and esure  paid that claim. So theres  
no reason why it shouldnt be recorded as a claim, like any other  claim under  the policy. And 
that may impact her future insurance  premiums. She also wanted esure to reimburse her 
policy excess, and assure  her that she wouldnt lose her a claims discount (NCD) .But its 
normal for a consumer to have to pay their excess on any claim. Although an excess  can be 
recoverable from another  party, her claim was about  water  damage so there wasnt another  
party in this case. So I agree that she was liable  to pay the excess. As regards her NCD, it 
appears that she has paid to protect it, and so esure  said that it would not be affected. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs W compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mrs W 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If esure  consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mrs W how much they have taken  off, and give Mrs W a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6025501