K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Miss As credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.
Miss As main  complaint is that given her significant  sick pay entitlement there  was no need 
of an insurance policy  to protect  her credit card repayments. She also told us that if the costs  
versus benefits, as well as the optionality, of the policy had been made clear, then Miss A 
wouldve declined the policy.
Miss A has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss As complaint. Ill explain  my reasons.
Miss A was eligible for the PPI when she took it out.
I find Bank of Scotland made Miss A aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. She signed  separately in the PPI box on the credit card application form to have the 
insurance added on, making it clear that she wanted to have the policy. She couldve left this 
part of the form blank if she hadnt  wanted  PPI at the time. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her.
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Miss A chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. Miss A told us she was entitled to 6 months full sick pay, followed 
by 6 months half sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid more  than her minimum credit card 
repayments in addition to this sick pay, for up to 12 months if she couldnt  work, giving her a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time. 
And it wouldve paid out if she lost her job unexpectedly. She doesnt appear to have had 
significant other means she could have relied  on. 
Taking everything into account,  I cant reasonably  say that Miss A couldnt have benefitted 
from the PPI. 
Ref: DRN65358042Miss A wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
reasonably priced  and apparently affordable when she signed up to it. It was open  to Miss A 
to cancel the policy at any time if she decided she didnt want  to pay for PPI. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Miss A wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss A.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
Bank of Scotland plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Miss A about that. Because  Bank  of Scotland 
plc didnt tell Miss A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6535804