K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for their mortgage  in 
1998 in one of the banks branches. The cover gave  them  accident,  sickness  and
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs C say they had no idea PPI was added  to their account.  And their representative  
argues Lloyds misled  them and took advantage of their age. I cant  know what  was 
discussed in the meeting but Ive thought carefully about these comments  and looked  at the 
paperwork from the sale. Mr and Mrs C completed  and signed a separate PPI application 
form and direct debit mandate for the PPI. The benefit was split 70:30  between Mr and 
Mrs C which  suggests to me there was discussion about the product and their circumstances 
between the parties.  And I dont think there was anything on the forms that could reasonably 
have led them to believe  PPI was mandatory.  Their  representative  also argues Mr and Mrs C 
may have  signed  for the PPI, but they did so thinking they were signing for the mortgage.  
But as Ive said the PPI was a separate application form, and I think its reasonable to expect  
they would  have read what they were agreeing to, before signing.
 
So, overall, I think Lloyds  made it clear  that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs C chose to 
take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think that it was. Mr C told us 
he was entitled  to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to his work  benefits  and for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim. Mrs C wasnt entitled  to any sick pay. It also gave  them up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. Theyve told us they had life and critical illness insurances but these 
cover different events  and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments  in the same way 
as PPI. Mr and Mrs C were borrowing quite a large sum of money  over a long period, 
secured on their home.  And the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been 
serious for them. So, overall,  I think the PPI would  have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if they 
were sick or lost their job(s).
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before deciding
Ref: DRN61093622to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made  clear  but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed  out the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. But Mr and Mrs C dont appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions. So I dont think better information  about the policy wouldve changed their 
mind about  buying  PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6109362