K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the service he has received from NewDay  Ltd and the action it took 
when he was unable  to access his Aqua credit card account on-line.  
background 
Mr B says he was locked out from NewDays credit card on-line system so he couldnt verify 
the balance and transactions on his account.  As a result  he received several telephone calls 
from NewDays collections team because hed missed a payment. But Mr B says these calls 
were received on a Sunday. Yet when  he tried to call back  via customer  services, he found 
that NewDays office was closed to incoming calls on a weekend. Mr B says these business 
practices were unfair and that NewDay had breached  the terms of his account. 
Mr B agreed to clear  the arrears on the account  and said he intended to set up a monthly  
payment to repay  10% of the balance outstanding. But the account wasnt  closed;  he 
accrued further  interest and received more calls from the collections team.  Mr B says this is 
unfair when  hed made an agreement to bring the account back  into order  and made  a 
reasonable proposal to settle  the debt.
Mr B also asked for evidence of his signed credit  agreement  and for paper statements to be 
sent to him so he could verify  the transactions and balance outstanding. But he says he 
didnt receive the statements and that NewDay cancelled his direct  debit and subsequently  
sold his outstanding balance to a third party. 
Mr B feels  that NewDay is treating him unfairly  when hes told them he has a medical 
condition and that the problems he was experiencing  stemmed  from being locked out from 
the online system which hed already made it aware of. 
NewDay says that in April 2018  Mr Bs direct debit payment was returned unpaid  by his 
bank. Consequently, his credit card account  went into its collections process. It says it wrote  
to Mr B on two occasions to let him know  that it had not been able to collect his direct debit 
and his payment  of £61.51 was overdue. As the payment wasnt made,  its collections team 
contacted Mr B by phone. 
NewDay acknowledges that Mr B did ask for his account to be closed  and this didnt happen  
straight away. But it goes  on to say that as there was an outstanding balance, the account 
could only have been closed for further  purchases  and that interest and charges would still 
accrue on the debt outstanding and regular payments were still required to be made. So the 
account could  not have  been recorded  as settled. The account was subsequently closed for 
further purchases.
It says it continued  to correspond with Mr B and acknowledges that he cleared the initial 
arrears and covered  the next payment due. But a further direct  debit payment for £63.23  was 
returned unpaid  by Mr Bs bank and he incurred the relevant late payment and returned  
direct debit payment  charges. So it cancelled Mr Bs direct debit payment to prevent any 
further charges.  But it says this was done  with Mr Bs agreement.
Ref: DRN62752272NewDay says it explained to Mr B  when he asked why he was not receiving  paper 
statements, that he requested statements to be sent by e-mail when he opened his account. 
And that this can only be amended by him on-line. But when it tried to provide Mr B with the 
details he needed  to re-set up on-line access, Mr B declined the offer. It says it ultimately 
provided paper statements in June 2018 after a Data  Subject Access Request was made.    
NewDay also acknowledges that Mr B made it aware of his medical  condition.  And it did 
offer to refund some over limit charges as a gesture of goodwill. But it was unable to 
consider Mr Bs request to refund interest/reduce the interest rate on the account  as he 
declined to complete  an income and expenditure breakdown. It also pointed out that the 10% 
payment Mr B offered to make was more than the minimum monthly contractual payment 
required. But it says that as no further  payments were received the account was defaulted 
and subsequently sold to a third party in line with the terms of the account.  
Unhappy with NewDay Mr B referred his complaint  to us. One of our investigators  has 
looked at Mr Bs complaint but she didnt  think NewDay had acted  unfairly so she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr B remained unhappy  saying - in summary, that he doesnt think its unreasonable  to 
expect NewDay to provide paper statements; asking for income and expenditure information 
is unreasonable for an account closure request; he hasnt  been able to verify the balance, 
its possible the balance  sold to the third party is fraudulent; and, that NewDay didnt offer 
any reasonable adjustments for him to access his account.
And so the complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number  of detailed points, which I have read and considered. And hes 
made his strength of feeling about this matter very clear. But as an informal  dispute 
resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion  with the 
minimum of formality. In doing  so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point made, 
but to concentrate on the main issues.
And the crux of the issue here is the action NewDay took and the customer  service Mr B 
received when he missed  a payment  to his credit card account because he couldnt access 
his account on-line. So Ive thought  about  all of this very carefully.  But having done so, I 
dont think NewDay did anything substantially wrong that would make me think  it needed  to 
take any further action in respect of this complaint.  I know Mr B will be disappointed,  so Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, I can understand that it was frustrating for Mr B when NewDays customer  service 
department wasnt  open when he tried to call it on a Sunday  especially as hed received a 
call from the collections department on that day. But NewDays operating  hours for its 
various departments  are for it to decide  and not something we can tell it to change. And 
although Mr B couldnt speak  to NewDay on a Sunday, I can see that he was able to 
successfully speak with NewDay  on several other occasions about the status of his account  
and his concerns.  
Ref: DRN62752273I dont dispute  Mr B was unable to access his account on-line or that he wasnt receiving 
paper statements.  But it seems Mr B opted for e-mail statements when he opened the 
account. And having listened to the telephone  calls between NewDay  and Mr B, Im satisfied 
that NewDay explained that if he wanted  paper statements, its system required him to alter 
his preferences on-line. And that NewDay tried to provide Mr B with the information he 
needed to reinstate access  to the account, so he could do that. 
But I note Mr B has  in response  to our investigators view, said NewDay didnt offer him 
any reasonable adjustments to help him in this respect given his medical condition. The term 
reasonable adjustments means I have to think about what  steps are reasonable (in all the 
circumstances) for me to expect NewDay to take while  bearing  in mind I cant  require it to 
change its systems. And having thought about  this carefully,  I think  NewDay  has taken the 
reasonable steps required by offering to give Mr B the information he needed to re-instate  
access to his account on-line. I say this because  Mr B was able to successfully operate his 
account on-line  before  he accidently locked himself  out. And I havent seen any reason why 
he couldnt have  continued to do so had he chosen  to re-instate on-line  access  using the 
information offered  to him. But I note Mr B has since received paper statements after he 
made a Data Subject  Access Request.
NewDay hasnt disputed  that it didnt close Mr Bs account when he first asked it to. So Ive 
looked to see if Mr B has lost out as a result  of this. But having looked at Mr Bs account 
statements, Im satisfied  these show that a debt was outstanding.  So while the account  could 
have been closed sooner  (for new purchases), it couldnt have been fully closed as a debt 
was still outstanding. And as a debt was owed, NewDay was entitled to continue to apply 
any interest and charges  in line with the terms of the account.  
In this respect, I should explain, that even if an account holder is disputing  the terms of an 
account or the balance owed, Id expect  the account  holder to continue  to make the 
contractual payments due while the matter was being looked into. Had it transpired that the 
account holder  had - for example, overpaid,  or incurred  charges when they shouldnt  have, 
or the business had done something wrong,  I would  then expect this to be put right.  But here 
- as I understand it, after the initial arrears were  cleared no further payments were received 
into the account.      
Mr B has said that it was unreasonable of NewDay to ask him to complete an income and 
expenditure breakdown. And I acknowledge  that Mr B was asking for his account to be 
closed. But Im satisfied  he was also asking NewDay to either refund interest or reduce the 
interest rate on his account. So I dont think it was unreasonable for NewDay  to ask Mr B for 
an income and expenditure breakdown so it could understand his wider  financial 
circumstances to enable  it to consider making changes (particularly reducing) the contractual  
terms of Mr Bs account. But as Mr B didnt provide the information NewDay  required and 
because Mr B indicated  he was able to pay a monthly payment greater than the minimum 
payment required  under  the accounts existing terms, I dont think  it was required to consider 
Mr Bs request further.  
I note that Mr B has said that NewDay cancelled his direct debit payment. And NewDay  
hasnt disputed this. But it says it did so with Mr Bs agreement. And Im satisfied that Mr B 
agreed with NewDay  - in a further  telephone call, that the direct  debit would be cancelled to 
prevent any further  charges from being  applied as a result of payments being returned by his 
bank. I also note that NewDay wrote to Mr B to confirm that the direct  debit  had been  
cancelled.  
Ref: DRN62752274During a telephone conversation with NewDay,  Mr B asked  it to provide a copy  of his credit  
agreement. Its not clear  if this was ever provided. But during that call, Mr B did suggest the 
credit agreement may not valid as it didnt contain  a wet signature. So I should explain  that 
its not for this service to decide  the validity of a credit  agreement (or if a credit  agreement is 
enforceable)  that would  be for a court to decide. But as Mr B took out and used the credit 
card, I find it difficult to see how I could fairly say that NewDay  was not entitled to ask him to 
continue to repay the outstanding balance.
   
And Im satisfied that during the telephone conversations with Mr B, NewDay made Mr B 
aware of the balance  outstanding on his account  and what  was required to bring  it back  into 
order. In light of this, Im satisfied that Mr B was aware that payments were  still due on his 
account. But the statements show that no further payments were received  to the account. As 
a result,  New Day took the decision to default  Mr Bs account  and sell the outstanding  
balance to a third party collection agent  in line with the terms of the account.  As payments 
werent being made to the account, and as Im satisfied a debt was outstanding, I dont think 
NewDay did anything wrong when it did this.  
Mr B has suggested that there was a lack of notifications about  the debt being  sold. But 
NewDay has provided a copy of a default notice issued to Mr B in August  2018. This notice 
explains what would happen  if the account was not settled - this included  selling the debt to 
a third party. So I think NewDay did notify Mr B about the implications of not settling his debt. 
Mr B has also suggested the balance outstanding on the account could be fraudulent.  And 
that it could have been bought for a reduced cost by the third party. But from the statements 
NewDay has provided, Ive not seen anything  to suggest that the balance outstanding when 
the account was closed  was not the genuine balance accrued by Mr B. And if NewDay 
decided to sell the debt for less than was outstanding then I think its entitled to make that 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6275227