K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  about the way Nationwide Building Society  handled a swift payment. 
background 
In August  2018  Miss G asked Nationwide to make a swift payment to send £7,000 to an 
account abroad. Nationwide said the funds should  take around  five days  to credit the 
destination account but they werent received.  
Miss G asked  Nationwide to trace the missing  money. But the funds werent found until 
12 September 2018 when  they were  credited  back into Miss Gs Nationwide  account. When 
Nationwide looked  into what  had happened it found its intermediary bank hadnt processed 
the swift payment  because of some missing  information.  
Miss G complained and Nationwide  apologised,  paid her £150 and refunded the £20 swift 
fee shed paid. Miss G referred her complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked at 
what had happened. They asked Nationwide to increase its offer and it agreed pay an 
additional £100, taking the total award to £270. Miss G didnt  feel the offer was fair so asked 
for her case to be appealed. As a result, its been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that having such a large  amount of money going missing for a number of weeks  
mustve been really difficult for Miss G. Im please  Nationwide was able to trace  the funds 
and that theyve been returned to her. 
Nationwides explained that its intermediary bank  (the bank that wouldve assisted in sending  
the funds to Miss Gs account abroad)  didnt  explain  why the funds hadnt  been paid to the 
right account  after it made contact  to find out what had happened. Instead, the intermediary 
bank sent the funds  back to Nationwide around three  weeks  after the payment was 
attempted. I agree that level of delay isnt acceptable and the service provided was poor.  
Nationwides responsible for the actions of its intermediary bank so I think  its fair that its 
offered Miss G compensation here. 
I now need to decide whether the settlement  Nationwides offered is fair in the circumstances 
of Miss Gs complaint. Nationwide  originally offered Miss G £150  plus a refund of the £20 
swift payment fee. But following the adjudicators  involvement its agreed to pay a further 
£100 taking the total award  to £270. 
Ive taken on board what Miss Gs said about the number  of calls she had to make to 
Nationwide and the timescales involved before the funds  were located. While I appreciate 
how stressful the experience was for Miss G Im satisfied Nationwides  offer of £250 for the 
trouble and upset  caused and £20 to refund  the swift payment fee fairly reflects  the impact  of 
the error  on her. As a result, Im not telling Nationwide to increase its offer beyond what  its 
already agreed  to pay or take any further  action.
Ref: DRN66957422my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Miss G an additional £100  taking the total award  to £270. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6695742