K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that FIL Retirement Services Limited (Fidelity) gave him unsuitable 
advice in November  2016 on whether to transfer his preserved benefits from his former  
employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a pension drawdown  arrangement  
(SIPP) with Fidelity. Mr G considers that the use of the critical yield by Fidelity was 
inappropriate as he did not want to buy an annuity.
Fidelity concluded  that the critical yield was too high to make  the transfer  viable and that the 
advice that Mr G received  was that it was not in his best interests to transfer.
Mr G did not accept the advice that he was given.
Mr G considers that the fee that he has been charged by Fidelity of £2,500 is far too high for 
the work  that has been done  and he wants a substantial reduction.
background
Mr G was an existing customer of Fidelity  and had approached the adviser for advice on 
transferring his OPS  benefits to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). The reason for this 
was so that Mr G could access the larger  tax free cash amount from the SIPP than he could 
do from the OPS.
Fidelity sets out in its Terms of Business what it would do and what  the level of the fees for 
its services would be. The version of the Terms  of Business dated September 2016  was 
emailed to Mr G. 
Pages 3 to 5 of this document set out the charges  that would be payable  to Fidelity.
Page 4 of this document  sets out that a charge of £2,500 would be payable  on one Defined 
Benefit Scheme Transfer Analysis. 
The document goes on to highlight in bold that:
Please note that the Fidelity SIPP will only accept defined benefit transfers where 
FRS (Fidelity Retirement Services) has recommended that the transfer is appropriate  
for your circumstances.
The appropriate advice  fee (including VAT) is still payable  even when  we are unable  
to recommend a transfer because we do not believe it to be appropriate for your 
circumstances.
Fidelity carried  out a transfer  value analysis (TVAS) to calculate the estimated annual 
investment growth  required, in order for the transferred fund to be sufficient, to purchase an 
annuity with equivalent value to those being given  up in the defined  benefit scheme.
The report  confirmed that an annual growth  required, or critical yield, was 9.68% based on 
retirement at age 60. It also confirmed that based on retirement  at age 55 the critical yield 
had not been specifically  calculated but was over 50%.
Ref: DRN69797522As this was considered by Fidelity  to be too high it recommended that the transfer did not go 
ahead. In the circumstances  and in line with terms of the arrangement  with Mr G a fee of 
£2,500 was payable to Fidelity. 
Mr G considered that this fee was excessive and he complained to the business  that the 
advice was inappropriate in his circumstances. He argued that he did not want  to buy an 
annuity and he wanted to maximise the tax free cash sum available. As this complaint was 
rejected by Fidelity  Mr G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators considered this complaint but did not uphold  it. He said it was a 
regulatory requirement for a policyholder to receive advice  from a pension transfer specialist 
where a transfer  from a defined benefit pension scheme was being  considered.  
In his view, the TVAS  showed the critical yield of 9.68% at age 60 and over 50% at age 55. 
The adjudicator considered that these were  too high to make the advice to transfer 
appropriate. The high critical yield meant  that the transfer value offered by the OPS was too 
low to make  the transfer be suitable. Therefore Fidelitys  advice  not to transfer out of the 
defined benefit  scheme was appropriate.
Mr G did not agree and provided extensive  examples  of his own calculations showing how 
investment growth  less than the calculated  critical yield could provide him with the income he 
required which was more  than that provided by the defined benefit scheme.
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his opinion and as agreement was not 
reached the complaint has been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Im in agreement 
with the adjudicator and for largely  the same reasons.
Mr G has provided  detailed  submissions  to support his complaint,  which  I have read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that he will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and that they are expressed  in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions  and reasons for reaching them.
Mr G appointed Fidelity to investigate the proposed transfer. The terms and conditions  of the 
service offered by Fidelity makes it clear that it may, after the analysis, conclude that the 
transfer should not go ahead. In those circumstances a fee of £2,500 will be payable.
It is important  to realise that Fidelity are required to follow the rules that are set out in the 
Regulators handbook when advising on pension transfers. These rules are set out in COBS 
19.1.
The regulators rules require that Fidelity (and all providers)  start from the assumption  that 
the advice to transfer would not be suitable. A transfer should only take place  if it can be 
clearly demonstrated  that the transfer  is in the clients best interest.
Ref: DRN69797523In this case Fidelity arranged for the critical yield to be calculated  and it was determined to 
be 9.68%. In its opinion  this was too high to make the advice to transfer suitable. The critical 
yield was determined using the assumptions that had been set down by the regulator.
 
Fidelity would also have  been aware  that pension providers when illustrating  projected  
benefits payable  from a PPP were required by the regulator to use assumed rates of growth 
of 5%, 7% and 9%. So a required return of 9.68% would  have been  considered  very high. 
This would mean that there would have been  a high chance that Mr G would be worse off on 
retirement after the transfer  than he would have been on retirement  before the transfer.
 
Given this, in my opinion, the advice that Mr G received from Fidelity not to transfer out of 
the OPS was appropriate. 
I accept that based  on Mr Gs own calculations that he might  well be able to obtain  the 
income level he required from a drawdown  arrangement, and that the level of income could 
be greater than his former  employers scheme  might provide him with. However, the basis  
and the methodology for determining the critical yield is set down by the regulator and I 
cannot instruct Fidelity  to look at figures produced on different assumptions and methods.
I also note that Fidelity had clearly  set out in its Terms of Business that it would only accept  
pension transfer  business where this had been  recommended by Fidelity. That means  it was 
not prepared to accept transfer business  where its advice was not to transfer.
In the circumstances Mr G was made aware  that it was not certain that Fidelity would, after 
carrying out all of the required analysis, accept the transfer amount offered. In those 
circumstances a fee of £2,500 would be payable.
I note as part of this complaint Mr G is disputing the level of Fidelitys  fee, which was agreed 
in advance of the advice  being provided.  I consider that this was a legal agreement  entered 
into by both parties and I do not intend to interfere with it or ask Fidelity to alter or reduce it 
because Mr G does not agree  with the advice.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint against  FIL Retirement Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6979752