K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains Atlanta  1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet) mis-sold him a van 
insurance policy.
background
In November 2019 I issued a provisional decision for this complaint. It forms part of this final 
decision so Ive attached a copy.  In it I explained  why I didnt think  Atlanta has mis-sold 
Mr Fs policy. I said I didnt intend  to make it refund his premiums or do anything differently. 
I also asked Mr F and Atlanta if they would like to provide any further  information  before I 
issued a final decision. Atlanta didnt. Mr F made a number of comments. Ive responded to 
those below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr F made a few comments  more relevant to the claim. As this complaint is against the 
broker, not the insurer, I havent responded  to those. 
According to Mr F none of the points he made have been considered.  I dont agree with that. 
This is an informal service. So we dont always respond in writing  to each and every 
complaint point or argument. But we do consider them.  My provisional  decision didnt  directly  
address every point  he made. But Ive considered everything hes provided and said.  
Mr F says nobody  considered the phone call he made before he agreed to the cover. He 
says during that call Atlanta told him he would be covered to drive  other vehicles.  But our 
Investigator discussed that call in his view.  And I did in my provisional decision.  
Mr F says Ive assumed  he lied about  the call. Id like to assure  him that I didnt. In the 
absence of something conclusive Im required to decide what I think  was most likely to have 
happened. I explained why I thought,  based  on the available information,  it was most likely 
he wasnt told he could drive other vehicles.  
According to Mr F a number of insurers have told him that driving  other vehicles cover is 
automatic with comprehensive  insurance.  I explained in my provisional  decision that Atlanta  
says driving other vehicles isnt standard with commercial van insurance like Mr Fs policy. 
He hasnt explained if these insurers were talking  about commercial van insurance or private 
vehicle insurance.  He hasnt provided  anything to support  what he says.  So he hasnt made 
me think driving other  vehicles cover is common and standard with commercial van 
insurance. 
I havent been provided with anything thats  changed my mind. That means  Im not making 
Atlanta refund Mr Fs premiums or do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Atlanta  1 Insurance  Services Limited refund 
Mr Fs premiums or do anything differently.
Ref: DRN68001612Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN68001613PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F complains Atlanta  1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet) mis-sold him a van 
insurance policy.
background
In 2017 Mr F took out a commercial  van insurance policy through Atlanta He used a price 
comparison website. He was then taken to Atlantas own site. In 2018 the policy renewed 
with the same insurer. That was also arranged by Atlanta. 
In 2018 Mr F was involved in a collision with another  vehicle. He made a claim on his policy.  
Mr F had been driving a different  vehicle to the one listed on his policy. He thought he was 
covered to drive  other vehicles. But the insurer said he wasnt. So it refused to cover the 
claim.
Mr F says when  taking out the policy Atlanta told him over the phone  he would be covered to 
drive other vehicles. He says it failed to tell him he no longer had that cover. So he feels 
Atlanta mis-sold his insurance. He wants compensation  including a refund of his policy  
premiums and any extra he had to pay for new cover.
After he complained Atlanta said it hadnt  done  anything wrong. It said it hadnt told, or given 
Mr F the impression, he was covered to drive  other  vehicles. It said it couldnt find any record 
of him calling to ask about other vehicle cover.
One of our Investigators  considered the complaint.  He didnt agree Atlanta had mis-sold the 
policy. Mr F didnt  accept  that. So the complaint  has come to me for a final decision.   
Mr Fs also unhappy about the insurers  decision to refuse the claim. This complaint  is 
against Atlanta  who sold the policy. So it only considers the sale. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to require 
Atlanta pay Mr F any compensation or do anything differently.
When selling  insurance, firms are required to provide their customers  with information  thats  
clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive considered what  Atlanta said to Mr F about driving 
other vehicles. 
Mr F says Atlanta  told him over the phone,  before he took the policy out, that he would be 
covered to drive  other vehicles. Atlanta hasnt been  able to find a record  of Mr F calling it 
from his registered  landline number. He says he might  not have used that number. But he 
hasnt provided  an alternative one for Atlanta to check. Neither has he provided any records  
to show he made a call. 
Atlanta says in its experience cover  for driving  other  vehicles isnt usually provided with 
commercial van insurance policies. It says none  of the insurers it deals with provide  that 
cover. I havent seen  anything that makes  me think what it says isnt correct. Considering 
Ref: DRN68001614that it seems  unlikely Atlanta would have told him over the phone that he would have that 
cover  although I accept  its possible a mistake  was made. But overall,  based  on what Ive 
seen, I think it probably didnt him that during a phone call.  
Mr F says he was covered to drive other vehicles under his previous policy   but Atlanta 
didnt tell him the cover had changed. By previous  policy I think he means  the initial policy  
he took out through Atlanta in 2017. Ive looked at policy documents and insurance 
certificate for it. Mr F wasnt covered to drive other  vehicles. So it seems there wasnt  a 
change in that cover. So I cant say Atlanta failed to tell him, in 2018, about a change to his 
cover. 
Ive considered the sale process Mr F went through for the initial policy  and the renewal. I 
havent seen anything that makes  me think driving other vehicles was mentioned. Ive looked 
at the relevant policy documents. Ive considered everything Mr F and Atlantas said.  Having 
done so, I dont think Atlanta told him or gave him the impression he was covered to drive 
other vehicles.     
I dont agree that Atlanta  mis-sold Mr Fs policy. So I dont intend  to make it refund his 
premiums or do anything differently. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to require Atlanta 1 Insurance  Services  Limited  
refund Mr Fs premiums  or do anything differently. 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6800161