K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank  Limited  didnt cancel a pending  transaction  when he told 
them about  a duplicate payment.
background
Mr C made  a payment  to a supermarket and they tried to take the payment twice,  with one 
payment left pending  on his account.  When he called Starling Bank to query the pending  
transaction they didnt reverse it straight  away as they said they needed more information  
from him.
The pending  transaction automatically reversed a few days later but Mr C was unhappy that 
Starling Bank didnt take action when he first called.
Starling Bank upheld Mr Cs complaint as they agreed they should have cancelled the 
pending transaction sooner. However they didnt  agree that they had caused Mr C 
inconvenience, so didnt offer compensation. Mr C wasnt happy  with this response so 
complained to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said Starling Bank should pay Mr C £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  Starling Bank disagreed with this and asked for 
an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I didnt think Starling  Bank ought to pay 
compensation to Mr C as the inconvenience  hed been caused was limited.  I said this 
because he contacted Sterling Bank once using its online app after his initial  call and the 
transaction was reversed  four days later. I asked  both parties to comment  on my provisional 
decision. Starling  Bank  was happy  with my provisional decision. Mr C wasnt. He said that he 
suffers from anxiety and that the uncertainty  made  his anxiety worse.  He also said that hes 
now scared to use his card in case the same thing  happens again  and that Starling Banks 
poor customer service made  matters  worse.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling Bank accepts that it could have cancelled the pending transaction sooner. The issue  
I have to decide is what compensation, if any, Starling  Bank  should  pay Mr C. That means 
I have to consider  the impact of Starling Bank  not cancelling  the pending transaction  sooner.
Ive considered Mr Cs response to my provisional  decision.  I accept  that Mr C suffers from 
anxiety and that this could  have  meant  the impact on him was greater. Starling Bank said 
that the payment would be reversed within seven days if it was a duplicate. This should have 
reassured Mr C that hed get his money  back. In fact the payment was reversed within  four 
days. Mr C had money in his account, didnt miss any payments and didnt go overdrawn 
during those four days. So I dont  think the delay had a significant impact  on him even taking 
his anxiety into account.
Mr C says the experience  has made him hesitant to use his card in case  something  goes 
wrong again. I understand that the fact the supermarket put the payment through  twice 
would make Mr C aware this is something that can happen and anxious about  it happening 
Ref: DRN67445102again. However, had Starling  Bank not made  a mistake in this case, the transaction  would 
have been reversed much  sooner. So this should  reassure  Mr C that in the unlikely event 
that the same thing  happened again,  it would be sorted out very quickly.
Finally Ive considered  Mr Cs point that he was affected more by the customer service and 
lack of empathy  from Starling Bank  than the time it took to get the money  back. From looking 
at the messages sent by Starling Bank  and listening to the initial  call I dont  agree  that their 
customer service  was poor. I appreciate they made  a mistake  on the first call but theyve  
accepted this and apologised. However the rest of their correspondence  was detailed and 
informative and even  included additional information to reassure  Mr C. I therefore disagree  
that Starling Banks  customer service  would have contributed to the anxiety caused. 
my final decision
For reasons Ive given,  my final decision is that I don't uphold  Mr C's complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744510