K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  didnt pay a fair total loss 
settlement when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.  
background
Ms Ss car was unfortunately stolen in November  2018. She made  a claim to her insurer, 
Admiral. It settled  Ms Ss claim by paying her a total loss settlement for her car of £25,930.
Ms S complained to Admiral as she thought  a fairer valuation was in the region  of £27,500. 
But Admiral  said it had reached its valuation taking into account  the motor  trade  guides  and 
in line with the policy. 
Ms S asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Ms Ss policy with Admiral  says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value 
of the car at the time of loss. It defines  the term market value as:
The cost of replacing  your car, with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss.
We have a long standing approach to valuations complaints. We find the main  motor trade 
guides are a reliable  to way to check if an insurer has paid a fair valuation.  They  provide 
valuations based  on the make and model of a car, taking into account its condition  and 
mileage. The valuations are averages  of likely selling prices for the month of loss. We find 
adverts can be less reliable as they tend to be a starting point to negotiate a price  
downwards. And they can vary widely.
Admiral used the main  motor trade  guides  to reach its valuation figure of £25,930. We 
checked the guides and found they ranged  from £24,250 to £26,260  for a similar car to 
Ms Ss. Where  the insurer has paid a valuation within  the range of the guides, we generally 
think this is reasonable.  
Admirals settlement of £25,930 is higher than the average  of the motor guides we checked. 
And we check the retail  transacted figure.  This is the average price of what  any consumer 
would expect to pay for a similar car at a dealership. 
So taking everything into account, I think Admiral reached  its valuation  for Ms Ss car 
reasonably and in line with the policy. This means I dont think  it needs  to pay any more. 
Ref: DRN66367362my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6636736