K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) has only offered to pay part of a claim for the cost of medical 
treatment abroad under  his travel insurance policy. 
Mr B is also unhappy because Mapfre hasnt paid for the cost of his return flights  to the UK.
background
Mr B held an annual  travel insurance policy, provided by Mapfre.
The policy was taken  out by Mrs B, on Mr Bs behalf, over the phone during the course of
two telephone conversations in July 2017. A total of six pre-existing medical conditions  were
declared, for a premium of £419.56.
Unfortunately, Mr B was taken into hospital  abroad  while on holiday later that year.  Mapfre
was notified about what had happened  and requested details of Mr Bs medical history from
his GP.
After reviewing this information Mapfre said Mr B hadnt told it about  some medical
conditions  and had provided inaccurate information about  some other medical  conditions.
Mapfre said, as a result, Mr B had only paid 64% of the premium  he should have paid so it
would only pay 64% of his claim costs.
Mr B subsequently travelled back to the UK on flights arranged and paid for by himself and
his wife.
Unhappy, Mr B complained to Mapfre and then to this service.  Mapfre  said its calculations
about the additional premium Mr B shouldve paid were correct so it would only pay 64% of
the claim,  meaning  Mr B was responsible for the remaining 36%. Mapfre  acknowledged it
should have been in touch more often and provided more information  while  Mr B was in
hospital abroad, so offered £200  compensation by way of an apology for this.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  Mapfres  offer to pay a
proportionate settlement  was fair in the circumstances. He said he thought Mapfre should
pay the remainder of Mr Bs claim, less the additional premium  he shouldve  paid.
Mapfre didnt agree with our investigators  conclusions. 
I made  my provisional decision about Mr Bs complaint earlier  this month. In it I said;
I think  the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)
applies to Mr Bs complaint. I think the seller of the policy was acting as the insurers  agent
for the purposes  of this legislation  and when Mrs B took out the policy on Mr Bs behalf she
made disclosures and representations  about Mr Bs health.
CIDRA places certain obligations on both the insurer  and on the person buying  the policy.
The insurer  has a duty to ask clear and specific questions. And the person buying  the policy
has a duty to take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation in response to these
questions.
Ref: DRN66314852Ive listened to the two sales calls that took place in July 2017. And, having done so, I think
Mrs B was asked clear and specific questions  about  Mr Bs health.  These  included  questions
about whether  Mr B had taken any prescribed medication or had any medical treatment in
the last two years and whether Mr B had been  a registered in or out-patient at a hospital
clinic or GP surgery in the last two years.
Mrs B answered yes to both of these  questions.  Mrs B then declared a total of six medical
conditions which Mr B had.
I accept Mrs B willingly disclosed these conditions and I dont think there  was any deliberate
intention to mislead on her part. I think there was some confusion during the first call in
particular about  exactly what medical conditions Mr B had but, overall,  it was Mrs Bs
responsibility to take reasonable  care to give Mapfre accurate information about  the
questions she was asked.  Having reviewed what was said during the telephone calls and the
information provided by Mr Bs doctor,  I think there were other conditions which Mrs B
should have told Mapfre about.
Mrs B mentioned anaemia  during the first call but then said she didnt think  Mr B did have
anaemia. However Mr Bs medical  records show he was diagnosed  with anaemia in
September 2016 and was prescribed iron supplements for this. Mr Bs medical records also
show hyponatraemia, high cholesterol and a prescription for leg swelling. So, I think  Mrs B
should have declared to Mapfre  that Mr B had all of these conditions. I also think Mrs B
should have answered yes to the questions about  whether  Mr B had suffered from any
symptoms of a duodenal  ulcer in the last three  months  and whether he had a chest infection
within the last year.
But I dont think Mrs B needed to declare depression as I understand Mr B feels this was
misdiagnosed and he didnt take the tablets  he was prescribed.
CIDRA sets out what an insurers remedies are if there has been  a misrepresentation. I think
this was careless misrepresentation by Mrs B. CIDRA therefore allows Mapfre  to reduce  any
claim payment in proportion to the additional  premium which Mr B would have paid if Mrs B
hadnt misrepresented.
I understand the condition Mr B claimed  for may be unconnected to any of the conditions
which werent declared. But if Mrs B had declared all of Mr Bs medical conditions then
Mapfre wouldve charged a higher  premium in line with the higher risk presented.  So I dont
think it would  be fair or reasonable  in the circumstances to ask Mapfre  to depart from the
remedy set out in CIDRA.
I requested further  clarification from Mapfre about the premium quotations it initially provided
and I said I didnt think Mrs B needed  to declare  that Mr B had depression. Im now satisfied
Mr B paid 79% of the premium he shouldve paid  so I therefore  think  Mapfre should pay
79% of Mr Bs claim.
For the avoidance of doubt, this includes Mr Bs medical costs and the costs of Mr and
Mrs Bs flights home, as well as any additional accommodation costs which Mr B might have
incurred. Mr and Mrs B will need  to provide any reasonable evidence  of these costs which
Mapfre might require,  if this hasnt already been  provided.
Mapfre should also pay Mr B any hospital  benefit  payment which  he may be entitled  to under
the terms and conditions of his policy.
Ref: DRN66314853Mr B has mentioned having had a claim paid in the early part of 2017 but this was in a
different policy  year and that policy may have been  provided by a different insurer,  so I dont
think any previous claim made  is relevant to my decision about what Mapfre should  do in the
circumstances.
Mrs B isnt insured under this policy. This means we dont have the power to ask Mapfre to
pay any compensation to her for any upset which she herself suffered. I can only award
compensation to Mr B for the impact of Mapfres  actions on him.
I dont think a payment  £200 fairly  reflects the level of stress  and inconvenience Mr B
experienced in this situation.
Mr B was in hospital for around 10 days  and I dont think  Mapfre  clearly communicated  what
was happening with the claim. Mapfre actively attempted to provide an update about the
claim only once, when  it left a voicemail  and at least one call-back didnt happen.
It seems  Mr B was certified as being fit to fly with a nurse escort  six days after his admission
to hospital. Mapfre  was still waiting on Mr Bs medical records  at this point before it would
confirm cover, which I think it was reasonably entitled to do and I can see it was chasing
Mr Bs GP for the information it had requested. Mapfre was in a position  to confirm partial
cover eight days after Mr B was admitted to hospital but by this time Mr B was in the process
of arranging his own flights as he didnt feel he needed a nurse escort. While  I dont  think
Mapfre unreasonably delayed confirming cover I do think Mapfre  could have provided
clearer information about likely timescales, how the repatriation  process  works and what  the
next steps with the claim would be.
Having taken all of the circumstances into account,  I think a total payment of £400
compensation would be fair and reasonable for the impact of Mapfres  failings  on Mr B at a
time when  he was ill in hospital and clearly anxious to return home.
So, my provisional decision was that Mapfre should  pay 79% of Mr Bs claim plus any 
hospital benefit payment due, together with interest as well as £400 compensation. 
Mapfre accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr Bs representative said Mr B accepted my 
provisional decision, but added some further  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representative has said Mr B should  have had a nurse escort. Mapfres telephone 
notes record the following  from a telephone conversation between  Mrs B and Mapfre  - they  
do not want nurse they do not need..  However  its possible these notes dont accurately 
reflect the conversation that took place so I accept what Mr Bs representative has said on 
this point. 
Ive taken into account the stress and worry experienced by Mr B at what was already a 
difficult time when making my award of compensation. But, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I cant make any award  of compensation to Mrs B for the impact of how 
Mapfre handled the claim on her. 
Ref: DRN66314854Overall, as both Mapfre and Mr B have  accepted  my provisional decision,  I see no reason to 
change my findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A must  do the 
following;
pay 79% of Mr Bs claim for medical  costs, flights and additional accommodation in
line with the remaining terms  and conditions of his policy;
pay interest on the above  at 8% simple per year from the date these costs were  paid
until the date settlement  is made;
pay Mr B any hospital benefit  payment which he may be entitled to under the terms
and conditions of his policy;
pay interest on any hospital benefit payment at 8% simple per year from the date of
the claim until the date settlement is made1;
pay Mr B £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Leah Nagle
ombudsman 
1 If Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6631485