K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited have declined a 
claim she made under her pet insurance  policy. She also said they keyed  incorrect 
information about the claim.
background
Ms G had a policy for her cat S, and in June 2017, a premium  was returned by her bank. 
This meant that she had missed a premium. Red Sands wrote to her to let her know this and 
told her she needed  to make the payment. Ms G didnt do this. Red Sands spoke to Ms G at 
a later date and explained she would  need to make  the payment or she could cancel that 
policy and take out another one  with less cover. Ms G said she couldnt afford to make that 
premium so she took out a new basic policy on 4 July 2017.
Ms G took S to the vet when he started  showing signs of diarrhoea  and vomiting. S was 
diagnosed with an infection  called  giardia.
Ms G made a claim on her policy for the costs involved  in S treatment for giardia. Red 
Sands declined to pay the claim.  They said that these symptoms were  present before the 
policy was taken out so they were classed as pre-existing - they declined the claim.
Ms G was unhappy with Red Sands decision so she brought the complaint to us. It was 
looked at by one of our investigators who didnt  think that the complaint should  be upheld. 
She said that she thought that the symptoms were present before the policy had started  so 
she didnt think that Red Sands  were unfair  in declining the claim. 
Ms G disagreed with the investigator. She said that the vet reported incorrect information 
about the claim and wanted the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.  So the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about everything 
that Ms G has said. I appreciate she feels very strongly about this complaint. But while Im 
sorry to disappoint  her, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The insurance policy that Ms G bought from Red Sands has a section for significant 
exclusions or limitations. Under  this section it says:
Significant exclusions or limitations
Any treatment exceeding your condition limit
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, 
injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement 
date of the policy or within  14 days of the commencement date.
With this in mind, I need to decide whether Red Sands acted reasonably in declining to pay 
the claim.
Ref: DRN60306222Ive reviewed the vet notes and I can see that on 19 July 2018, the note says diarrhoea  on 
and off for 1 month, normally eats cat biscuits/meat, had chicken/rice for 2 months  seems  to 
steady stomach, drinking a lot more than normal. Vomited this morning has done this on and 
off, spot of blood in it this morning and sometimes  blood in diarrhoea.  Reports sometimes  
seems painful around the back end and has lost weight  recently.
The notes on the 21 July say that S was diagnosed  with an infection  called  giardia.
The vet notes suggest that S was suffering from these symptoms  for at least one month  
before he was brought in to see the vet. And this would mean  that these symptoms were  
there before the policy was taken out on 4 July 2017. So I can understand why Red Sands  
declined the claim.
The notes are clear in that S seemed to have  symptoms before the start of the policy which  
could be attributed  to giardia. Based on that, its more likely than not that there was 
something wrong with S before the start of the policy, which continued  to get worse  and led 
to Ms Gs claim.
In order to be sure, I wanted to look at some  historical vet notes which Ms G has managed 
to obtain for us from her vet. The notes are from 2015 and say has had diarrhoea on and off 
for a long time,  probably since  being  a kitten,  now getting worse and losing weight, bit 
lethargic at home. Although these notes are from 2015, I think they do suggest that S was 
showing similar symptoms from a while ago so because of this; I cant  say that Red Sands 
have been unreasonable  in declining the claim.
Ms G says that the vet reported  incorrect  information about the claim. I can see that she 
mentioned this to Red Sands and they said they would accept further  information  from the 
vets in order to re-assess.  But nothing was ever provided to them, so theyve declined  the 
claim based on the information they have  which  I dont think is unfair.  I therefore,  havent 
seen anything to suggest that the vet notes are incorrect. While  Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, 
I think Red Sands has acted reasonably in declining the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030622