K822xcomplaint
Mr Vs complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his home insurance  
claim after an escape of water.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.  
background 
Mr Vs property  suffered  an escape  of water  on 29 March  2017. He claimed to AXA who 
appointed a loss adjuster to look into things. The loss adjuster visited Mr Vs property  in early 
April and said he could remain in the property while the drying  and repairs were carried  out. 
Mr V didnt think his property was habitable  and a week  later provided AXA with a letter from 
his doctor  to say hed become ill since the escape  of water.  AXA said it would arrange 
alternative accommodation.
Mr V stayed in a hotel  for seven nights before agreeing to stay in a second  hotel for the next 
six weeks. However, on checking into this hotel he said it wasnt  up to standard and was 
pretty disgusting. He said the bigger room he was offered only had a fold up camp bed. He 
said he checked into a third hotel on 23 April, although only for one night due to the cost. 
On 24 April Mr Vs told us he found  a hotel  for himself to stay in which AXA agreed  to pay 
for. However, he said there were problems with payment and checking in. 
Mr Vs stay in the fourth hotel had to be extended  as his property wasnt repaired. He said at 
this point the hotel asked  for payment and he had to chase AXA for that. He said throughout 
the repairs he also had to make a number of chasers to AXA for payment. 
Shortly after this Mr V said AXA stopped his laundry payments   which  he again had to 
chase AXA for. He also said he was given incorrect information about his disturbance 
allowance (referred to as a food allowance) which should have been £20 and not £10 as 
AXA had initially offered. 
On 15 July AXA sent a contractor to show Mr V carpet samples for his property. Mr V said 
he had to go and look at these in the contractors van and none  were suitable. He said he 
ultimately had to choose new carpet  quickly after AXA put pressure on him to choose quickly 
at the beginning of August. 
Mr V said AXA told him hed need  to move home on 18 August. But this didnt take account 
of the carpet taking  two weeks to be fitted following an order, or that the bed couldnt go into 
the room before the new carpet was laid. 
Mr V said there were  a number of occasions  where check-out dates were incorrectly  given 
and he had to chase AXA for payment. He also said it also incorrectly  told him parts of the 
property werent going  to be repaired  when  they should have been. 
Once the repairs were  completed AXA arranged for the property to be deep cleaned.  Mr V 
moved back into his property on 4 October. However, he didnt think  anything  had been 
cleaned. So AXA arranged a clean  with a difference company.  
Mr V complained to AXA. AXA said it had agreed  to move him to alternative accommodation 
as soon as he provided a letter from his doctor.  It said drying work had completed on          
Ref: DRN6974899227 June and it had reviewed the repairs that were then needed and agreed to carry  out the 
ones that initially  werent included.  AXA thought his property was habitable once it was dry 
but again agreed to alternative accommodation  when  he provided a further  letter from his 
doctor. AXA apologised for Mr V having  to chase  information and for some of the service  
provided.
Mr V remained unhappy  with AXAs response and brought his complaint  to us. In summary, 
he was unhappy  that:
AXA initially said he should  stay in the property despite the water damage;
Repairs that should have taken two months  had taken six;
AXA had caused  him anxiety and sleepless nights;
Hed spent a lot of time chasing AXA for payments and other  things and had to take 
time off work to do so;
Hed been given  the wrong information  about  food allowance and had to chase 
laundry payments
Hed been asked  to pay for items  and claim the costs back from AXA.
AXA said food allowance is offered as a gesture  of goodwill as its not provided under the 
policy. However, it accepted it should have been  agreed at the outset.  It said its offer 
depends on circumstances and increased  the amount it gave Mr V to £20. 
It said it tried to accommodate  Mr Vs requests for hotels  and also offered him an apartment 
which he declined. It said it doesnt have a link with the hotel Mr V chose and was unable to 
provide a credit card for authorisation.  It said it arranged for the hotel to send weekly 
invoices instead.  AXA said it needed to chase Mr V to make  decisions on the flooring so it 
could complete the repairs. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted reasonably in moving Mr V to alternative 
accommodation after he provided a letter from his doctor. However, he thought AXA had 
caused some delays in carrying  out the repairs and also caused Mr V unnecessary  distress  
and inconvenience.  He thought AXA had given Mr V conflicting  information about his food 
allowance and hed had to chase for payments for a number of items.  He thought AXA 
should pay Mr V £350 to compensate him for this. 
AXA accepted our investigators  recommendation but Mr V didnt. He didnt  think it fairly 
recognised the distress  and inconvenience hed suffered and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs made a number  of detailed points and I hope  he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that 
Im going  to focus on what I see as the central  issues of this complaint. Im also not going to 
comment on every occasion Mr V had to make contact with AXA. However, Id like to 
reassure him I have taken  all the information hes provided about that into account  when  
reaching my decision. 
The policy covers Mr V for damage  to his property.  It also has a term that says AXA will pay 
the costs of reasonable alternative  accommodation  if his property is unfit to live in. 
Ref: DRN69748993I can see AXA initially thought Mr V could remain in his property. However,  the letter from 
the doctor said Mr V had symptoms of an URTI which have started since  flooding  in his 
apartment  and concluded it is deemed that his apartment is not currently  habitable due to 
the dampness in the apartment  following the flood. So, it seems  that the property wasnt  fit 
for him to live in. And Im pleased to see AXA arranged alternative accommodation straight 
away once it received information from the doctor. 
AXA also suggested  that Mr V move  back into his home once the drying was completed. I 
can understand why it made this suggestion,  but again Im pleased to see it extended the 
arrangements for alternative accommodation when  Mr V provided  another letter from his 
doctor. 
Once it had agreed  to alternative accommodation, I think AXA did its best to find somewhere 
suitable for Mr V. I can see from the information  provided by both AXA and Mr V that he 
turned down a number  of options and AXA worked with him to come to an agreement  on 
where hed stay. 
Its clear from the information  Mr Vs given us that AXA didnt handle all aspects of his claim 
as well as it should  have done.  I can see from AXAs email that it expected Mr V to be able 
to move back into his property at the end of May, yet he wasnt  able to return to his home 
until the beginning of October. 
I dont hold AXA responsible for all that time - such as the time it took Mr V to choose new 
flooring his home. And I can also see that the drying  wasnt  complete until 27 June which 
meant the repairs wouldnt be finished before then.  However, the repairs  seem to have taken 
longer than they should have done. AXA did pay for accommodation during this time, as well 
as food and laundry costs, so I dont think theres a financial  loss here. But I accept it would 
have caused Mr V distress and inconvenience  at being out of his home.  
During this time I can see Mr V had to chase  payments for a number of items, including  hotel 
invoices. I understand  AXA had very little time to process the invoices before the hotel  
charged Mr Vs card. But these werent  the only payments he had to chase. And he also had 
to contact AXA more  than he should have  done to progress his claim. He was also given 
conflicting advice  about his food allowance. And while  thats not something thats provided 
under his policy, AXA said this should  have been agreed at the beginning. I think this all 
would have been frustrating for him as he wasnt given  clear information. 
Ive also seen the pictures Mr Vs provided  from when he finally  moved home. And it doesnt  
appear that the cleaning contractor had cleaned the property to an acceptable standard.  I 
say this as there was clearly dirt and dust on Mr Vs belongings. AXA arranged  a second 
clean, but I think  it not being done  properly the first time would have been upsetting for him 
as hed just moved  back in to a home that wasnt clean. 
Any claim of this nature will cause some level of distress  and inconvenience.  However,  Im 
satisfied all this caused Mr V more distress  and inconvenience than it should  have  done.  
Hes explained that he had to take time off work  and also had the anxiety at the thought of 
having to pay out money  himself and claim it back from AXA. Again, Im pleased to see this 
was resolved when  Mr V said he wasnt able to pay for everything himself.
To put things right, I think AXA should  compensate  Mr V for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. Having  considered  everything thats happened  Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN69748994£350 is a fair and reasonable  amount  for this. Im mindful thats hes also received £20 a day 
as a food or disturbance allowance which takes account of some of the inconvenience hes 
experienced. I appreciate Mr V thinks he should  receive more  than this but Im satisfied  this 
amount fairly reflects the unnecessary distress and inconvenience AXA caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay   
Mr V £350.
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Vs accepted my decision. If it pays  later 
than this it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my decision 
to the date it makes  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should also give Mr V a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6974899