K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited turned down his pet 
insurance claim.
My references to Red Sands include its agents.  
background
In January 2015 Mr B took out a time limited pet insurance policy  with Red Sands to cover 
his dog. The policy provided cover for 365 days from the first sign or symptom of an illness, 
subject to the policy limit and excess. Red Sands placed an exclusion from the outset for all 
claims with  respect  to Anything  to do with Right Fore Paw and Resulting Conditions with 
effect from the 20th January 2015.
In June 2018 Mr B made a claim for the vets fees hed incurred to investigate his dogs 
adverse food reaction.  Red Sands  turned down  the claim. It said his dogs condition was 
pre-existing under the policys  terms. Also,  it said Mr B should have told it about ear and 
skin issues his dog had experienced when he took out the policy  in 2015. So it put 
exclusions on the policy for all claims with respect to skin conditions, the dogs ears and 
allergies of any cause.  Red Sands then backdated these exclusions to the policys  January  
2015 start date. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair, and he appealed Red Sands decision.  His vet sent a detailed 
letter supporting Mr Bs claim. Red Sands  looked at the claim again. It referred to an entry  in 
the vets records  from 2016 which it said meant the first sign or symptom of the dogs 
condition was May 2016. As the claim wasnt made  until June 2018 this meant more than 
365 days had elapsed.  Red Sands  said Mr B had accepted its presumptions  during the 
telephone conversation when setting up the policy and that no pre-existing conditions  would 
be covered. Also, it pointed out that Mr B had had an earlier policy  with it. Red Sands said it 
had put an exclusion  on an earlier  policy  for claims relating to the ears.  It said ear and skin 
conditions are often the first signs of an allergy.  Mr B cancelled the policy and he came to 
us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said Red Sands should pay the claim, with 8% 
interest. He said Red Sands hadnt  been  entitled to apply retrospective exclusions  to the 
policy unless it could  show it had asked Mr B clear  questions when he took out the policy. It 
hadnt shown  this, so it couldnt rely on the exclusions. Our investigator also said that Mr Bs 
vet had said the food allergy wasnt a pre-existing condition and had been  diagnosed  and 
treated for the first time in 2018. 
Red Sands  sent our investigator some  more comments. It also sent us the comments of 
another vet it had consulted, who said ear and skin issues are often the first sign of allergies. 
Our investigator thought about  those  comments and the vets opinion and explained why 
they didnt change his mind. Red Sands still didnt  agree so the complaints come  to me for 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69259002I think the fair outcome to this complaint  is for Red Sands to pay Mr Bs claim for the adverse 
food reaction. Ill explain why. 
Red Sands  has applied a number of retrospective  exclusions  to Mr Bs policy. By this I mean  
that it has added exclusions  for claims relating to a number  of conditions, including  for 
allergies, and backdated them to the policys inception date in January 2015.  As Mr Bs claim 
is for an adverse  food reaction   in other words an allergic reaction  Red Sands wont  pay it 
because of this backdated exclusion and because it says it is a pre-existing condition.  
Red Sands  has also said that Mr Bs claim wont be paid because his dog first showed signs  
and symptoms of the claimed for condition more than 365 days  before he made his claim. 
As our investigator has explained Red Sands can fairly apply an exclusion to a policy  and 
backdate the exclusion  to the policys inception date only if it can show that it asked  Mr B 
clear questions when  he took out the policy and he failed to answer  those questions  with 
reasonable care. 
Red Sands  says that it told Mr B about  a list of presumptions when he took out the policy  in 
2015. But this isnt enough  for Red Sands to show that it asked Mr B clear  questions and he 
failed to answer those  questions  with care. 
Red Sands  has since  said that it would have  asked Mr B about  pre-existing conditions when 
he took out the policy. But it hasnt  provided us with a recording of the call, the questions  he 
was asked and the answers  he gave. Instead Red Sands has referred us to an internal note 
which refers to an exclusion for claims relating to the right fore paw (and this exclusion has 
been on the policy since inception). The notes  also mention a 2012 grass  seed in the ear 
and licking  his paw, which caused an infection in August  2014.  The internal note said that it 
should note the ear, and anything to do with the paw infection and related conditions.
Im not convinced that Mr B gave Red Sands information about  the ear and paw in response  
to questions it had asked him. I say this because Mr B had previously  insured his dog with 
Red Sands, and the policy  had lapsed. Hed made claims for the grass seed in the ear in 
2012 and for the paw in 2014. So when  he took out the 2015  policy  Red Sands knew  about  
the dogs medical  history.  It could have  placed the ear, skin and allergy exclusions from the 
outset. If it had then Mr B could have  made  an informed decision about  whether to take out 
the policy with Red Sands or not. Its not fair for Red Sands to apply these exclusions only 
when Mr B made a claim three years later in 2018   and after hed arranged  for the dogs 
treatment and allergy testing. 
Red Sands  says that the first sign or symptom of the dogs adverse skin reaction started 
more than 365 days before  the claim was made. Red Sands refers to the clinical notes and 
in particular a diagnosis of an allergy  to dust mites and storage mites, with common 
symptoms including  bald spots from scratching, excessive licking,  moist or crusty skin and 
scratching all over the body. Ive read and considered the comments made by the vet it 
consulted. The vet said in the vast majority of cases where a dog has recurring ear cases  
the dog will generally  have skin issues too  and these can often be due to allergic reactions. 
But Mr Bs vet, who saw and treated the dog, has written a detailed  letter  explaining why this 
isnt the case  for Mr Bs dog. The vet explains that for the June 2018 claim they had 
investigated a hot spot on the dogs neck.  The vet had queried  whether it might be ear 
related. But when the hot spot sample  was analysed  it became clear  only then that the dog 
had a food allergy.  The vet is clear  that Mr B couldnt have known about that until the June 
Ref: DRN692590032018 claim. The vet said the dog had no history  of recurrent ear infections or hot spots by his 
ears, and the vet hadnt made any earlier recommendations  of allergy testing,  dietary trails 
or anti-pruritic medication. 
So its clear to me that Mr B couldnt have started the investigation  into the dogs  hot spot 
any earlier than he did. Its not fair for Red Sands to start the 365 day clock running  from 
the date of earlier incidents noted in the dogs clinical history.  
The fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint  is for Red Sands to pay Mr Bs claim, 
with interest at 8% as set out below. Ive not ordered  any removal  of the retrospective 
exclusions because Mr B has cancelled  the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  
we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision I require  Red Sands Insurance  Company (Europe) 
Limited to pay his June  2018 claim,  subject  to the policy limit and any applicable excess and 
co-payment. If Mr B has paid the vets bill himself then Red Sands  must add simple interest* 
to the claim payment at the rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr B a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6925900