K820x#14complaint
complaint
Mrs T says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T bought the policy in at the same  time as taking  out a mortgage. She applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs T for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £372.93  a month towards  Mrs Ts mortgage 
balance and her related  costs in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £22.59 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mrs T was employed as a secretary.  She has told us she was entitled to at least 
three months full sick pay. Its likely Mrs T would have been entitled to a small amount of 
statutory redundancy pay but she had no other  means to repay her mortgage if she wasnt  
working. Mrs T had an operation in the year before the sale but otherwise she seems  to 
have been in good health at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in May 2001 and 
ended in October 2003. 
Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ts representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs T and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN63310472The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs T received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN63310473The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ts 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN63310474-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs T sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs T know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Its been nearly 20 years  since the 
sale so its not surprising that neither party has retained all the documents  from the sale.  
BoS says it would have made it clear that the policy was optional.  From what  this service  
knows of BoSs practices  at the time its likely that it was made  clear  Mrs T didnt have to 
take the PPI. BoS has been  able to provide a copy of Mrs Ts mortgage  application  form and 
theres no suggestion in there that Mrs T would have to take PPI. And Mrs T was provided 
with a separate quotation for the insurance and had to complete a separate  application form. 
Mrs T hasnt  suggested she was told the PPI was compulsory. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs T knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS provided advice  to Mrs T during this sale. This means BoS had to advise Mrs T with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that BoS took some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mrs T. The adviser had information about some  of Mrs Ts financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  an application form was 
completed which established Mrs Ts eligibility  for the policy  and whether she had any 
existing medical conditions I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say 
this because it didnt  look at Mrs Ts existing means.  And it didnt explicitly point out to Mrs T 
that some  conditions wouldnt be covered. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs T given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN63310475While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs T, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs T had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ts ability to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs T was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  she 
would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs T.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs T. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Ts employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult 
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs T has told us about 
an operation she had the year before the sale, but there  is nothing  to suggest that 
she was still experiencing problems at the time of sale. Mrs T declared  the operation 
in her application form, so I think its likely either BoS agreed that the condition which 
resulted in the operation would  be covered,  or that BoS informed Mrs T that it 
wouldnt be covered  and she chose to take the policy  anyway.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given the fact the 
policy protected the mortgage repayments relating  to her home and the potential  
consequences should Mrs T have been unable to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs T sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs T was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs T was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs T Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs T all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ref: DRN63310476Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs T? To what extent did Mrs T suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs T. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs T, I have found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs T suffered loss or damage in 
this case primarily  depends on whether, if BoS had explained things properly,  Mrs T would 
have acted differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs T says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN63310477The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs T had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ts circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs T was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and that Mrs T knew about 
or ought to have  known about before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs T be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs T was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Ive already explained why I think its likely 
Mrs T would have still taken the policy even though its possible a condition  shed 
experienced may not have been covered. And I think  its likely Mrs T was concerned about 
other medical problems  which may have caused her to take a long time off work.  And Mrs T 
was in permanent  employment. So, I still think she had some good reasons  to take the policy 
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs T might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs T 
Ref: DRN63310478from taking out the policy,  Mrs T, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs T had known  she could only claim for disability if she had been unable to do both her 
job and any similar gainful job which in the insurers view she might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs T had been  unable (through disability) to carry on 
her own occupation  the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
While the policy only provided benefit  for a 24 month period, this was clearly set out in the 
quotation, so I think  BoS did enough  to make it clear  to Mrs T that it wouldnt pay benefit for 
the remaining  term of her mortgage.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs T had been made redundant, or had been 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs T would have taken  out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations  
on cover.
Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs T would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs T 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN63310479represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs T compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs T thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs T and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6331047