K820x#14Complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a level term assurance policy taken out in June 2015.  The policy 
was sold to her by Protect Line Ltd, who at the time of sale, was acting as an appointed 
representative of Sesame Limited (Sesame). Shes  unhappy that the sum assured is 
substantially lower than the amount she agreed to at the time of sale.
Background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was intending to
uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  I asked everyone to send me any further comments  and
information before I reached a final decision.
Sesame Limited (Sesame)  responded  to my provisional decision. In summary, it says it 
doesnt agree with the outcome and the redress awarded, as it doesnt  think  Mrs H would 
have taken out the policy, had she known the true cost of the cover shed applied for. 
It also says that the terms of cover were available for Mrs H to view on the insurers  
customer portal and that it was Mrs Hs responsibility to check  the terms offered were 
correct.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Sesame said, I still think this complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain 
why.
Sesame doesnt  think Mrs H should  be entitled  to any additional compensation, because its 
not persuaded she would have agreed to take out the policy  at the higher  cost. In support of 
this, its referred me to a telephone call, during which Mrs H told Sesames representative 
that her budget  was around  £10 a month for the policy.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I had considered whether Mrs H would have 
taken out the policy  had she known  the actual cost of the cover  shed  asked for. I explained  
that because Mrs H took out additional cover at a significantly higher cost following her 
discovery of the actual  sum assured, I was satisfied  that she still would have agreed to the 
cover, despite its increased cost.
Having reconsidered  the available information, I still think this is the case.  I accept that the 
cost of the premium  may have exceeded  Mrs Hs stated budget of £10, but I cannot ignore 
Mrs H agreed  to pay more than £10 a month  for the policy  she was sold and is currently 
paying £50 a month for the cover she wanted. So, I think  this shows  she would have  paid 
more for the policy had she needed to.
Ref: DRN63331912I think its possible that the true cost of the policy may have prompted Mrs H to carry out her 
own checks with other  providers to ensure that the premium was in line with that of similar 
policies available  on the market. But I think its likely that Mrs H would  have concluded that 
the premium was a reasonable reflection of the cost of this type of cover. So, I think  she 
would have agreed to the policy at a monthly cost of £31.33,  knowing the cost would  reduce  
to £20 after 24 months.
In addition to its concerns  about whether Mrs H would have taken the policy  out, Sesame 
also believes  it was Mrs Hs responsibility to check the terms of cover following the sale. In 
its response to my provisional  decision, Sesame has explained that Mrs H had registered  to 
use the insurers customer  portal, which meant she could  have checked the terms of cover.
As stated in my provisional decision, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs H accessed  
the insurers customer portal and checked  the details of the policy shed purchased.  I also 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Mrs H to have relied on the information  she was given by 
Sesames representative  during the telephone calls where the cost of the policy  and level of 
benefit was discussed. So, I dont agree with what Sesame has said about Mrs H being 
responsible for the situation she now finds herself in.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint 
about Sesame  Limited.
To put things right, Sesame Limited should:
pay Mrs H £1,000  to compensate  her for the additional cost shes likely to incur  as a 
result of the increased cost of her whole-of-life  policies; and
pay Mrs H £100 in recognition of her trouble and upset; and
in the event that a claim is affected  by the exclusion  periods  applicable  to Mrs Hs 
whole-of-life policies, Sesame Limited  should pay compensation  to Mrs Hs estate to the 
value of its direct losses.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN63331913copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a level term assurance policy  taken  out in June 2015. Shes  unhappy that 
the sum assured is substantially lower  than the amount  she agreed to at the time of sale.
Background
In June 2015,  Mrs H was sold a level term assurance policy by Protect  Line Ltd, who at the time of 
sale, was acting as an appointed representative of Sesame Limited (Sesame). The policy  provided a 
benefit in the event of death, for an initial  monthly cost of £15.66 and had a term of 25 years.  
In early 2019, Mrs H says she discovered  the sum assured  was less than half of the amount she 
originally agreed to. She says Sesames representative never told her the sum assured shed been 
offered by the insurer wasnt the £19,209 shed  applied for, but only £9,600.  
Sesame says Mrs H would  have known what the sum assured was. It says the terms of cover would 
have been available for Mrs H to check on the insurers customer portal. It also says it would have 
made it clear from the outset that any figures quoted,  would be subject to an underwriting review by 
the insurer.
Sesame did, however, accept that Mrs H was provided incorrect information  about  the sum assured 
during a telephone call which took place in June 2015.  It says its representative incorrectly stated that 
the sum assured was £19,209, instead of £9,600. In recognition of this, Sesame offered Mrs H some 
compensation for her trouble  and upset.
Unhappy with Sesames response, Mrs H brought her complaint  to our service. Our adjudicator 
looked into Mrs Hs complaint and recommended that it be upheld. As Sesame didnt agree with our 
adjudicators findings, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Sesame says its representative would have made it clear to Mrs H from the outset, that the terms of 
the cover were subject to medical  underwriting  by the insurer and were  therefore  subject to change. 
Its also gone  on to explain  that the policy schedule would  have been available for Mrs H to view on 
the insurers customer portal, so it thinks  it Mrs H ought to have been aware of the total sum assured.  
In support of what its said, Sesame has provided us with some information, including copies of the 
documentation it says would have been sent to Mrs H, along with a copy  of the policy schedule it says 
would have been available to Mrs H to view on the insurers customer portal. Its also provided  us with 
recordings of the telephone calls between its representative  and Mrs H. 
Having listened  to the telephone calls,  Im satisfied that Mrs H requested a policy  that provided  her 
with life cover in the region  of £20,000. Im also satisfied that during two separate  calls,  including the 
call during which Mrs H accepted  the cover,  Mrs H was told by the Sesame representative that the 
insurer had agreed to offer her cover for the full amount  shed applied for, for the premium shed been 
quoted.
Both telephone calls appear  to have taken place following the insurers review of Mrs Hs medical  
records, which is supported  by what Sesames  representative  told Mrs H during the calls.  Im 
Ref: DRN63331914therefore unable  to accept  that Mrs H ought to have known  that the level of cover was less than what  
she applied for, when she was clearly told that it hadnt.  
Ive also thought  about  what Sesame has said about the fact the policy  schedule was available  for 
Mrs H to view on the insurers customer portal. While I accept this information may have been 
available for Mrs H to see following the sale, I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mrs H went  on to 
check the details of the policy shed purchased. Understandably, Mrs H relied on what  she was told 
during the telephone  call and therefore  didnt feel the need to check that what shed been told was 
correct. So, Im not persuaded  this shows Mrs H ought to have known that the sum assured  was less 
than the amount shed applied for. 
In her submissions to our service, Mrs H has told us she was shocked to discover that she didnt have  
the level of cover  she thought she had in place. Shes provided us with evidence to show that in early  
2019, she took out two separate whole-of-life policies to supplement the shortfall in the level of cover 
she wanted  in place. She says both of these  policies have exclusion periods for any claim  in either  the 
first or second year of cover. I can see that Mrs H is currently paying around £50 a month for three 
policies which together have a combined  sum assured of just over £20,000.  
Weve asked  Sesame to obtain a retrospective quote from the insurer,  to show how much  Mrs Hs 
policy would have cost,  had she been  offered  a policy with the full sum assured  she wanted  around 
£20,000. This quote shows that the policy would have cost £31.33 for the first two years of cover, and 
£20 each month  thereafter. 
I think  its likely that, had Sesame  given Mrs H the right information about the sum assured the insurer 
was prepared to offer during  the call in 2015, she would  have gone ahead with a policy with the sum 
assured she wanted, despite  the increased  monthly cost. This is based on the fact that Mrs H took out 
additional cover at a much  higher cost following  her discovery of the actual sum assured. 
Given Mrs H is currently paying more than she would have been if shed taken one policy with the 
sum assured  she wanted,  and is currently subject to the exclusion periods associated with her two 
whole-of-life policies, I do think she has lost out because of what  Sesames representative  did wrong.
Sesame has accepted that Mrs H was given incorrect information during the call in which she took out 
the policy.  To put things right, its offered to pay Mrs H £100  in recognition of the error its 
representative had made. So, Ive thought about whether  this offer is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I dont think it goes far enough.
It would be difficult to put Mrs H in the position  she would have been had she been sold the cover she 
wanted. This is partly due to the fact that Im unable  to tell the insurer to provide a policy with the sum 
assured Mrs H wants, at the price set out in the retrospective quote.  And Mrs H has told us that 
Sesames representative  isnt able to offer her alternative cover due to her health.  Im also mindful  
that Mrs H has paid less for the life cover than she would have done had taken  out one policy  with the 
greater sum assured in 2015.  
While Im unable to put Mrs H back into the position she would have been in had she been given  the 
correct information about the sum assured the insurer was prepared  to offer. I do think  that Sesame 
should pay Mrs H some  compensation in an attempt  to put things right.  
As a contribution towards the additional cost Mrs H will incur in respect of the two whole-of-life 
policies, which is around £30 a month, I recommend Sesame pay Mrs H, £1,000.  While I appreciate 
this compensation may not take into account all of the additional costs which  Mrs H may incur moving 
forward, I dont think it would be fair to expect Sesame to cover the excess  costs for the foreseeable 
future. I say this because Im unable to determine long these policies will remain in force. Mrs Hs 
policies can be cancelled at any stage and circumstances  could also change  which may mean  the 
cover is no longer needed.  
Ref: DRN63331915In respect of the trouble and upset Mrs H has experienced as a result of whats happened, Sesame 
has already  offered compensation in the amount  of £100.  Taking everything into account,  I think this 
this amount is fair in circumstances  of this complaint.
In addition to what Ive said above, Im mindful  Mrs H is currently affected by the exclusion  periods 
applicable to her whole-of-life policies. This means the policies are unlikely to pay out all or some of 
their respective benefits, in the event of a claim being made in the next two years.  As this isnt 
something Mrs H would  have been  affected by had Sesames representative  done everything it was 
supposed to do, I think it would be fair for Sesame to compensate Mrs Hs estate for any potential 
losses resulting from the exclusion periods on her whole-of-life policies.  
My provisional decision
I currently intend on upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
To put things right, Sesame Limited should:
pay Mrs H £1,000  to compensate her for the additional cost shes likely  to incur as a result of the 
increased cost of her whole-of-life policies;  and
pay Mrs H £100 in recognition of her trouble and upset; and
in the event that a claim is affected  by the exclusion periods applicable to Mrs Hs whole-of-life  
policies, Sesame Limited should pay compensation to Mrs Hs estate to the value of its direct 
losses.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6333191