K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the amount received from Assurant General Insurance  Limited when 
settling a claim he made on his gadget insurance policy (the policy).
background
Mr Ms laptop went missing in May 2019.  He made a claim on the policy, which  Assurant 
accepted. It offered Mr M a cash settlement of £639.67, after hed paid the policy excess of 
£75. It said this was what  it would cost to buy a like for like replacement of the same make  
and model. 
Mr M doesnt think thats fair. Our investigator  didnt think Assurant had done anything 
wrong, so didnt uphold his complaint. Mr M disagreed so his complaint has been passed  to 
me to look at everything afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ms policy says if a device is lost or stolen Assurant will replace it with a device  of the 
same make and model. If it cant do that, the policyholder will be given a choice of models 
with equivalent  specification. But the policy goes on to say:
Replacements
Where we replace  the device the replacement may be a  
remanufactured (not brand new) device
In the event that we are unable to provide  a replacement, we 
will contact you to discuss an alternative claim settlement.
Assurant didnt have  any available  like for like replacements. So it offered Mr M a cash 
settlement which  it was entitled to do under the policy.  
A cash settlement  is in lieu of a replacement laptop and so would be the equivalent cash  
amount to provide what would otherwise be provided under the policy; a laptop  of the same 
make and model - but not necessarily a new one.
 
Assurant has sent us screenshots from reputable online retailers  showing refurbished  
laptops of the same  make and model  as Mr Ms laptop which  are in stock. The prices range 
from £475 to £670,  with some priced  at £599. 
So Im satisfied Assurant  has provided sufficient evidence that its offered an amount  that 
would allow Mr M to buy a laptop  of the same make  and model, which  is what  its obliged to 
do under  the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Mr M says the laptops  suggested to him by Assurant are 
refurbished and arent being  sold through an official site or store  belonging to  or approved 
by - the manufacturer  of the laptop.  He also says the laptop he lost was in perfect  working 
condition and hes concerned that a second hand laptop might  not be. However, I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that any of the laptops put forward  by Assurant wouldnt be 
Ref: DRN63556802suitable replacements. And I note that some are described as being  in very good condition  
and come with a 12 months warranty. 
So, all in all, I dont  think Assurant needs to increase its offer. When  making this finding I 
also note Mr M says,  in effect,  hell only receive £564.67 under the policy  as hes had to pay 
a £75 excess. But the excess is due under  the policy when making a successful claim. And I 
dont think Assurant has acted unreasonably by not factoring that into the offer its made. Its 
offer is based on the likely amount  hell have  to pay to buy a like for like replacement,  and for 
the reasons Ive explained above, the offer is fair and reasonable.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask him to accept or reject  my decision before 10 August 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6355680