K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Ms T are unhappy  that esure  Insurance Limited didnt tell them about certain 
changes to their legal expenses insurance  (LEI)  policy   which  formed part of their home 
insurance policy  when it renewed  in March 2017.
background
Mr P and Ms T had a home  insurance  policy which included a LEI policy.  This was due to 
renew on 30 March 2017.  At the point  of renewal, some changes were  made  to the policy.  
Mr P and Ms T say they werent notified  of all the changes; in particular they say they 
werent told that under the LEI policy they would only now be covered if an employment 
dispute was issued in the employment tribunal. 
They say this was more restrictive then the terms of the LEI policy  that was in place 
immediately prior to renewal. They also say that this change impacted  them  because  after the 
policy renewed again in March 2018, Mr P sought to make  a claim under the LEI policy to 
cover an employment dispute  arising out of a breach of his employment  contract. That claim 
wouldve needed to have been  brought in the county court  as it related to his former employer 
giving a misleading reference to a prospective  employer.  However,  it was ultimately  turned  
down by the LEI provider as not being covered under the terms of the LEI policy.
Mr P and Ms T say if theyd been notified of all the changes to the LEI policy shortly before 
renewal at the end of Mach 2017, they would never have gone ahead  and renewed the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr P and Ms Ts complaint. Mr P and Ms T disagreed. 
So their complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive considered whether esure  acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  sending  
Mr P and Ms T the renewal documents. The relevant industry rules and guidance say at the 
point of renewal the insurer  should  make certain  information clear and let the consumer know  
that they should check whether the level of cover offered  by the renewal is right for them.  
Its not uncommon for an insurer to want to make some changes  to the terms of the policy  
and generally,  we dont think its unreasonable of it to do that at renewal  as a new 
insurance contract is being offered.  But, when  doing so, I would expect esure to highlight  to 
Mr P and Ms T any significant changes in the renewal invitation,  so they can consider if the 
policy remained suitable for them.
The renewal  documentation  from March  2017  does highlight changes to the LEI policy;  Mr P 
and Ms T are given  details of the new underwriter of the LEI policy  and some further 
exclusions (not relating  to this particular complaint)  are added.
Ive looked at the full policy terms that were  in place at renewal. Employment  disputes  are 
covered but only claims that are bought before an employment tribunal against an employer 
- or ex employer - arising from a breach of an employment contract.
Ref: DRN66553902This is different to whats  said in the LEI policy terms that was in place immediately before 
the renewal on 30 March 2017   which was underwritten by a different insurance provider. 
That policy simply says cover  will be provided  for a dispute relating to the policyholders 
contract of employment. Theres no specific reference to just covering employment tribunal 
claims. So I can understand why Mr P and Ms T say the LEI policy  in place before the 
renewal in 2017 also provided  cover  for employment disputes arising in the county court; 
because the previous LEI policy is silent on that issue.
But I dont need  to make  a finding on whether the employment dispute section of the LEI 
policy offered less coverage on renewal  and whether this should  have  been  expressly  
communicated to Mr P and Ms T when the renewal documents were sent out. Thats  
because even if I concluded this was the case,  to uphold their complaint I would also need to 
find that if theyd  been  aware of those changes, they wouldve done something different (i.e. 
they wouldnt have  renewed the policy in 2017 with esure or wouldve chosen not to add the 
LEI cover to the home insurance policy).  
Ms T says if theyd  been  informed the LEI policy didnt cover them for employment disputes 
which needed to be brought  in the county court, she and Mr P wouldnt have renewed  the 
policy in 2017.  Of course,  I cant know what they wouldve done but on the balance  of 
probabilities  and without  the applying hindsight - Im not persuaded they wouldve done  
anything differently. 
Thats because:
the vast majority  of employment  disputes  are brought  in the employment  tribunal and 
the courts  dont  have the jurisdiction to deal with many complaints. So, if theyd known 
that employment claims that needed to be brought outside of the employment tribunal  
process wouldnt  be covered, I dont  think that in itself wouldve put them off renewing 
the policy  given  their circumstances in early  2017.
 
although  Mr P did submit a claim under  the LEI policy to cover  a county court claim for 
breach of his employment contract, that was nearly a year and a half after the terms of 
his policy changed.  And I dont  think  at the time of renewal  he wouldve contemplated 
needing to bring that sort of claim then.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all of Ms Ts comments including what she 
says about Mr P experiencing ill health  as a result of the treatment by his employer going  
back to 2016.  
Although Mr P had a grievance at work,  which was being investigated  at the time the policy 
renewed in March 2017, the events that led to that grievance  as Ms P accepts - were 
longstanding. So if hed wanted to make  a claim under the LEI policy to cover  legal action  
relating to any of the issues that led to him raising that grievance, or the grievance process 
itself, they wouldve pre-dated the change  in LEI provider.  So its unlikely that those issues   
or any related  and continuing issues that post-dated  the renewal  wouldve been  covered 
by the new LEI provider in any event (although they potentially  could  be covered by the LEI 
policy in place at the time the events  first occurred).
Ref: DRN66553903my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6655390