K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) took more than they should 
from his account  for overdraft charges.
background
On 10 September  2018 Mr M contacted NatWest unhappy his transaction to buy coach 
tickets for £70.25  was declined that day. Mr M said the available  balance on his account that 
day was just over £68 and had it not been for additional overdraft charges of £4.64 - over the 
£30 charges hed been  told to expect - he wouldve  had enough in the account. And he said 
this mistake had prevented him from travelling  to and attending a conference  for which hed 
already bought tickets at a cost of £240. He asked NatWest to pay him compensation and to 
refund the cost of the unused conference  tickets.
NatWest apologised  for providing  incorrect information  about Mr Ms charges in the call with 
them in July 2018. But even though NatWest said they could have made that error  they 
didnt agree to compensate him for the cost of the conference tickets as - due to other 
transactions he made on 10 September - his available balance was only £18.18 significantly 
less than what hed intended to pay for the coach tickets. NatWest  said as the cost of the 
coach ticket was far greater than the difference between the stated amount and the actual 
amount of charges debited they didnt agree their mistake had caused Mr M to miss the 
conference. Mr M brought the complaint  to us.
Our investigator found even if the banks  mistake wouldnt  have  occurred the coach tickets 
transaction wouldnt have gone  through as Mr M wouldve needed around £57.13 extra  on 
his account to go ahead with the transaction successfully. And she thought  NatWests  
actions in refunding  the full amount of charges to rectify any errors regarding the information 
previously provided to him to be a fair and reasonable action in response to the complaint.
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He thought the bank had 
admitted wrongdoing. He felt the investigator had focussed on how the tickets were bought 
as she knew Mr M wouldnt be able to resolve  this and it was used as an excuse and reason 
to justify the banks  wrongdoing.  Mr M said he thought  this service existed to protect banks 
and justify their wrong doing and he felt hed been  interrogated by the investigator  and asked 
for NatWest to be treated in the same way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr M feels our 
investigator hasnt investigated his complaint in a balanced way and has shown bias towards 
NatWest. Ive looked at everything afresh  before reaching an independent view.
Its my role to put consumers back into the position that they would have  been  in if a mistake  
hadnt been made. So firstly Ive got to see if NatWest did anything  wrong and, if so, then go 
onto consider what redress should  be awarded. For reasons Ill explain Im not persuaded 
NatWest did anything wrong. 
The records  provided  by NatWest satisfy me the history of transactions  and balance  on the 
account set out by the investigator  in her view is correct - so I wont  repeat them  here. From 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied that - irrespective of the difference  between  the overdraft 
Ref: DRN65929512charges actually taken  and those Mr M believed to be due  Mr M didnt have enough money  
in his available balance to buy the coach tickets. So I cant say NatWest did anything wrong 
when they declined the transaction.
Mr M told us Nat West said in a call in July 2018 that his overdraft charges would never be 
over £30 and that they admitted wrongdoing. Theres no call recording available  from 
July 2018 but NatWest  acknowledge  that misinformation could have been given and have 
refunded the full amount  of charges taken - £34.64  on a goodwill basis. I dont think  thats  
an admission. And - as the shortfall was over ten times the amount of the discrepancy  in 
charges - even if there had been  a mistake by the bank in charging £34.64 rather than £30 
this wouldnt change my decision. 
Ultimately its Mr Ms responsibility to manage  the account and any agreed overdraft within 
the terms of the account. The call was around  two months before  Mr M planned to travel. But 
he was issued with a statement  both by post and online  on 21 August 2018  showing the 
proposed charges to be a higher amount - £34.64 - than he was told. So I think Mr M ought  
reasonably to have  been  aware NatWest  were planning to take a higher amount for the 
overdraft charges some weeks before 10 September 2018. I cant see he took any action to 
contact NatWest and question this over those weeks before the travel  was necessary. 
I appreciate Mr M fells strongly about  this and anticipate hell be disappointed by my 
decision. But for the reasons Ive explained I think NatWests response to refund  all the 
charges was a reasonable one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6592951