K820x#14complaint
J, a limited company,  is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited handled  its claim under  
its business insurance policy following damage  at its rented premises.  
background
H (a sole trader), who is a third party in law for the purpose of this case, had buildings  
insurance with Ageas  to cover commercial  premises. J rented these premises  from H  
which J used as a wholesale  bathroom showroom. J had business insurance with Ageas  
which, among other things, covered  its stock and business  interruption. Mr H is a sole 
trader  trading as H  and also the director of J. 
On 19 February 2018, the gutter  next to the roof of Hs property, which  J rented, was 
damaged causing  water to come in. Mr H said he attempted a repair  immediately, but 
this wasnt successful.  
The next day, Mr H got a quote for approximately £13,000  to repair  the roof.  
On 23 February 2018, Ageass loss adjuster visited the property. The report  noted 
several pallets of stock  were affected by the water  coming in; and that a small amount of 
stock was damaged  by water  that spread across  the floor.  While  not covered by the 
report, Ageas told us that Mr H agreed  to repair the roof (at least  temporarily). But Mr H 
said he only speculatively asked about carrying out the restoration works   but he didnt 
offer to repair the roof. He said Ageas agreed the quote  hed obtained seemed 
expensive, so the loss adjuster asked him to get others.   
From  27 February 2018,  it rained daily until 18 March 2018  causing further water 
damage. 
On 6 and 8 March  2018, Mr H purchased  materials  to carry out a temporary repair. 
On 7 March 2018, the loss adjuster contacted Mr H. They  said they were waiting for 
Ageass decision  on liability (to indemnify under Hs and Js business  policies)  and asked 
for information to support the stock lost and for reinstating the damaged displays.  
On 14 March 2018, Mr H appointed  a loss assessor. (In general, loss assessors  act for 
policyholders where loss adjusters act for insurers.)  On the same day, the loss assessor 
emailed the brokers  asking them to contact the loss adjuster to urgently arrange  a site 
visit. They also explained they instructed Mr H to move  the damaged  stock  to hired 
containers for inspection, shut down the damaged showroom and set up a temporary 
showroom. 
On 19 March 2018, Mr H chased  the loss adjuster by email, saying hed been trying  to 
call since last week. He said he needed their agreement to hire containers. 
The same  day, the loss adjuster  contacted Mr H. They asked  for confirmation that a 
temporary repair had been  carried out and suggested they didnt object to container hire. 
They again  asked  for details of the stock  loss, so they could arrange a second  site visit. 
And they offered a contractor  if further  drying was needed. 
Ref: DRN66059242Between 19 and 21 March 2018, Mr H carried out a temporary repair  to the roof, which 
was largely successful. 
From  22 March 2018, Js stock was moved  to hired  containers. 
In April 2018, Mr H started to strip out the displays and began to dry the property.  He 
also submitted quotes to permanently repair the roof. This included a quote  for Mr H to 
repair the roof. However, Ageas approved a different contractor. 
In the same month,  the loss adjuster  requested further information  about  the stock,  
financial information for the business-interruption  claim, and costs for the strip-out, 
drying-out and reinstatement claim. They also explained that the showroom area is 
categorised under  the policy as tenant  improvements, which  J wasnt  covered for. This 
meant the strip-out or re-fitting  of studwork,  ceilings  or electrics wasnt  covered. They  
also turned down Mr Hs proposal  for a temporary  showroom  they believed it would be 
quicker to reinstate  the damaged showroom. 
In response,  the loss assessor  said Mr Hs accountants were preparing the overall stock 
value and financial information. And that, given the damage, it was taking time to detail 
the stock lost. They also believed the showroom was covered under Hs building  policy  
and, in general, highlighted Ageass lack of assistance  with the claim. 
In May 2018, work continued to strip out plumbing, electrics,  internal walls and insulation. 
Around June 2018, the roof was permanently repaired  and Mr H withdrew the drying  
equipment on account  of the better weather. 
In July 2018, the loss adjuster visited the site again. They noted the stock was moved to 
containers and the units had been  stripped out. As the drying wasnt  complete,  they 
instructed a contractor  to look into this. Mr H refused, as his own company was carrying 
out the works. The loss adjuster also confirmed receipt of information about  Js stock. 
In the same month,  Mr H submitted  a scope of work to Ageas. The works had been 
carried out by A, a company Mr H set up which  ultimately was part of J. 
Given the increase  in reserve  (i.e. the sum an insurer  estimates for indemnifying a 
claim) and questions  over documents, a reservation of rights was issued by Ageas. In 
other words, it had not committed  to covering the claim in full or at all. In August 2018,  
those acting for Ageas interviewed  Mr H. In summary: 
oMr H explained he only speculatively asked about carrying  out the works himself  
during the initial  site visit  he denied agreeing to repair the roof. And said that he 
carried out the temporary repair  as a last resort   due to construction regulations  
and health and safety, he shouldnt have been on the roof. The interviewer 
referenced Mr Hs quote to carry out a full repair in April 2018  asking why hed 
not done that sooner.  Mr H said he wasnt authorised by them to do so. 
oMr H explained he specifically set up A to carry out the works, given Ageass lack 
of action. 
In September  2018, Ageas asked further questions via email about the initial  repairs,  As 
invoices, as well as requests for information  about  Js business interruption. In October  
Ref: DRN660592432018, Mr H responded  to this. Around November 2018, a new loss adjuster was 
appointed and Mr Hs loss assessor was told the claim  would be covered. 
In January 2019, the loss assessor  submitted a bundle to support the claim  including  
details of the stock  lost, tender documents,  strip-out costs,  and the temporary  showroom 
costings. Details of Js business interruption claim followed  shortly  after,  further to input 
from Mr Hs accountant. 
Following disagreements over the settlement  and Ageass decision not to renew Hs or 
Js policies, Mr H raised a complaint. In February 2019, Ageas responded. It noted how 
the reserve for the claim had significantly increased  and that, given this, a surveyor 
would attend the site.  
In April 2019, further to another site visit, Ageas  proposed an offer to settle the claim: 
oIt said its ability to assess the claim had been prejudiced because  Mr H had 
moved the stock  and stripped-out the property.  
oIt offered  £51,900 for Hs buildings claim (minus the excess and amounts already 
settled). This excluded what  Ageas believed were  tenant improvements, which  
werent covered  under  either policy. 
o£15,000 for Js stock  lost. It said this claim was overstated  and unsubstantiated  
noting how items were  unlikely to have been  affected by the path of water, and 
that the nature of the bathroom items meant  they couldve  been repackaged.
o£31,000 for Js business interruption. This was based on a comparison with the 
previous year from March to November, inclusive. This ignored a negative trend 
in business before  the incident  and any delays in the restoration works.  It also 
included £8,000 for container hire costs.  
oIt wouldnt pay for the temporary showroom, as it wasnt clear how it financially 
benefited the business interruption  claim  or whether it was just a temporary 
measure. 
oIt also wouldnt cover  £50,000 marketing/advertising costs, as these werent 
substantiated. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H bought Js and Hs complaints  to us. In summary:  
oHe considered that Ageass inaction following his notification  of the claim is what  
led to both the further damage and the actions he had to take to restore  the 
property. He disputed  that he agreed to repair the roof and that he didnt mitigate 
H or Js losses.  
oAgeas  hasnt substantiated its offer of settlement, whereas he spent time 
substantiating Hs and Js claims. 
oHe considered that the internal structures  that Ageas describes as tenant 
improvements should fall under Hs buildings insurance.  
Ref: DRN66059244oIn relation to Js business interruption claim, Ageas hasnt properly accounted  for 
the money he put into the business to keep it running.  
Prior to J and H bringing  the complaints to our service,  Ageas paid £20,000 in interim 
payments, as well as settling the invoice for the permanent roof repair. During the 
course of our investigation, Ageas  has also paid £66,750, which  represents  the 
outstanding balance under its offer of settlement for Hs and Js claims.  
On 6 July 2021, I sent my provisional findings  which didnt uphold Js complaint. Ive 
attached a copy of this to my decision.  
Ageas  didnt add anything  further by the deadline. Mr H disagreed  with my findings   
in summary: 
oIt was a legal error to suggest that despite  health  and safety  regulations, he 
and his employees repair the roof in the rain. 
oMy findings are contradictory   they said Ageas told us that Mr H agreed to 
repair the roof, and it also noted  that Mr H attempted a repair  immediately. 
oI ignored how Ageas didnt reply to Mr Hs emails at a crucial time  after the 
damage happened while it was still raining. 
oIt was a legal error to suggest that he sold defective and mould infected 
products to vulnerable clients, despite his policy forbidding this and it being 
illegal. 
oIve supported Ageas offer of settlement. So Ive not carried out my own 
calculations nor have  I sought to confirm Mr Hs calculations.  In doing so, Ive 
ignored an expert witnesss report,  meter readings, and photos on the 
condition of the building and goods. 
oMy findings were different to those  of our investigator, and I said I was 
unlikely to reverse my provisional decision. 
oIve not considered how Ageas  redacted information from Mr Hs data subject  
access request. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having carefully considered Mr Hs response, my decision is not to uphold  this complaint. 
Thats not to say that my mind couldnt have been  changed. But that the response hasnt 
persuaded me that it should be. 
Mr H has asked me to reply to each  of his points. Ive considered his responses,  alongside  
the file in its entirety, very carefully. But my role as an ombudsman is to reach a decision  and 
explain why. So, its not to address every point if I dont think  its material  to the outcome of 
the complaint.   
Ref: DRN66059245I have, however, commented on the key issues in Mr Hs response  as I see them: 
mitigation 
Mr H said it wouldve  been against  health and safety regulations  to repair  the roof in 
the rain.
Im satisfied  my provisional findings addressed this point as follows:
I recognise it rained  for some time after the damage  happened. But there  was a clear 
period at the start  and some days with much  less rain. Theres also no independent 
evidence to say that a temporary repair couldnt have  reasonably  been  carried  out 
sooner, given the rain, to make  the premises watertight. 
 
Mr H hasnt presented any specific regulations   only that a contractor must work in a 
manner that secures the health  and safety of those involved. I accept that, but this 
still relies on Mr Hs own opinion that what was being asked here  a temporary  
repair  wouldve been contrary to health  and safety in these circumstances. As Ive 
explained, he cant be an expert on his own cause. 
And even if I accept Mr Hs point, he still hasnt persuaded  me why a temporary 
repair wasnt made during the clear period immediately after the damage happened. 
It follows that theres still no independent evidence  to support that the work  couldnt 
have been carried  out sooner  either as a result  of the weather conditions, and/or as 
a result of the time needed to purchase  materials and carry out research.  
Mr H also said my provisional  findings were contradictory: they said Ageas told us 
Mr H agreed to repair the roof, and they also noted  that Mr H attempted a repair  
immediately.
In Mr Hs submissions  to us, he said that on the day the damage happened,  he 
unsuccessfully attempted to repair the roof. I dont think  that means Mr H couldnt  
have offered to repair the roof in his meeting with the loss adjuster  a few days  later.  
My provisional findings set out why I think thats the case, so I wont repeat this again 
here. 
Mr H also said how Ageas ignored  his emails  at a crucial time. The evidence Ive 
seen suggests  there  was around  a week, in mid-March, where Mr H was contacting  
the loss adjuster but didnt hear back.  I dont think this was a significant delay  nor 
do I think it materially changed  Js position.  Thats because  Im persuaded that Mr H 
had already agreed to carry out a temporary  repair. And I note that in the 
communication with the loss adjuster, there wasnt any specific mention that the 
temporary roof repair was outstanding  and required input from the insurer.  Instead,  
the focus was gaining  authorisation  for the container  hire. So, in all, I dont think the 
insurers communication is to blame for the temporary repair  not being sorted out 
sooner. 
settlement for Js stock
Ref: DRN66059246Mr H said he couldnt have sold his damaged  stock, given his vulnerable clients and 
that his policy terms say J should  take reasonable care to prevent accidents or 
disease; and to prevent the sale of goods  which are defective  in any way. 
My provisional findings  werent to suggest  Mr H sell defective  stock. But rather  that I 
thought Ageas offer of settlement was a fair reflection of the damage to Mr Hs stock, 
taking account  that some items  will be a total loss, and others may be shop-soiled 
but still of satisfactory quality and/or  fit for purpose. 
I recognise Mr H disagrees that the items can be salvaged to be of satisfactory 
quality. But as my provisional findings explained, theres no independent expert 
evidence to support  that  which I think was necessary  here. I also note that his own 
calculations included  a cost to restore many of the items  so it seems hes 
acknowledged this wasnt a total loss situation. 
Mr H said J doesnt sell such stock. But that doesnt mean it cant  be sold and that 
the stock is no longer  of any value. And ultimately, J is insured for damage to its 
stock. So, it doesnt also cover  consequential  losses and inconveniences  like 
selling some goods at a discount  when thats not your usual market. 
I appreciate our investigator reached  a different  conclusion on Js stock losses.  But 
its my role to determine the complaint by what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
I understand Mr H also thinks Im biased  because I agreed with Ageass offer of 
settlement. But Ive explained why I reached  this decision.  So I dont  agree  my 
opinion was disproportionately and unfairly  weighted in Ageas favour.  
other matters 
Mr H has raised  concerns with how his data subject access  request  (DSAR) was 
redacted by Ageas. For the avoidance  of doubt, Im satisfied that Ive enough 
information to reach  a fair decision on this complaint  Im not persuaded theres 
further information I needed to see.
Should Mr H wish to raise concerns  specifically  about how Ageas  handled  the DSAR, 
then hell need to approach Ageas first, as I cant see thats been raised and 
considered by it yet. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2021.
Emma Szkolar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66059247PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
J, a limited company,  is unhappy with how Ageas  Insurance Limited handled its claim  under  its 
business insurance  policy  following damage at its rented premises.   
background
H (a sole trader), who is a third party in law for the purpose  of this case, had buildings insurance  
with Ageas to cover  commercial premises. J rented  these  premises from H  which  J used as a 
wholesale bathroom  showroom. J had business insurance with Ageas  which, among  other things,  
covered its stock and business interruption. Mr H is a sole trader  trading as H  and also the 
director of J. 
On 19 February 2018, the gutter next to the roof of Hs property,  which J rented, was damaged 
causing water  to come  in. Mr H said he attempted  a repair immediately,  but this wasnt 
successful. 
The next day, Mr H got a quote for approximately  £13,000 to repair the roof.  
On 23 February 2018, Ageass loss adjuster  visited the property. The report  noted several pallets 
of stock were affected by the water coming in; and that a small amount of stock was damaged by 
water that spread across the floor. While  not covered by the report, Ageas  told us that Mr H 
agreed to repair the roof (at least  temporarily).  But Mr H said he only speculatively asked about  
carrying out the restoration works  but he didnt  offer to repair  the roof. He said Ageas agreed 
the quote  hed obtained seemed expensive, so the loss adjuster asked him to get others.    
From 27 February 2018,  it rained  daily until 18 March  2018 causing further water damage.  
On 6 and 8 March  2018, Mr H purchased materials  to carry  out a temporary  repair. 
On 7 March 2018, the loss adjuster  contacted  Mr H. They said they were waiting  for Ageass  
decision on liability (to indemnify under Hs and Js business policies)  and asked for information  to 
support the stock lost and for reinstating the damaged displays.   
On 14 March 2018,  Mr H appointed a loss assessor.  (In general, loss assessors  act for 
policyholders where loss adjusters  act for insurers.) On the same day, the loss assessor emailed  
the brokers asking them to contact the loss adjuster to urgently  arrange a site visit. They also 
explained they instructed Mr H to move the damaged  stock to hired  containers for inspection, shut 
down the damaged showroom  and set up a temporary showroom. 
On 19 March 2018,  Mr H chased  the loss adjuster by email, saying hed been trying to call since 
last week.  He said he needed  their agreement to hire containers.  
The same  day, the loss adjuster contacted Mr H. They asked for confirmation  that a temporary  
repair had been carried out and suggested they didnt  object  to container hire. They again asked 
for details  of the stock loss, so they could  arrange a second site visit. And they offered a 
contractor if further drying was needed. 
Between 19 and 21 March 2018, Mr H carried  out a temporary repair to the roof, which was 
largely successful.  
From 22 March 2018, Js stock  was moved to hired containers. 
Ref: DRN66059248In April 2018, Mr H started to strip out the displays and began  to dry the property.  He also 
submitted quotes  to permanently repair  the roof. This included a quote for Mr H to repair  the roof. 
However, Ageas approved a different contractor.  
In the same month, the loss adjuster  requested  further information  about the stock, financial  
information for the business-interruption  claim, and costs for the strip-out, drying-out and 
reinstatement claim. They also explained  that the showroom area is categorised under the policy 
as tenant  improvements,  which  J wasnt covered  for. This meant the strip-out or re-fitting of 
studwork, ceilings or electrics wasnt covered.  They also turned down Mr Hs proposal for a 
temporary showroom  they believed it would be quicker to reinstate the damaged showroom.  
In response, the loss assessor said Mr Hs accountants were  preparing the overall stock value 
and financial  information. And that, given the damage, it was taking time to detail the stock lost. 
They also believed the showroom  was covered  under Hs building  policy and, in general, 
highlighted Ageass lack of assistance with the claim.  
In May 2018, work  continued to strip out plumbing,  electrics, internal  walls and insulation.  Around 
June 2018, the roof was permanently repaired and Mr H withdrew the drying equipment  on 
account of the better weather. 
In July 2018, the loss adjuster visited the site again. They noted the stock  was moved to 
containers and the units had been stripped out. As the drying wasnt complete, they instructed a 
contractor to look into this. Mr H refused,  as his own company  was carrying out the works. The 
loss adjuster also confirmed receipt of information about  Js stock. 
In the same month, Mr H submitted a scope of work to Ageas. The works had been carried out by 
A, a company Mr H set up which ultimately was part of J. 
Given the increase  in reserve (i.e. the sum an insurer estimates for indemnifying a claim)  and 
questions over documents, a reservation of rights was issued by Ageas. In other words, it had not 
committed to covering the claim  in full or at all. In August 2018,  those acting for Ageas 
interviewed Mr H. In summary:  
oMr H explained he only speculatively  asked  about  carrying out the works himself  during 
the initial  site visit  he denied agreeing to repair  the roof. And said that he carried out the 
temporary repair as a last resort  due to construction regulations and health and safety, 
he shouldnt have been on the roof. The interviewer referenced Mr Hs quote to carry  out 
a full repair  in April 2018  asking  why hed not done that sooner. Mr H said he wasnt 
authorised by them  to do so. 
oMr H explained he specifically  set up A to carry out the works, given  Ageass lack of 
action. 
In September 2018, Ageas asked further questions via email about the initial repairs, As invoices,  
as well as requests for information about Js business interruption. In October  2018, Mr H 
responded to this. Around November 2018, a new loss adjuster was appointed and Mr Hs loss 
assessor was told the claim would be covered.  
In January 2019, the loss assessor submitted  a bundle to support the claim  including  details of 
the stock lost, tender documents, strip-out costs, and the temporary  showroom costings.  Details  
of Js business interruption claim  followed  shortly  after,  further to input from Mr Hs accountant. 
Following disagreements over the settlement and Ageass decision not to renew Hs or Js 
policies, Mr H raised a complaint. In February 2019, Ageas responded. It noted how the reserve  
for the claim  had significantly increased  and that, given this, a surveyor would attend the site.  
In April 2019, further  to another site visit, Ageas proposed an offer to settle the claim: 
Ref: DRN66059249oIt said its ability to assess the claim had been prejudiced because Mr H had moved  the 
stock and stripped-out the property. 
oIt offered £51,900 for Hs buildings  claim (minus the excess and amounts already settled).  
This excluded  what Ageas believed  were tenant improvements, which werent covered 
under either policy.  
o£15,000 for Js stock lost. It said this claim was overstated and unsubstantiated   noting 
how items were unlikely to have been affected by the path of water, and that the nature  of 
the bathroom items meant they couldve been repackaged.
o£31,000 for Js business interruption. This was based on a comparison  with the previous 
year from March to November, inclusive. This ignored a negative  trend in business before 
the incident and any delays in the restoration works. It also included £8,000 for container 
hire costs. 
oIt wouldnt pay for the temporary showroom,  as it wasnt clear how it financially  benefited 
the business interruption claim   or whether it was just a temporary  measure. 
oIt also wouldnt cover  £50,000 marketing/advertising costs, as these  werent 
substantiated. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H bought  Js and Hs complaints to us. In summary: 
oHe considered that Ageass inaction  following  his notification  of the claim  is what  led to 
both the further damage and the actions he had to take to restore  the property.  He 
disputed that he agreed to repair the roof and that he didnt  mitigate  H or Js losses. 
oAgeas hasnt substantiated its offer of settlement, whereas he spent time substantiating  
Hs and Js claims. 
oHe considered that the internal structures  that Ageas describes as tenant improvements 
should fall under  Hs buildings  insurance.  
oIn relation to Js business interruption claim,  Ageas hasnt properly accounted for the 
money he put into the business to keep it running.  
Prior to J and H bringing the complaints to our service, Ageas paid £20,000 in interim 
payments, as well as settling the invoice  for the permanent  roof repair. During  the course of 
our investigation,  Ageas  has also paid £66,750, which represents the outstanding  balance 
under its offer of settlement  for Hs and Js claims.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This provisional decision solely addresses Js claim  under its business  insurance policy. Thats 
necessary given that J is a distinct limited company under a separate insurance policy. However, 
given that both claims stem from the same event, I have considered both complaints  and naturally, 
parts of my findings overlap.  I am issuing  a separate but linked  decision on Hs complaint.  
mitigation 
Ageas said it authorised Mr H to carry out temporary repairs during its initial site visit in February  
2018. Mr H said he speculatively asked about carrying out the work   meaning the general  building 
Ref: DRN660592410reinstatement  and that he never said he would  repair  the roof. He has added  he was asked to find 
other quotes to permanently repair it, given the expense of the first one he got. But otherwise, he 
wasnt given any direction or offered  any help. 
The report the loss adjuster prepared  is silent on what  was discussed  about repairs. But both sides 
agree some sort of conversation took place. I cant be certain of what was discussed, but civil 
disputes like this are only decided on the balance  of probabilities. In other words, whats more likely 
than not to have happened. 
Here, I think  its more  likely that Mr H gave  the impression hed carry out a temporary repair, and the 
loss adjuster agreed with his proposal. Thats because:
Mr H bought materials  to carry  out a temporary repair on 6 and 8 March  2018  so after the 
initial site visit and before  he next heard from the loss adjuster. I think  its unlikely Mr H 
wouldve done this if it hadnt  been discussed during the initial visit.  
In an email from the loss adjuster on 19 March  2018, they asked Mr H to confirm hed done a 
temporary repair. Had this not been agreed, Id have expected  Mr H or his loss assessor to 
have disputed it at the time. But theres no evidence  of that. Instead, the temporary repair 
started that day. This contemporaneous  evidence (or lack of) tends to be more persuasive 
than recollections of a conversation that took place months or years ago. 
While  Mr H and his loss assessor chased the loss adjuster, they didnt  specifically mention  
the roof. Given the amount of water coming in, Id have  expected this issue to have been 
raised if nothing had been agreed.  Instead,  the focus was getting authorisation  to hire 
containers, to move the stock.  
It seems plausible that Mr H offered to repair. I recognise it wasnt his immediate  expertise, 
but it wasnt beyond his capabilities, as evidenced by the eventual temporary  repair  and his 
offer to carry out the permanent  repair (and with a guarantee too).
So, having concluded that Mr H gave the impression  hed carry  out a temporary repair, Ive 
considered whether he did so in a timely manner   to mitigate H and Js losses.  I dont think he did. 
Thats because: 
Mr H explained the temporary repair wasnt straightforward   it took weeks of research, he 
had to source the materials, and it took several men a few days  to carry  out the repair. But 
given the weather  forecast and the likelihood that failing to take any action would  cause 
significant damage, I think this temporary repair ought to have taken priority.  And theres  no 
independent evidence to persuade  me that the time taken to research the temporary repair, 
purchase the materials, and carry it out  i.e. four weeks   was unavoidable. 
I recognise it rained for some time after the damage happened.  But there was a clear period 
at the start  and some  days with much less rain. Theres  also no independent  evidence to 
say that a temporary repair  couldnt have reasonably been carried out sooner, given the rain, 
to make the premises watertight. 
When Mr H was asked during his interview  why he didnt carry out a repair sooner, he said, 
among other things, it was because he wasnt authorised. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
think there was in fact an agreement  made about effecting a temporary repair. But Ive also 
not seen any correspondence  where Mr H specifically sought  authorisation  to carry  out 
repairs to the roof. If he was waiting for this, I think its likely hed have asked at the time. So, 
this doesnt change my mind. 
So, in all, I think its likely  Mr H didnt take the action he gave Ageas the impression he would take in a 
timely enough  manner  and in doing so, I think he didnt adequately mitigate H or Js losses, 
potentially prejudicing Ageass position as insurer of both companies.  
Ref: DRN660592411Ive kept this in mind when Ive considered  Ageass offer of settlement. 
settlement for Js stock
Mr H has itemised that the stock affected by the insured event totalled £74,823  of which he 
estimated that £42,008.96  was lost or damaged. 
Ive considered this claim in light of Ageass  settlement  of just £15,000 for the stock lost. Despite the 
significant difference, I think the offer is fair. Ill explain why: 
Ageas submitted that its position was prejudiced  because Mr H moved  the stock to hired  
containers. But its accepted that was to mitigate Js losses  indeed, Ageas  covered the hire 
costs. And Im satisfied  it had the opportunity  to object to that at the time. So I am with Mr H 
on this point.  
However, I do accept Ageass questions over the extent of the damage. An ombudsman does 
not need  independent expert evidence  to resolve questions of fact within their own life 
experience or that involve matters of common sense. I would reasonably expect, given the 
wet goods nature  of the stock  (bathroom  items  and sanitaryware), that many items could 
withstand contact with rainwater. And where the stock was away from the direct pathway of 
water, and on pallets elsewhere, the amount claimed  for seems unreasonable   particularly 
with the efforts Mr H and his team  took to remove water as it built up and move the stock to 
containers. 
Mr H said hes substantiated  Js stock loss, and Ageas hasnt supported its offer. But as Js 
making the claim, the onus rests with it to prove on balance what  Js losses are. Ive reviewed 
the details submitted, which include  estimates of how much it would cost to salvage each 
item. But Mr H cant  be an expert in his own cause.  If he wanted to rebut reasonable 
presumptions on matters of common sense or common experience (of which an ombudsman 
can take notice), he needed to have  consulted an independent expert to explain  why in fact 
everything needed to be sold with such a discount. Without  that, and given  Ageass 
questions, these  details are not sufficiently persuasive. 
Im also mindful  of the conclusion I reached before  that I dont think Mr H sufficiently 
mitigated Js losses.  That means its likely the stock was damaged more  than it ought to have 
been. 
All of this makes it difficult to come to a precise settlement for Js losses.  But, looking at the 
matter in the round,  the contribution of £15,000  represents 20% of the total value of stock. In 
other words, an overall 20% discount to reflect that a small proportion of items will be a total 
loss for J, but some  can be sold at a reasonable discount  to reflect that they are slightly shop 
soiled (i.e. damaged  packaging) but still ultimately of satisfactory  quality and/or fit for 
purpose. 
Looked at this way, alongside the concerns about the reliability of the information, and the 
uncertainty of what the loss wouldve been had Mr H adequately mitigated Js losses, Im 
persuaded this offer is fair and reasonable. 
settlement for Js business  interruption 
Under the policys terms and conditions, Js covered for the loss of gross profit  as a result of 
interruption to business caused  by damage to the property as a result of an insured event   for a 
maximum of 12 months. Thats worked  out by: 
a)looking at the rate of gross profit earned on Js turnover in the previous financial year in 
comparison to what it earned  during the indemnity period  as a result of the damage. 
Ref: DRN660592412b)looking at what J necessarily and reasonably paid that was only to stop Js turnover  reducing 
during the indemnity  period. This cant be more than the gross profit  J saved by spending  this 
money.
Im satisfied Ageass offer of £31,000 reflected the first point  Js loss of gross profit   supported by 
Mr Hs accountant. I dont  think thats disputed.  
But Mr H has argued that the offer doesnt account for the £100,000 that he personally injected into J 
 to keep  it running.  Its difficult  to see where, under Js policy, Mr H would be covered  for any 
personal sacrifices hes made. And either way, I understand this was a temporary loan so Mr H 
should get all his money back. So I cant reasonably expect  the policy to cover it as an increase cost 
of working when, ultimately, its not a cost the insured party will suffer. (Its important to distinguish  
between discrete legal  persons  in a case such as this, where someone acts in different capacities at 
different times  and sometimes in dual capacities simultaneously.)
I understand Mr H also set up a temporary showroom   but theres no persuasive evidence that it 
was, firstly,  necessary; secondly, was done just to reduce turnover, as opposed  to something more  
permanent; and, thirdly, of the financial  benefit  claimed. Without  that, I think  Ageass  decision not to 
cover these costs is fair. 
Ive also noted Js submitted a £50,000 claim  for marketing and advertising costs. But similarly to the 
showroom issue, its not clear exactly how these costs  relate to the insurance claim and/or mitigation 
of loss, or how they avoided a reduction in turnover as a result of such  matters (as opposed  to normal 
business promotion). Its also uncertain this would  be less that any gross profit J saved during  the 
indemnity period, as per the policy terms. So, Im minded to agree with Ageass  decision not to pay 
these costs.  
Mr H has also submitted  that the indemnity period  should be extended from nine months.  The 
maximum period  under Js policy is 12 months. And Ive not seen evidence to suggest  J was affected,  
in consequence of the damage , for longer  than nine months.  Instead, it seems any longer-term effects  
were in consequence of the time taken to substantiate the claim and the dispute over the settlement.  
But Im not convinced  Ageas  was to blame  for that  and generally, I think the settlement proposed in 
April 2019 was reasonable. Im also mindful that the existing indemnity period  seemingly wasnt 
reduced to reflect that the damage couldve  been mitigated. So overall, Im satisfied that the nine-
month indemnity period  used is fair and reasonable. 
conclusion 
Having considered  this matter carefully, I am satisfied that Ageass  offer to settle Js claim  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.  I know this will disappoint and upset Mr H, given his 
understandable strength of feeling over this. And that, going through  any significant  claim that affects  
someones businesses is inevitably difficult for them,  made worse when therere these sorts  of 
disputes along the way. 
Ref: DRN660592413Its not my intention to add to that. But as an impartial decision-maker, I must reach  what  I think  is a 
fair outcome, looking  at what both sides have presented. Of course, should J ultimately not accept 
any final decision, it would  remain free to explore other possibilities   such  as taking this dispute to 
court. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  Js complaint. I will consider any new points 
submitted before the deadline set out at the start  but, to manage expectations, I am unlikely to 
change my mind without clear evidence  or arguments showing that I have made a legal  or factual  
error, or have otherwise reached a conclusion  that is inherently unfair or unreasonable. 
Emma Szkolar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6605924