K820x#14complaint
Miss B and her representative Mrs B, her mother, complain about the way Bank of Scotland  
plc (trading as Halifax) has handled  an account Mrs B opened and held as trustee  for her 
daughter. 
background
Mrs B made a withdrawal  from the account  in May 2018 without  any problem. But shortly  
afterwards she was told both she and her husband  Mr B were  named on the account. Mr B 
was removed from the account.  But on a later visit to a branch Mrs B couldnt make a 
withdrawal as she was told she wasnt a named party on it. Mrs B is unhappy with whats  
happened and says Mr B shouldnt  have  been associated with the account  in any way. 
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that it apologised for the poor level of service  
given to Mrs B. And it was upholding the complaint. It said it was clear Mrs B had opened the 
account for Miss B but a recent system  update had selected the incorrect adult as her 
trustee. To put things  right and for the inconvenience Mrs B had experienced it was offering 
to pay her £400. That was £250  as an apology for the data breach and £150 for the upset 
caused. It said it would also cover the cost of any additional expenses  Mrs B had incurred 
registering her complaint.
Mrs B remained unhappy  and wanted a clear explanation of what happened. She said Mr B 
has no accounts with Bank of Scotland. This issue caused tension between  her and Mr B. 
She wants more compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said Bank of Scotland has given 
an explanation  of what happened and said the error occurred because  of a system update. 
Its admitted its error and corrected things. Its also offered  a total of £400 compensation 
which is fair and proportionate to the level of inconvenience the error caused. She cant ask 
Bank of Scotland to pay any more.
Mrs B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says Bank of 
Scotland hasnt  given  a clear explanation as to how it managed to make  such  a huge 
mistake giving someone else access to the account. The compensation in no way reflects  
the amount of stress  and upset shes been caused and the problems its caused in her 
marriage and relationship  with Mr B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland has accepted it let Mrs B down  and caused distress and inconvenience. 
Its corrected the error. This is all reasonable. 
Mrs B remains unhappy with the detail provided  by Bank of Scotland. I understand her 
frustration but I think it has adequately  explained  its position when it says this error  was 
caused by a system  update. And I dont think I can reasonably ask it to do any more in this 
regard.
Ref: DRN60670352Mrs B also wants  more  than £400  compensation. I recognise her strength of feeling  and 
understand the effects of the error and the inconvenience caused. 
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this. And we wouldnt normally award compensation to a consumers  
representative. 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to pay a total of £400 compensation for whats 
happened and the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make I think this offer is fair. 
And I dont  think I can reasonably require it to pay any more  as Mrs B would like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs Bs strength of feeling and frustration I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case. I simply leave it to Mrs B to 
decide if she wants to accept Bank of Scotlands offer of paying £400 compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf  of 
Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6067035