K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr L under a hire purchase agreement  with Oodle Car Finance 
thats dated in May 2018. He contacted  Oodle  Car Finance about two weeks  later and said 
that the agreement was no longer affordable for him because his circumstances  had 
changed and his earnings had fallen. He contacted it again at the end of that month and said 
that he wanted to cancel  the agreement and that the convertible roof wasnt working  and the 
boot wouldnt close so the car was undriveable. 
The dealer  inspected the car in July 2018 and found that a mode had been selected causing  
issues with its battery  and roof. It de-selected that mode and said that the car was in good 
running order so was returned to Mr L. Mr L then complained to Oodle Car Finance about 
those issues and about the quality  of the cars paintwork. It said that there  was no fault with 
the car so it was unable to accept a rejection.  And it said its collections team was liaising 
with him about  his payments and it set out some options that were available  to him. Mr L 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Since then the agreement  has been  voluntarily terminated and the cars been  collected from 
Mr L but his account  is in arrears. He says he didnt  ask to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement and it was instigated by the debt collection solicitors  although he agreed to it. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  consider  
that the reasons that Mr L had put forward were valid reasons to reject the car and they 
hadnt stopped him from using it for around  five months without making any payments 
towards it (although  Mr L says that he didnt use it after the first two weeks). 
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says,  in summary, 
that he told Oodle  Car Finance about the damage to the car in May 2018 when it broke-
down and it didnt  treat him fairly. He says that it took weeks to get hold of it and he had to 
do a 600 mile round-trip  two or three times  a week in the first few weeks that he had the car 
because one of his children was unwell.  He says that Oodle Car Finance got the car back 
but still wants him me to pay more than £6,000 and he was totally  mis-sold the car. He says 
that hes experiencing severe financial difficulties and hes described  the effect that these 
events have had on him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr L for the financial 
and other  difficulties that hes described.
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age, and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr L was nearly six years  old, had been driven for more than 56,000 miles and had a price 
of £11,980. Satisfactory quality also covers durability  which  means that the components 
Ref: DRN65635012within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr L in May 2018.  He called out a breakdown service about two 
weeks later because of issues with the roof and boot and says that he complained to Oodle 
Car Finance about those issues and the cars  paintwork. The car was inspected by the 
dealer in July 2018 and it found a fault with the roof setting so it carried  out roof relearn and 
tested to spec and said that it was then working  correctly so the car was returned to Mr L. 
I consider that the issue with the boot and roof was dealt with by the dealer. And Ive seen 
no other evidence  to show that there  continue to be issues  with cars roof or boot that cause 
the car to be undriveable. And when the car was collected from Mr L in November 2018 its 
mileage was recorded as 59,636 and the collection report  says roof electrics  OK. So Mr L 
had been able to use the car to drive more than 3,000 miles. He accepts that he used it to 
make regular 600 mile round trips and says that hes willing  to pay for the two weeks  that 
hes used the car.  
Mr L says that a few weeks  after the car had been supplied to him he noticed  that the cars 
paintwork had been poorly repainted in parts. And hes provided an estimate of £1,656 for 
that issue to be dealt with. But he had an opportunity  to inspect the car before it was 
supplied to him and any issues with the paintwork wouldve been identifiable at such an 
inspection. Ive not seen any evidence to show that the paintwork was misrepresented  to 
Mr L by the dealer.
Im not persuaded that the issues with the roof and boot (which have been dealt with)  or the 
paintwork are enough to cause a six year old car to have been of unsatisfactory  quality when 
it was supplied to Mr L.
Mr L told Oodle Car Finance that the payments for the car were  unaffordable for him about  
two weeks after it had been supplied to him because hes circumstances had changed since  
then. It asked him for evidence of that but he said that he couldnt provide any evidence  
because he was self-employed.  Mr L hasnt complained that the agreement wasnt  
affordable for him when  the car was supplied to him so I havent  considered  that issue  any 
further. Oodle Car Finance then said that its collections team was liaising with Mr L about his 
payments and it set out some options  that were  available to him  including a voluntary 
termination of the car. A quote for a voluntary termination was provided to Mr L in September 
2018. 
Mr L replied by e-mail and said Yes come and collect the car  and Im not liable for any 
arrears. The car was collected from him in November 2018 and I understand that the 
termination payment  and the arrears on his account  remain outstanding. Mr L agreed to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement and he had the car for nearly seven months and was 
able to use it to drive more than 3,000 miles in that time. So I consider that its fair and 
reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to seek payment  of those amounts from Mr L (to the 
extent that its legally entitled to do so). 
Mr L says that hes experiencing financial difficulties. Oodle  Car Finance is required to 
respond to any such difficulties positively and sympathetically. So I suggest that Mr L 
contacts it to try to agree an affordable repayment plan for the money  that he owes to it 
which takes account of his ability to pay. But Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  
to show that Oodle Car Finance has acted  incorrectly in its dealings with Mr L  including  in 
response to his complaint. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
Ref: DRN65635013circumstances for me to require it to write-off  the amounts that he owes  to it or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
Mr L has recently complained that the car was mis-sold to him. But Ive seen no evidence to 
show that hes complained about  that to the dealer or Oodle Car Finance. If he wants  to 
make a complaint  that the car was mis-sold to him then he would need to complain to the 
dealer or Oodle  Car Finance and then,  if hes not satisfied with its response,  he may be able 
to complain to this service. But in reaching  my decision on this complaint Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the car was mis-sold to him.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563501