K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  and then closed her account, and loaded a 
Cifas marker onto her account.
background
In late 2018 Mrs O received a five-figure sum from a third party. This triggered an internal  
review of her account. The result  was that her account was blocked. A few days later,  
although Mrs O had provided evidence of where the money had come  from Santander  told 
her that it was going to close not only that account but also her other Santander accounts. 
It gave her 14 days notice.
Mrs O brought a complaint to our Service about that. She later discovered that Santander  
had also logged a Cifas marker about her, and this had prevented  her from getting a loan 
from another bank.  She complained about that too.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that Santander had carried out a 
proper review and that it had been entitled  to close the accounts, notwithstanding the 
evidence Mrs O had provided. He told her that told that her complaint about the Cifas marker 
would be treated as a separate  complaint,  because she had not raised that matter with 
Santander.
Mrs O did not accept  that decision. She asked for an ombudsman to review this case.  She 
also said that she had complained to Santander about the Cifas marker, but Santander had 
not agreed to remove it because it was based on their decision to close her accounts.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Santander sent us is confidential,  so I cant describe  it in detail. But I can 
confirm that the decision  to record  a Cifas marker  against Mrs Os name  was made  at the 
same time as the decision  to close her accounts, and for the same reasons. I can therefore 
deal with that issue as part of this complaint;  it doesnt  need to be dealt with separately.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I can see that Santander did see the evidence Mrs O 
sent in, and took it into account. But I am satisfied that Santanders decisions to block  the 
account, and subsequently to close all of her accounts and to report  her to Cifas, were made 
rationally and in good faith.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN65141072Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 November  2020. But if we do not hear from her, then we will 
presume that she rejects it, so there is no need  to reply.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6514107