K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to send her a 
replacement credit card preventing online access and theyve also failed  to send her both 
monthly and annual statements of the account.
background
Mrs D came to us as she was unhappy  with the response from Halifax when  she 
complained. Halifax  accepted their initial final response to Mrs Ds concerns on 17 May 2018 
included incorrect information and that it didnt  outline any option to resolve the issue. Halifax  
told Mrs D the account  was still active - theyd  incorrectly said it was cancelled  before  but it 
didnt have an active card, her previous  one being marked as lost on 6 January 2017. Halifax  
said as a replacement  card hadnt  been  issued this account was removed from Mrs Ds 
online account. Halifax said to reinstate  the online access or to switch to monthly paper 
statements they would need to generate a new card and PIN and needed Mrs D to contact 
them to request this. And they credited £80 compensation to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience their earlier  incorrect information and lack of suggested  resolution  had 
caused her. But Halifax  didnt agree to refund  the interest charged on the account as Mrs D 
requested. They said all interest had been  charged in line with the terms and conditions and 
although online access was lost they had sent an annual statement each year. And Halifax  
said they had no record of this being returned  undelivered. Mrs D didnt agree and asked us 
to look at the complaint.
Our investigator thought Halifax had already responded  reasonably  to the compliant. He 
thought the £80 compensation offered  for the misinformation contained in the first final 
response letter was reasonable. The evidence he saw satisfied him that Mrs D had access 
to online  banking until 6 January 2018 and, although  she was set up for paperless online 
statements, annual statements were sent to Mrs Ds correct address every November. The 
investigator was also satisfied from viewing the statements that the interest and charges 
were applied correctly  so he was unable to hold Halifax responsible  for any charges 
incurred. So he didnt  uphold  the complaint.
Mrs D disagreed. She questioned how the adjudicator was satisfied she was getting 
statements as she was still not getting  them. She didnt think this view was a fair resolution  
of the complaint. She told us that if it was required to reinstate statements and online access  
to the account  we should pass on her request for a new card and PIN on the account to 
Halifax. This has been done and the case has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this isnt a complaint which I can properly uphold. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ds initial complaint  by email on 14 May 2018  was that Halifax had removed statements 
for this credit  card from her online banking so - as she didnt get the paper statements  - she 
had no clue how much she had to pay. She thought that was unacceptable. When  she 
brought her complaint  to this service she told us she was shocked to find in July 2018 - after 
Halifax wrote  to her increasing the payment amount - the card balance was still £3911.79. 
She said the balance wouldnt  have remained at that level if theyd sent her statements. Mrs 
D asked for paper statements  and for Halifax to refund the interest charged on the account. 
Ref: DRN69869732She also told us she thought Halifax  couldnt charge interest if they hadnt sent her any 
statements. But Im afraid  I dont agree with her analysis and Ill explain why.
Everyone accepts  Mrs D was getting  monthly statements electronically and not by post and 
that from a certain  point  her online access to those statements was stopped. But theres 
disagreement as to how long Mrs D didnt have access to this particular  account  via her 
online banking with Halifax.  Mrs D thinks its been the case for years, Halifax say its much 
later than that - at the start of 2018.  But, either  way, I dont think  that affects the outcome of 
this complaint. As soon as Mrs D became aware  of the lack of monthly statements she 
shouldve alerted the bank to correct that. But on her own evidence  she chose to go for three 
years without monthly statements. And whilst  thats  her prerogative I dont think  its 
reasonable to hold Halifax responsible for that.
Its Mrs Ds responsibility  to manage  this account within the terms and conditions  - which she 
did by regularly making that minimum payment.  During the last few years  she authorised and 
operated a direct debit  for Halifax to take the minimum monthly  repayments  each month  on 
the due date. Mrs D complains the lack of access to online  statements caused  the account  
to get into the position it has. I dont  agree.  Mrs D chose to manage the account this way - 
giving authority to her bank for a direct debit to automatically take the minimum monthly 
repayment. I think Mrs D ought  reasonably to have been aware  from previous  monthly  
statements and a number  of ad hoc letters from Halifax  the dates of which Ive listed  below 
- that there were consequences to making just the monthly minimum repayments.
Im satisfied from the records Halifax sent us that all interest and charges on the account  
have been applied in line with the terms and conditions. And that they wrote to Mrs D with 
annual statements on 13 October 2016,  15 October  2017 and 14 October 2018. So, even if it 
is the case that Mrs D hasnt had online access to statements  for a number of years, I think 
the bank have complied with their obligations to send an annual statement of the account by 
post. So I dont  think its reasonable  to ask Halifax to refund the interest as Mrs D requests.
Halifax wrote  to Mrs D on number  of occasions challenging the minimum payments she was 
making and warning of the consequences of continuing with them. Letters were sent on 1 
July 2015, 5 January 2016,  13 March  2017,  13 February and 23 August 2018. And thats 
alongside a letter sent on 5 July 2018 reviewing the account and increasing the amount of 
the minimum monthly payment from 1% of the balance to 2.5%.  Mrs D has referred  to this 
letter in in her complaint  form to this service so Im satisfied shes received it. The other 
letters and annual  statements Ive listed have  all been sent to the same address which, from 
the evidence before me, has remained constant since  at least  2016. So although I 
acknowledge Mrs D has said she didnt receive  annual statements, on balance, I am 
satisfied they were sent. I dont know why it is that Mrs D hasnt been receiving some of her 
mail, but I cannot  safely conclude thats as a result of something Halifax has done wrong.
Halifax accepts they misinformed Mrs D in their original response and cant explain why the 
card was recorded as lost when it had expired. I think their apology  and credit of £80 to Mrs 
D is a reasonable  response for this failing and I dont require them  to do anything  further.  I 
know Mrs D feels  strongly  about  what happened  - she may want  to pursue the matter further 
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to resolve her 
dispute with Halifax  informally   can do for her. Im sorry  if this disappoints Mrs D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN69869733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986973