K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt pay the claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.
background
Due to poor weather, the airline cancelled the weekend flights  Mr and Mrs G were  due to 
take to their holiday resort. They couldnt  find other  reasonably-priced flights  departing  that 
weekend, but were able to book flights leaving four days later. The airline refunded the cost 
of the cancelled flights. Mr and Mrs G used their original return flights. But as they lost four 
nights stay at their holiday resort, they made  a claim on the policy.
UKI said their claim fell within the policys delay section. It said under  delay,  unused  
expenses werent  covered, just extra costs. It said Mr and Mrs G could have booked new 
flights up to the £1,000  per person policy limit. UKI said it would consider the matter further 
should Mr and Mrs G be able to show the high cost of the new flights that were available at 
the time.  It later agreed that was an unreasonable request. 
Mr and Mrs G thought  the claim should  be dealt with under  the policys abandonment  
section. Our investigator agreed.  He thought that as Mr and Mrs G had shortened  their 
holiday and used cheap flights, theyd  mitigated  their losses.  That reduced the costs  UKI 
would otherwise have been asked to pay. UKI agreed with that, but it didnt think  it should 
have to bend the terms of the policy. And it said the refund Mr and Mrs G got would  be 
deducted from any sum it paid on the claim anyway. 
Initially, the investigator agreed  that the airlines refund was more  than the sum claimed  by 
Mr and Mrs G from UKI. But after Mrs G clarified  the issue, he said UKI should pay them  
£84.72. The cost of the unused accommodation (minus the policy  excess)  was £136.34. The 
refund from the airline for the outbound flights was £51.62 more than they had to pay for the 
new mid-week flights. So he thought it would be reasonable for UKI to pay the cost of the 
unused accommodation  minus £51.62.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think it should  be upheld.
The policys  delayed departure terms would have  allowed Mr and Mrs G to book new flights 
and incur other expenses  up to the cost of £1,000  each. They said they didnt do that  partly  
because their flights were cancelled, not delayed  and partly  because they were concerned 
about the expense.  Had they done so, it seems UKI would have reimbursed them  for the 
cost of new flights, minus  the refund from the airline  and any excess due. Buying 
reasonably-priced flights meant Mr and Mrs G couldnt travel for a few days  and that UKI 
incurred no loss, as the airline  refunded more than the full cost of the cancelled flights.
I can see why Mr and Mrs G thought they could make a claim under  the policys  
abandonment terms, as they travelled to their pre-booked destination by alternative  means.  
But that policy sub-section only allows for a refund of any extra  costs incurred for travel and 
accommodation. The extra travel  costs were already covered by the airlines refund. 
Ref: DRN60687612Mr and Mrs G didnt need to pay for extra accommodation. So I can see why UKI said they 
werent entitled to anything  under  the policy. But we take the view that sometimes  its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer not to rely solely on a policys  strict terms and conditions. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs G chose to take only a few days  of their trip, rather  than booking 
expensive weekend flights  or abandoning it entirely. By doing so they reduced  UKIs 
potential losses significantly. I think if theyd acted differently, UKI would have  been  liable for 
refunding a much higher sum than Mr and Mrs G have asked for. All they want  is the small 
amount for unused  accommodation that remains once  the policy excess  (plus  the extra sum 
from the airlines refund)  have been  deducted.  I think it would be fair and reasonable in this 
particular case for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs G the £84.72 they seek. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs G £84.72.  It should add interest  - at the simple yearly rate of 8% - from the date 
of claim to the date of settlement.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  also give them  a 
tax deduction  certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019. 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6068761