K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Gladstone Brookes are charging him success  fees when he feels he 
cancelled his agreement.
background
In July 2018, Mr A instructed Gladstone to pursue a number of mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) claims. On 23 October,  Mr A called Gladstone and asked to cancel his 
agreement. Gladstone sent a cancellation form for Mr A to sign and return. During  this 
process, a number of Mr As PPI claims were upheld  by lender L.
Gladstone invoiced  Mr A for success fees on these claims at 20% + VAT, in line with their 
terms and conditions. Mr A complained the fees shouldnt  be charged as he cancelled  the 
agreement. 
Gladstone said the claims  were  upheld before they received a signed cancellation form and 
so the fees were due. Mr A was unhappy with this so referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt uphold  it. She thought the 
cancellation form couldnt have been received  when  Lender L upheld the claims and so the 
agreement remained in place.  Due to this, she thought Gladstone were entitled to charge 
their success fee. 
Gladstone accepted this view. Mr A disagreed as he thought the verbal  cancellation should 
have been enough to end the agreement. So, he thought Gladstone should instead invoice 
him the relevant cancellation charges. He also referred  to a claim with lender S that he 
thought Gladstone hadnt progressed correctly.
As Mr A disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for the same reasons as the investigator.
Its not disputed  that Gladstone submitted the successful claims on Mr As behalf  or that Mr 
A called Gladstone to cancel the agreement on 23 October. So, Ive focused on whether I 
think Mr A successfully  cancelled before Lender L made an offer on his PPI claims and 
whether Gladstone are reasonable in charging  their success fees.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  Mr A agreed  to, which I think clearly explain that to cancel 
the agreement  outside of the cooling off period, a cancellation form needs to be completed.  
The terms direct  Mr A to complete a form online or to contact Gladstone for a hard copy. So I 
dont agree that Mr A calling Gladstone is enough to cancel the agreement.
The terms also clearly explain that if the agreement is cancelled  after an offer is made by a 
lender, the success  fees remain payable.
Ref: DRN60817782Mr A called Gladstone  and they posted a hard copy of the form on 24 October, in line with 
their terms  and conditions. Ive seen that lender L upheld a number of Mr As PPI claims the 
following day, on 25 October. 
I dont think it wouldve been  possible  for Mr A to receive the cancellation  form, sign it and 
return it to Gladstone in 24 hours. Because of this, I think  the agreement  was still in place 
when lender L upheld  Mr As PPI claims. 
As the agreement was in place, I think Gladstone have acted reasonably  when invoicing Mr 
A for their success  fees and these  remain due. They dont need to take any further action in 
relation to the complaint.  
I understand this must be frustrating to Mr A as the offers were made so close to his 
cancellation attempt  but this was out of Gladstones  control. And the claims were successful 
based on Gladstones  work, so I think charging  the success  fee is fair.
Mr A also raised concerns about  Gladstones failure  to progress another  claim with Lender 
S. Ive seen that Gladstone needed  further  information and tried to speak to Mr A about this 
on four occasions  before  he requested to cancel the agreement.  
Mr A didnt respond to these requests when Gladstone were instructed. As Mr A then 
cancelled the agreement,  I dont  think he was inconvenienced by Gladstones  inability  to 
submit a claim to Lender S as he took the decision to progress any further  claims on his 
own. So, I dont think Gladstone have acted unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Gladstone Brookes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6081778