K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
1997. Mrs R says Tesco Personal Finance Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI. And I can see from 
a copy of her credit  card application form that she signed  separately for PPI, although I 
can understand if she no longer remembers this given how long ago the sale took place.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs R about  that. Because Tesco  didnt tell Mrs R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tescos basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Rs said  including what  she said about being  self-
employed. But the policy terms didnt make it any more difficult for her to claim  as a result. 
She also said she had two jobs  one of more than 16 hours a week  and one of fewer. But, 
again, I dont think shed have lost out as a result  of that given the policy terms. So, overall, 
this doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN63950772What the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs R any extra interest she paid 
because of that. 
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs R the difference  between 
what he owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mrs R 8%* simple  interest  if 
Mrs R paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance Plc doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco Personal Finance Plc does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6395077