K821x#15complaint
Miss W is unhappy with her home  insurer Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) in 
relation to a subsidence claim she made to it.
background
In 2015 Miss W noted crack damage  to her home  a diagonal crack in the bathroom  which  
was mirrored in the external  brickwork.  L&Gs loss adjuster said it was thermal movement 
not subsidence and declined her claim.  She repaired it herself.
In 2017 Miss W noted the crack had returned. There were  more cracks too and damage to 
the garage. L&G accepted a new claim. It noted  leaking drains  and had these fixed. It carried  
out a further site visit in January 2018. It decided  the garage  needed  the ground beneath it 
stabilising. It said regarding the house,  there was no need to monitor  it or stabilise the 
ground beneath it, the cracks would just be repaired. After a few months of discussing the 
necessary garage  stabilisation works  with its expert contractor L&G gave the go-ahead to 
move on with crack repairs in the house.
In organising the schedule of repairs for the house, it was noted  that further cracks had 
appeared. L&Gs loss adjuster authorised the contractor to include them in the schedule of 
repairs. Crack repairs took place in May 2018.  Miss W reported they werent very well 
organised and produced a list of issues; including a broken and not reinstalled radiator, a 
leaking shower door, flaking paint  and further cracking.
In May 2018 L&G was also chasing its expert contractor regarding  a design  for the garage.  
In June L&G asked the crack repair contractor (which was also going to repair the garage  
following the ground being  stabilised)  to appoint  its own engineer to draw up an appropriate 
scheme. This was done and L&G approved it in July 2018.
Also in July 2018  the loss adjuster visited Miss Ws home. He considered  all of the cracks 
Miss W was concerned about. He said in his expert  opinion there was no sign of current  
subsidence movement.  He said the snagging work  could be put on hold whilst monitoring 
was done, or the work could go ahead and that would likely resolve matters as the cracks, in 
his opinion were  unlikely to reappear. The snagging repairs were  underway at that time so 
Miss W chose  to continue  with them. By mid-August Miss W reported  further  cracking. L&G 
agreed to monitor for six months which began in September 2018. It also paid Miss W £250 
for the upset it accepted shed been caused by its poor service to that point.
Following the monitoring  period L&G said the results showed  that the property was stable. 
Miss W noted further cracking. Into April 2019  L&G said despite  the monitoring results,  it 
couldnt ignore  the continued and further  cracking. It agreed that stabilising the ground, by 
the same  method as proposed for the garage, was reasonable in the circumstances. It said it 
would create  a schedule for repair of the crack  damage and remaining  snagging  issues at 
the property. But there were some  issues that L&G had already given its answer  on and that 
the parties were  in dispute about.
Our adjudicator issued  a view which considered the distress and inconvenience Miss W had 
suffered as a result  of the poor service L&G had accepted had occurred. He felt it should  pay 
a further £500 compensation  (making £750 in total). He confirmed this took into account 
everything up to the point in April 2019  when  L&G agreed to stabilise the house.  L&G 
accepted the findings.
Ref: DRN68886572Miss W felt that £750  total compensation wasnt enough. Not given everything shed been 
through; the constant chasing  shed had to do and putting off repairing/remodelling her 
conservatory which meant that work would now be more expensive.  She noted  no answer 
had been given on replacement flooring shed purchased. She was worried  about what work 
L&G would do.
Ive summarised the outstanding issues here, all of which L&G is aware of and has 
considered during the claim (as evidenced  by its file submission to this service):
Radiator  Miss W replaced the broken tap and had it re-fitted, at a cost.
Leaking shower  door  Miss W says it wasnt fitted properly and leaks, L&G says a 
rubber washer is worn.
Stair carpet  damaged by the protective layer L&Gs contractor stuck to it, replaced  by
Miss W for £285.
Kitchen lino  damaged by the contractors and replaced by Miss W for £59.90.
Bathroom damage  extensive reinstatement  work is required in this room either due to 
subsidence cracks or poor workmanship, Miss W wants to know  what L&G is intending to 
do in this room.
Cracked kitchen tiles  Miss W thinks these have been damaged by the subsidence, 
L&G disagrees.
I issued a provisional decision which made  a number of recommendations, both in terms of 
payments for L&G to make (including  increased compensation) and work for it to carry out. 
Whilst both parties generally accepted my findings,  and L&G confirmed work is already 
moving on, L&G wasnt entirely persuaded that further compensation should be paid. 
However, it said it had no real challenge in this respect to make.  There  were two items  I said 
L&G should  pay if Miss W showed me that shed incurred a cost. Miss W didnt provide any 
evidence in this respect.  Therefore, Ive removed  these awards from my decision set out 
below. The findings set out here are largely  those of my provisional decision; as the parties 
accepted them, Ive had no cause to change them and they are now my final findings, of this, 
my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  considered  everything Im minded 
to find that L&G should pay a total of £1,000  compensation (including any payments already 
made) for distress and inconvenience,  plus £100 to compensate for the cost of calls made.
2015 and 2017 damage
It isnt clear if L&G has logged these two incidents of damage as one or two claims.  From 
L&Gs file the crack  in the bathroom subject of the 2015  claim clearly  re-occurred in 2017. 
But from what Miss W has said the garage  wasnt damaged in 2015;  that with the 
re-occurring and new damage in the house happened later.  So L&Gs failure in 2015 
wouldnt have prevented  a need  for a further claim to be made in 2017  in respect of the 
garage.
I accept though that when  the damage in the bathroom re-appeared in 2017 and Miss W 
came to learn that this was related and that L&G had been wrong in 2015, that was 
Ref: DRN68886573upsetting. And if Miss W incurred a cost in repairing the bathroom crack in 2015, L&G should 
reimburse that to her, plus interest. (No proof  has been provided).
L&Gs 2017  plan for repair
L&G accepted at the outset that the garage needed  groundwork. The commentary  on its file 
shows that whilst the ground under the house was also weak,  L&G chose  not to do 
groundworks in this area.  Its loss adjusters report also shows that it chose not monitor the 
house after the drains  were repaired.
I cant fault L&G for relying on its experts opinions. However, I think those decisions clearly 
included a fair degree of risk. Especially when set in light of the decision to carry out work to 
stabilise the ground  under  the much lighter  structure  of the garage. And in this case those 
were risks that didnt pay off because the house  was still being damaged by subsidence 
related movement which L&G has now accepted.  And which it is prepared to resolve by a 
similar scheme as that proposed and accepted  as necessary for the garage in January  2017. 
Miss W lost out as a result of L&G taking those risks and Im satisfied that needs 
compensating for.
garage stabilisation  scheme
This took too long to arrange. I fully appreciate  that it was a complex proposition, and that 
some technical, and therefore  somewhat  time consuming, consideration was needed.  But 
not the six or seven months that passed here. And I especially note that when this was 
passed to the crack  contractor, for its engineer to devise a scheme,  that was done within six 
weeks. I can see that L&G chased  its expert  contractor for updates  and to provide a plan, but 
it shouldnt have let that go on for so long.  I think this should reasonably have been resolved 
by the end of March 2018.
house repairs
These were  handled badly. Whilst the house  wasnt being  stabilised, no arrangements  were 
made to resolve the crack damage  for several months whilst the garage  stabilisation scheme 
was being considered. I can understand why Miss W was frustrated at this time.  When 
repairs were done  they were done  badly. This was a further cause for upset. And Miss W 
then experienced  cracks reappearing on at least two occasions.
If L&Gs  contractor hadnt carried out poor work, that upset  would have been avoided.  If L&G 
hadnt taken risks with pursuing the crack repairs without monitoring and/or stabilising, the 
upset caused  by the re-occurrence  of cracks would have been  avoided as well.
compensation
Taking all of this into account Im minded to say that £1,000 compensation (in total to include 
anything already paid by L&G) is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that Miss W felt £750  wasnt enough  and said that, amongst other things shed 
made lots of calls. I can see that was likely  the case,  so I propose to make  L&G pay £100  to 
compensate for the cost of calls in addition to the total of £1,000  for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN68886574Im not going  to make L&G pay anything to compensate Miss W for the loss shes reported  
regarding her conservatory work. I cant see that L&G was made aware that Miss W was 
planning this work  previously. Nor have I seen evidence this was the case  or that costs have 
indeed increased.
outstanding issues
L&G is to complete a new schedule  for repair once the stabilisation  works are done. That will 
give a complete record of what is to be done at the house. But I think  some clarity on the 
disputes in hand in respect of the bathroom and kitchen is needed now.
Cracked kitchen tiles  I havent seen photos of the tiles in question.  L&G says its one tile by 
a plug socket and isnt related to the subsidence. In the absence of other evidence,  Im 
minded to accept  L&Gs view on this. I dont intend to make it include this in its schedule  of 
repairs.
Bathroom  There are signs within L&Gs file that it has, or perhaps  has historically had, 
concerns about  what work it should  now be doing/re-doing in the bathroom. But I also see 
that its senior loss adjuster feels that the peeling paint, rough plaster, bath panel and boxing 
now just need  resolving.  I agree. If the other problems Miss W has reported in the bathroom
 sharp  edge  on the windowsill  tiles, missing tile by the bath and grout missing in areas   still 
exist, I think these  need sorting too. Im satisfied that all these  issues,  along with any other 
work L&G feels  necessary, should be included in the schedule  of repair.
Regarding the leaking  shower door,  I have no way of knowing who is correct. Miss W says it 
is leaking from the bottom and that L&Gs crack  repair contractor replaced the shower door 
during its work in May 2018. The crack  repair contractor says its tried to address the leak 
twice and believes its coming from a worn  rubber washer in the hinge  area.  Im not 
persuaded the contractor would have replaced  the door in its entirety  I think  its more  likely 
it removed the existing door and refitted it once  repairs had been carried  out. So if the 
washer is worn and causing the door to leak that isnt something L&G has to fix. But I think it 
does need to investigate  this issue further.  Its new contractor could do a water test, for 
example, to better determine where the water is coming from. If its leaking as a result of how 
the door has been fitted then L&G will have  to resolve that.
I know  Miss W says the leaking  door has caused water damage. If water damaged items or 
areas need rectifying anyway as a result  of subsidence damage or poor workmanship then 
L&G will still need to sort that. But Im not going to direct  it to fix anything that is just water 
damaged as result of the leak from the shower.  Miss W knew  the door was leaking but 
continued to use the shower anyway. And she didnt seek to get the leak resolved herself,  
despite sorting other matters, like the radiator, for example.
Repaired items  There are also the three issues of repairs that Miss W had carried out 
herself; namely the radiator, the lino and the carpet.
Miss W hasnt  provided proof to show she incurred costs for buying the tap and re-installing 
the radiator. Im therefore not asking L&G to pay this.
L&G has recently  shown  us comment from its contractor denying liability for the lino. But its 
file clearly shows that previously the contractor agreed to look at resolving this issue.  It 
seemed to accept  that whilst the lino had been damaged when it arrived  at Miss Ws home  it 
had damaged it further during its work. Im satisfied  that the contractor caused it to be 
Ref: DRN68886575damaged to the point it needed replacing.  Miss W has shown a cost for £59.90  for doing that 
dated 29 September 2018. Im going  to make L&G reimburse this sum plus interest* from 
that date and until settlement is made.
Regarding the carpet, ideally Miss W would have given L&G a chance  to inspect this before 
it was replaced. But she did take photos  of it. I think these show  damage like that I might 
expect given Miss Ws report. And I note that L&G hasnt given this situation any 
consideration in this respect. Its answer  has been  that it didnt have chance  to inspect the 
carpet. L&G hasnt persuaded  me that the carpet didnt  need replacing as a result of its 
contractor not taking up the protective film when it left site, so I think  it reasonably has to 
reimburse Miss Ws cost for replacing  the carpet. I understand L&G and/or its loss adjuster 
has seen the replacement invoice for £285 (although I havent) so I think it should  pay this 
sum plus interest* from the invoice  date.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss W £1,000  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Pay Miss W £100 compensation for call costs.
Include the work  listed above  in respect  of repairs in the bathroom  in the schedule for 
repair of Miss Ws home.
Carry out further tests  on the shower door.
Repair any water damaged items  or areas that need resolving anyway as a result of 
subsidence and/or poor workmanship.
Pay Miss W £59.90  as reimbursement of her costs for replacing  the kitchen lino, plus 
interest* from 29 September 2018  until settlement is made.
Pay Miss W £285 as reimbursement of her costs  for replacing the stair carpet, plus 
interest* from the date of payment until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Legal & General
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Miss W, it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Miss W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6888657