K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  Bank  plc mis-sold him a regular  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection with a credit card.
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in March  1997. The policy  cost no 
more than 78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mr C in the event he 
wasnt working due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. Following a successful claim,  it 
would repay  10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  until the balance was 
cleared or he was able to work. The policy would also pay the outstanding  balance up to 
£10,000 in the event  of Mr Cs death. 
Bank of Scotland says the PPI finished in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale so it not only had to provide Mr C with 
enough information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for him based on his needs  and circumstances 
at the time. 
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr C he had a choice about  PPI?
Bank of Scotland has provided  a copy of Mr Cs credit card application form which  shows  a 
cross in a box by the PPI on the form indicating he has chosen to take it out, and he has 
signed the application form. Although the form is pre-printed, it wasnt unusual for a business 
to type in the form following a discussion in a branch.  
So I think it is more likely  than not Bank  of Scotland presented the policy to Mr C as optional 
and he chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr C properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr C lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland advised  Mr C with 
reasonable care and skill. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that the PPI policy was suitable  for him. 
He was eligible  for the policy and he has told us that in 1997 he was in good health, in 
employment, and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr C says he had some occupational sick pay entitlement which  would have helped  him if 
Ref: DRN61982382things went wrong.  But  the policy would have  paid out in addition to his sick pay and until he 
recovered or the balance was cleared. It would also pay out if he lost his job until he returned 
to his employment or his balance was cleared. Mr C says he had other means  to help his 
repayments but he hasnt specified  these or provided evidence to support them.  So I think 
Mr C had a need  for his cover and it would have  been useful to him if he found himself  
unable to work. It would  have meant  he didnt have  to spend any savings and would have  
helped him financially at what would be a difficult time.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  was unaffordable  for Mr C. The 
PPI transactions  and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements, and in 
the event that the costs werent acceptable to Mr C, or became unaffordable,  he couldve 
cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.  But he didnt for many years.
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland provided  Mr C with 
sufficient information  to make an informed decision  about his PPI. But as Ive decided above 
the policy was suitable for him, I think on the balance of probabilities  its unlikely that more 
information about the PPI wouldve caused him to decide not to take the PPI out. 
So overall, while I think there mayve been  some failings in the sale of the PPI, I think its 
more likely than not, that Mr C had a choice  and chose to take out the PPI policy, that it was 
suitable for him and I dont think he would have  come  to a different decision and turned 
down the PPI if Bank of Scotland had given him more information. So I dont think  Mr C lost 
out as a result of anything Bank  of Scotland did wrong when it sold him PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr C has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with his credit card, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019. 
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6198238