K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in 2007  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs F for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £1,171.48 a month  towards       
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 
£62.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a quality engineer. He has told us he was entitled to 
between six and twelve months pay if he was too unwell  to work. Mr F had some  other  type 
of insurance at the time of the sale but its recorded  that he wasnt happy  with that policy.    
Mr F has said he would receive three  months pay if he was made redundant. Mr F has said 
he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs F was employed as an HR manager. She too has told us she was entitled to between 
six and twelve months  pay if she was too unwell to work. Mrs F has said she would receive  
three months pay if she was made redundant. Mrs F hasnt told us of any other  means of 
repaying her mortgage should she be unable to work.  Mrs F has said she was in good 
health at the time of the sale.
Mrs F did tell us she did have an operation in 1996  for a bowel torsion and had six weeks  off 
from work.  She also had slipped  a disc in 2001  for which  she took non-prescription pain 
killers but hasnt told us she had any time away from work because  of it. 
I note that Mr and Mrs F took additional borrowing of £25,000 in 2012 but PPI wasnt  taken  
alongside it. Lloyds  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 
2014. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  believe  there to be no evidence to rebut  that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN61425602The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs F about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs F and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs F received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Ref: DRN61425603Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN61425604Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs F, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what extent                  
Mr and Mrs F suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs F 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds has given us the documents from the time of the sale. These include the Payment 
Protection Proposal form which is hand  written  and details the amount of the mortgage  and 
how Mr and Mrs F wanted the policy benefits to be split equally  between them.  The form is 
signed and a direct debit  mandate for the monthly payment of the PPI was completed and 
signed at the same  time. I wouldnt have expected them to have completed the Proposal 
form with the Lloyds representative or completed the direct debit mandate  if they hadnt  
wanted it. 
Ive also seen the Mortgage Loan Agreement which is signed and dated by Mr and Mrs F. 
That included a separate section entitled Insurance and a box underneath for Optional  
Insurance which gave  brief details of the Payment Protection cover and the monthly cost of 
the policy. If Mr and Mrs F hadnt  wanted  the optional insurance, I would have expected  
them to have raised this before signing the agreement.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs F knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs F cannot recall giving them advice. But Lloyds has told us it was an in-branch 
advised sale and the documents its given us from the time of the sale would agree with this. 
So, Im satisfied this was an advised sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN61425605the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs F. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Fs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs F had a need  for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means such as the policy  that Mr F already had but said he wasnt  happy with  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. The information  recorded about Mr 
and Mrs Fs circumstances  was cursory and didnt go into any great depth.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Fs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if     
Mr or Mrs F were not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy and sick pay benefits  they say they would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs F. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Fs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions 
Mrs F has told us about  her operation for a bowel torsion in 1996 and slipped disc 
for which she used non-prescription drugs  in 2001  Mrs F hasnt told us that either  
illness has caused her to seek medical advice or any further problems  since  they 
occurred (11 years and six years respectively before taking the policy) this would 
suggest they werent ongoing. And because I dont  consider  Mrs Fs conditions were  
ongoing  Im also mindful the policy would have allowed claims for these conditions  
if they didnt recur within 24 months  of the start date of the policy  I dont think  the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs F. There were  also no additional  restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
Mr and Mrs F already had mortgage protection in place but were now taking out a new 
policy, and that new policy  provided  continuous cover. This meant that subject to certain  
conditions  such as how long the existing  policy had been held or any recent claims  this 
new policy could assess a claim along the terms of the old policy if a claim would be turned 
down by the new one  a pre-existing medical condition as an example. So, and without 
knowing the terms of the previous policy, its possible that if Mr and Mrs Fs previous policy 
allowed for claims for existing conditions  (or any limitation on that policy had passed) Mrs F 
might in any event have been  able to claim for the two pre-existing medical conditions she 
has told us about  during  the first 24 months  of taking  the new policy if they recurred. 
Ref: DRN61425606 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment, it still provided useful cover  
given Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy,  (the requirement that     
Mr or Mrs F be disabled or unemployed for 60 days before they could make  a claim 
and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim), the policy still provided valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, including their employers  sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs F be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs F were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs F 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs F agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN61425607information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Fs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent did     
Mr and Mrs F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to                  
Mr and Mrs F. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs F suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs F would have  still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs F have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs F would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs F say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
Ref: DRN61425608were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs F applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs F would 
have been aware  of the cost before the policy started  it was given in the Mortgage Loan  
Agreement itself  and they paid for the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs F would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Fs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment of £3.00 for every  
£1,000 they had borrowed when  they took their mortgage.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that           
Mr and Mrs F knew about or ought to have known about before the start date of the 
policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if             
Mr and Mrs F werent continuously employed  for six months before taking the policy;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs F says she had two medical  
conditions when the PPI was taken  out, and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work within 24 months  of taking the policy because of these  conditions,  I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put them  off agreeing to it. I 
Ref: DRN61425609say this because  from what  Mrs F has told us, it seems unlikely these were ongoing 
conditions. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs F needed  to have their accident  or sickness  certified 
by a doctor.  I dont  think this is likely  to be too different to what they would have  expected to 
make a claim. 
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs F that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs F would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs F would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs F be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Fs sick pay or redundancy  
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs F were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN614256010Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs F found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs F believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs F think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2007  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs F and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN614256011my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6142560