K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained Lloyds Bank  plc wont refund  transactions  made  with her debit card 
which she didnt authorise. Shes also complained about an increase in her overdraft limit 
and a personal loan which she didnt take out.
background
Mrs O contacted Lloyds  in August 2018. Shed lost her debit  card and said all transactions  
after 15 August  werent made by her. She was also concerned about an increase  in her 
overdraft by £1,750 to £2,500 made on 4 August and then a loan application  on 18 August. 
£4,500 was paid into her current  account  on 20 August from this application.
Even though  Lloyds  knew thered  been some malware detected on Mrs Os device, they 
didnt think this explained the debit  card use.  £1,500 was withdrawn at cash  machines over 
three days but this was only permitted because Mrs Os account had an increased overdraft. 
They also noted  theyd  spoken to Mrs O during this period (when shed been unable to 
complete security to make a payment for £750).  She was obviously checking her account 
using Lloyds mobile banking service and hadnt  queried the increased  overdraft facility. The 
applications for both the overdraft and the loan used IP addresses which were consistent 
with Mrs Os normal use. They believed  Mrs O had made the transactions  and applied for 
the increased borrowing.
Mrs O brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator  felt the evidence 
showed what Lloyds  had said was most likely.  He also knew  Mrs O had admitted she 
occasionally used gambling websites so thought the transactions  she disputed  were hers.
Mrs O was concerned about having to repay the loan which  she couldnt afford. Shes asked 
an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, 
including the borrowing  applications, as well as what both Lloyds and Mrs O have told us.
I think the following  facts  are relevant to how Ive considered this complaint:
The applications for an increase to Mrs Os overdraft and loan were made on 4 and 
18 August 2018. These applications  were  made  from IP addresses consistent with 
addresses Mrs O had used.
Ref: DRN64434322The first disputed transaction didnt take place  until 18 August when £500 was 
withdrawn at a cash machine.  
Its unusual for additional  borrowing to be taken  out by an unknown third party  unless 
they can access the money in the account.  And then delay taking this out as soon as 
possible.
Mrs O says her debit  card went missing but there was limited  chance for someone to 
have known her PIN. Nor did her card seem to go missing immediately after the 
previous cash withdrawal (on 15 August).  I say this as the disputed use came later 
and youd expect  someone to use her card immediately if they had stolen it and knew 
her PIN.
In fact the increase in overdraft was applied for when Mrs O still had her debit card.
Although Mrs O told Lloyds she used one specific  phone  type, its clear she added  an 
iPhone to her online use. Mrs O accepts  she received a code from Lloyds to register  
this device.
Mrs O spoke to Lloyds  during this period  as she queried why she was unable to 
make an online payment. She says this was to her cousins husband but seemed 
unwilling to share much detail with Lloyds when they queried  this with her.
There was plenty  of opportunity  for Mrs O to have noticed the increase in the money 
available to her before  she complained  to Lloyds about  her missing  debit  card and 
disputed transactions.
Some of the disputed transactions were online gambling transactions. I can see from 
Mrs Os account statements that she did go through bouts of gambling. Just slightly 
more than two weeks  after these disputed transactions,  Mrs O used the same 
gambling website  again. She also received £1,350  into her account from the same 
company  presumably from winnings. And this is one of the reasons why its unlikely 
an unknown fraudster  would gamble  with someone  elses debit card.  Winnings are 
always paid back to the same card.
Even if Mrs O hadnt applied for the loan  which I dont actually  believe  is the case  
I would  expect her to be asked to repay  it if theres evidence  she had benefit  of the 
funds. I think the evidence shows this to be the case here.
Having considered all the evidence, I believe Mrs O both applied  for the additional  borrowing  
and used the money in her account.
I dont doubt Mrs O is concerned about  repaying the loan.  To date shes not made  any 
repayments and Lloyds have granted her breathing  space whilst her complaint has been  
with our service. However she will need  to start making repayments and covering her arrears 
to limit the damage  to her credit record.
Similarly Lloyds are obliged to consider Mrs Os current income and expenditure and make 
sure she is able to repay whats  being  asked.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Os complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  plc.
Ref: DRN64434323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6443432