K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that U K Insurance  Limited  accepted full liability  when a third party made a 
claim after a road traffic accident.
background
Ms W has car insurance with UKI.
She was involved  in an accident  in which her own car and a third partys car were  damaged.  
The third party also claimed  for injuries  she says she suffered as a result of the accident.
After investigating  the case and discussions with the third party  insurer,  UKI accepted full 
liability for the claim.
Ms W was unhappy with this outcome. She says the third partys claim for injury is 
fraudulent. She also says she wasnt at fault for the accident.
Ms W complained to UKI. They said theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy and had been fair to Ms W in the way theyd handled the claim.  So Ms W brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought UKI had done nothing wrong. Ms W disagreed  
and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Her concern is that if UKI record  this as a fault claim, her premiums will increase in future. 
She says this may effectively stop her from driving  because she may not be able to afford 
the insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ws policy includes a general  condition (on page  26 of the policy booklet) which  says:
We are entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement 
of any claim
So, according to the terms and conditions  Ms W signed up to when she bought the policy,  
its UKIs decision  whether the accept liability or contest  a claim made by a third party   
whether Ms W agrees with their decision or not.
Thats a fairly standard condition in most car insurance policies. 
So its not for us to question whether UKI are entitled to deal with the claim in the way they 
see fit. What were  interested  in is whether UKI have  acted fairly and reasonably towards  
Ms W in the way theyve  come to their decision.
UKI have  told us what they did to investigate the circumstances of the accident. They 
considered Ms Ws own evidence. They looked at what  the third party  said.  They  contacted 
Ref: DRN60670372the only witness to the accident. And they considered the proof of her losses  and injury 
provided by the third party.
According to Ms Ws own version  of events, she was parking  her car in a designated space 
and in the process pulled forward  into the traffic lane in order  to straighten  up before backing 
in again. She hit the third partys vehicle in the side with the front of her own vehicle.
The third party gives a very similar version of events.
The witness  appears  to confirm what happened. She says the third party may have been 
moving around in the traffic lane. But she hasnt given a statement. And in any case, the 
traffic lane is in a car park and UKI took the view she may have been deviating from a 
straight line to avoid other car park users or pedestrians.
Having considered all the evidence, UKI took the view that if the case went to court, it would 
be likely  to go in favour  of the third party. 
Their records show they took all the available  evidence  in to account.  And the conclusion 
they came  to doesnt seem in any way unreasonable or unfair. Their view was that the onus 
was on Ms W to look out for on-coming vehicles since she was coming out of the parking 
space into the traffic  lane.
After speaking to Ms W, UKI did propose  a 50/50 settlement to the third partys insurers. 
They were  unwilling to accept that. UKI took the view that any attempt to contest liability  
would almost certainly be unsuccessful.
UKI considered all the available evidence, contacted the witness,  carefully considered the 
likely outcome of any court hearing, took Ms Ws views into account and tried to achieve a 
50/50 settlement.  So I cant  conclude they acted in any way unfairly  or unreasonably towards  
Ms W in the way they reached their decision  to accept liability.
Id also ask Ms W to bear in mind that in accepting liability,  UKI had to pay the claim in full. It 
wasnt in their interest to accept liability in this case if there was any prospect of achieving a 
different outcome.
In terms of the injury  claim, UKI took into account  the report provided by an independent 
medical expert, which supported the third partys claims. 
In these cases, injuries often dont manifest themselves immediately. And in any case,  as 
UKI pointed  out to Ms W, it would be very difficult for them to dispute  the claim in the face of 
a supportive report from an independent  expert.
I know this will disappoint Ms W and I do have  some sympathy for her situation if increased 
premiums may make driving unaffordable for her. But I cant find any reason at all to suggest 
UKI have  acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve handled this claim.
Ref: DRN60670373my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6067037