K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the sale of an education  course he bought  using finance provided  by 
Honeycomb Finance  Limited. While some of the actions described  here were  taken by 
Mr Ms wife as hed given her authority to deal with the finance, hes represented  by a third 
party in this complaint. For ease of understanding, Ill refer to all actions as having  been 
taken by Mr M or his wife.
background
In July 2017, Mr M entered into a Fixed  Sum Loan  Agreement (the loan) with Honeycomb 
to buy a series of maths and English courses for his son. He says the courses were mis-
sold to him for several reasons. He complained to Honeycomb and said that:
The salesperson  said the course could be cancelled at any time.
He was promised  an HDMI cable which was never  received.
He was told his broadband needed  to be upgraded.  He feels  this should have 
been checked before the sale.
Secondary school  maths should have been  included in the package but wasnt.
Helplines were almost  always  busy when  Mr M, his wife or son tried to call for 
help with the course.
The course provider  said theyd speak to Mr Ms son, but they never did.
Mr M cancelled the payments to the loan as he and his son didnt receive 
the assistance they expected from the course provider.
Honeycomb looked into his complaint and sent him their final response. They  said:
The course provider  had no record of a request for a HDMI cable and its 
not something theyve  ever provided.
The loan agreement was clear  that the loan could only be cancelled  within  the first 
14 days. Mr M had signed and initialled  the agreement in several places to confirm  
his understanding.
The course  provider  makes it clear that the courses are online only, and it is for 
the consumers to make sure they have a broadband connection sufficient  to 
support the software.
What is covered in the course modules is made  clear on the order form. They  
say Mr Ms wife also enquired  about the academic level the programmes 
covered and was told they went up to the end of primary school.
The times within which the helpline is available are contained in the order form, 
and there is also an ask a question function in the programme which is 
answered by a fully qualified  teacher as soon as possible and can be used 
outside the helpline hours.
The course provider  spoke to Mr Ms son twice  - in February and March 2018.
The course provider  spoke to Mr Ms family soon after the course started and Mr 
M said the course was being  used, enjoyed  and feedback was being received.
Honeycomb didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. They said Mr M was fully aware of the terms 
of the loan agreement and that the course  provider had made  the features of the course 
clear at the outset.
Mr M didnt  agree and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He said that the supplier (the course  provider) acted as a credit broker, so 
Ref: DRN67412572section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 56), makes  the finance  provider 
(Honeycomb) responsible for the course providers actions in arranging  the finance.
Our investigator noted that the supplier visited Mr M twice. On the first occasion, Mr M 
decided the package was too expensive. Later,  they decided they would like to buy the 
courses, so the supplier  visited again.  Mr M says they were assured they could cancel at 
any time, so they went ahead with it. Our investigator felt that as Mr M initially  decided not 
to sign up due to the cost,  it was likely  that the flexibility of being able to cancel at any time 
was important in his decision to go ahead. He said he felt it unlikely Mr M would have  
entered into the contract had he been provided  with enough information  to make an 
informed decision on whether to enter into a four-year contract.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and said Honeycomb should cancel the loan 
with nothing further to pay, remove the loan from his credit file and refund any payments 
made plus 8% simple interest.
Mr M accepted our investigators  opinion. Honeycomb didnt agree with the investigators  
conclusion that Mr M wasnt aware he was entering into a four-year agreement.  They said 
(in summary):
Mr M had signed the documents and had the opportunity read and understand
them.
He had 14 days to cancel the agreement  if he was unhappy  with it.
Mr M had been in contact with the supplier  after six months or so of the course 
to ask if there was a secondary  school maths programme and whether they 
could buy more  in future.
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I didnt agree with the findings of our 
investigator and issued a provisional  decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, section 56 has the effect  of making the course provider the agent of 
Honeycomb during  the antecedent negotiations  leading up to Mr M entering into the loan 
agreement. In broad terms this means Honeycomb  can be held responsible for the things 
the course provider  did or didnt do or say during the sales  process.
Section 75 of the same Act says that in some circumstances the borrower  under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against  the credit provider if theres  either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. One of the circumstances 
for such a claim to be valid is that there  must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. 
The formal  wording for a DCS agreement is set out in section 12 of the CCA. In summary  it 
says there  needs  to be a three-party agreement between a debtor, a creditor  and a supplier. 
In this complaint  Mr M is the debtor, Honeycomb  are the creditor and the course provider 
were the supplier, so Im satisfied there  were the required relationships here.
Ref: DRN67412573Its important to note that in order for a misrepresentation to lead me to uphold a complaint, 
Id need to believe that the consumer was told something that wasnt  true and that induced 
them into entering  a contract they wouldnt have if theyd been correctly  informed.  In other  
words, I have  to consider  if Mr M was told something by the course provider that wasnt  true 
and hed not have bought the courses  if that hadnt  been said.
So Ive looked  at each of the points hes raised  to see if theres  been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by the supplier (the course  provider), but ultimately my decision is based  
on whether Honeycomb  have treated  him fairly when considering his claim against them.
The salesperson  said the course could be cancelled at any time
Ive read the customer clarification and satisfaction  form  Mr M completed at the time of the 
sale. Hes signed the form and initialled several  statements  designed by the course provider 
to confirm consumers  understand,  agree to and are able to confirm the following points: 
They include:
Youve chosen  to pay for your Lifetime  Licence  from [the provider] by way of cash / 
finance. [neither  cash nor finance have been  circled, highlighted or deleted]
Youre aware that [the course provider]  gives you 14 days to cancel starting from the 
date of saleif youre using finance,  the company  providing the finance  will provide  
you with a withdrawal  period  of 14 days
You understand that youre purchasing a Lifetime Licence and that there  are no trial 
periods.
I cant say for sure what  was said at the meeting with the sales  representative,  so while  I 
have regard for what Mr M says about  the conversation, where theres  a dispute about what 
was said, I have to consider the paperwork provided. I think  its clear from the statements 
initialled by Mr M that there  is a limited window of 14 days from the point of sale in which the 
course can be cancelled  and that there is no trial period. I think the paperwork is clear  
enough to show  there  was no option  to cancel the course outside the 14-day cancellation 
period given if finance is being used. So Ive thought about how clear it was made that Mr M 
was using finance to pay for the course. 
Since our investigator looked into the complaint, weve  been  provided with some  call 
recordings, including one from 2 August 2017   inside  the 14-day period during  which  the 
loan could be cancelled.  Its important for my consideration of whether Mr M knew  he was 
taking a loan,  so Ill set out some detail from the call first, and then what  this means for my 
decision. The call is between Honeycomb  and Mr Ms wife though Mr M is also involved in it.
At the beginning  of the call, Mr Ms wife asks what would happen if Mr M were to lose his job 
at some point in the future - she suggested  three years  time  could they cancel the loan?  
The advisor said, not three years in, no. He asked if Mr M was likely to lose his job soon, 
but was told said no, I was just asking. The advisor  said if Mr M were  to lose his job, they 
should call Honeycomb  to see what can be offered at that time in regard to the payment 
amount and come to an arrangement depending  on the circumstances at the time.
Mr Ms wife went  through a range of possible problems  that could occur such  as house  
move, loss of job, splitting  up and asked what could happen then?. The advisor said the 
loan would have  to be paid to which she replied  yes. The advisor  said he couldnt  give 
Ref: DRN67412574precise answers to her questions until that happens,  but if the payments are kept up to date, 
there was nothing to worry about.
Mr Ms wife said she was having internet problems at the moment  and asked how long are 
we in this contract  for  four years?.  She said she just wants  to know for [her] sons future. 
After clearing security with Mr M and gaining authority to speak with his wife, the advisor 
confirmed the contract  was for 48 months, which is 4 years. She replied alright, thank  you 
very muchI thought  it was for six years. Then will you write  to me when its about to 
finish?. The advisor says We will indeed.  Well  send  a letter to Mr M to confirm once the 
loan is finished.
Mr Ms wife said Thank you. We never took a loan out before  I dont know how they work. 
The advisor who came in didnt tell me that wed be getting a loan letter so I got a bit nervous 
is all because theres so much can happen  in four yearsBut I want to keep it for my child 
because it will benefit him..
In her statement of complaint dated  11 July 2018,  Mr Ms wife says the course  provider told 
them it could be cancelled at any time  and suggested they just give it one or two 
months. She also says they werent  told they were taking a loan which is supported by 
what she said in her conversation with Honeycomb.
So I think it initially came  as a surprise to Mr M that he was taking  a loan. And I am aware  
that the training provider offered other methods  of financing their courses including a pay as 
you go (PAYG)  option. This enabled  its customers to access  the course  with a monthly 
subscription and allowed  them  to cancel it if they wished  with nothing further to pay.
Given what they say they were told by the advisor,  I think the ability  to cancel if needed  
would have been important to them. Having read Mr Ms statement and listened to the 
conversation, I think its quite plausible that the agent didnt properly explain they were taking 
a loan to pay for the course. It seems likely to me they may have agreed to enter the 
arrangement on the initial  understanding that they could cancel at any time.
I think that if the difference between the PAYG option and the loan had been properly 
explained to Mr M, hed have been  unlikely to take the loan. I say this because Mr M initially  
decided the course  was too expensive, and he says he only agreed to sign up to the course 
in a second meeting after the representative assured them the course  could be cancelled at 
any time and suggested  they just give it one or two months.
It follows that I think there was an untrue statement made regarding  the financing  of the 
course. I think  its likely  he was led to believe he was buying the courses on a PAYG  basis.  
But I think the conversation Mr Ms wife had with Honeycomb a few days  later made it very 
clear they were in fact entering a loan agreement.  She acknowledged theyd received a loan 
letter and asked how long it was for. She spoke  about what would happen should their 
circumstances change. The advisor was very clear  that payments needed to be kept up to 
date over the four years.
So after that conversation, I think it was clear  to Mr M and his wife they were entering into a 
loan agreement for which they needed  to make  48 monthly payments  and that it couldnt be 
cancelled later on. While the advisor may perhaps  have pointed  out it could  be cancelled at 
the time of the call, Mr Ms wife was adamant that the agreement  was needed and wanted. I 
wouldnt have expected the Honeycomb  advisor  to have  been  aware  of alternative methods 
of financing the course (such as PAYG) so I dont think Mr M would have cancelled  the loan 
Ref: DRN67412575at that stage even  if it had been suggested. I say this because  his wife was adamant  that the 
courses would  be of benefit  to their son.
While I think there was an untrue  statement during the sales process,  once the correct 
information was given, Mr M continued with the agreement. I cant say therefore  that the 
untrue statement induced him into proceeding with the loan and course.
HDMI cable
Mr M says he was promised an HDMI cable which was never  received.  Im not persuaded 
the provision of an HDMI would have persuaded Mr M to enter the contract. I say this after 
reading a statement signed by him and his wife on 11 July 2018 when he raised his 
complaint, and listening to his wifes conversation with Honeycomb. In the statement Mr M 
says he was concerned  that his son was getting further and further  behind  at school. In the 
conversation Ive outlined above,  Mr Ms wife said they were very keen to buy the courses  as 
they felt they would benefit their son now and in the future.
An HDMI cable can be purchased widely and relatively cheaply. I dont think  its likely that 
the provision of one will have greatly induced Mr M into buying the courses.  It seems  likely 
he wouldve entered into the contract regardless of whether  this was offered. Ive seen no 
evidence that the provision of an HDMI cable formed part of the contract Mr M had with the 
supplier, so I cant reasonably say that the contract was breached.
Broadband issues
Mr M says he was told his broadband needed  to be upgraded.  He feels  this should have 
been checked before the sale.
Its clear that the courses purchased are online,  so it would have been evident that a stable 
connection would have been required. During the call Mr Ms wife had with Honeycomb as 
referenced above,  she does say theyre having  trouble  with their broadband,  but she doesnt 
mention that the course provider told her she must upgrade it. If that had been the case, Id 
have expected shed have  said so. The course  provider have said that problems with the 
broadband connection had not been raised  with them  at any stage over the year or so 
between the purchase and the complaint.
I think its unlikely that the course  provider would have told Mr M he must upgrade his 
connection, although I would imagine it would  have been made clear that a strong 
connection was necessary.  Given  how keen  Mr M and his wife were  for their son to receive 
the benefit of the course, I think its likely theyd have considered ensuring such  a connection 
was available  for him to do so.
Level of maths  tuition available
Mr M says that secondary school  maths should  have been  included in the package  he 
bought but wasnt. The order form completed when Mr M bought the courses clearly shows  
he bought maths modules  2.3-2.6 (from  a range of 1  5.2) and literacy modules 2.4-4.0 
(from a range of 1.1-4.0).
The course provider  has previously explained  to us that the module numbers relate  to the 
key stages of the national  curriculum.  So those modules that begin  with a 2, relate  to key 
stage 2 and so on. Key stage 2 is covered in primary  school, key stages 3 and 4 are covered 
Ref: DRN67412576in secondary.  The order form clearly  sets out the levels available and which  were  selected. I 
think its clear  Mr M didnt  buy secondary school level maths, but he did for literacy.
The helplines were busy. The course provider  didnt speak with Mr Ms son
Mr M says helplines were almost always busy when he, his wife or son tried to call for help 
with the course.  In any event, he said his son was often unavailable when the helplines were 
open and the course  provider said theyd speak to him, but they never did.
The customer agreement and order form Mr M signed, says the Freephone Teacher 
helplineis available 52 weeks per year from Monday to Friday between  4pm and 7pm 
(including some Bank holidays) and Saturday  between 10am  and 1pm.  As these opening  
hours were clearly listed on the documents Mr M signed, I dont think  I can say they were  
misrepresented to him either prior to or at the point of sale.
Ive gone on to consider whether I think theres been a breach of contract by the supplier 
under section 75, and note that Mr M said the course provider didnt speak to his son as 
promised. But they have said they did  on 9 February and 1 March 2018.  They  also said Mr 
Ms son was able to ask a question at any time via the student  account on the platform  which  
would then be answered by a teacher.
Mr M would have known  the opening  hours  of the helplines when he signed  up for the 
course and he would have been best placed to decide if his son would be available within  
those hours.  From what hes said, Mr Ms son would have been available  6-7pm  weekdays 
and Saturday  mornings. While lines may well have been busy  at these times, Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that the lines were not open  as promised.  I dont  think  there has been a 
breach of contract that would  give rise to a claim against Honeycomb.
Cancellation of payments due to a lack of support provided
Mr M says he cancelled  the payments to the loan as he and his son didnt receive the 
assistance they expected  from the course provider. But Mr M was aware that he had 
financed the course  using  a loan, and it was made clear to his wife during  her conversation  
with Honeycomb on 2 August 2017, that the loan needed to be paid every month.
Mr M has not provided any evidence of a lack of support,  and the course provider have  said 
they have offered the service theyre  contracted for. Theyve said theyre keen to help Mr Ms 
son with the programme purchased and have encouraged him to get in touch. As Ive 
mentioned above,  the support available to Mr M and his son was set out in the paperwork.
Ive seen nothing  which leads me to think that what was agreed under the contract  wasnt 
made available them, so I cant see theres been a breach  of contract by Honeycomb or the 
course provider.
Summary of my findings
There are lots of elements  to this case, some of which  I agree with, others  which I dont. But 
I do have some misgivings about  the way the loan agreement was sold.
I have every sympathy for Mr M and the situation  he now finds  himself in due to likely being 
misled by the course provider as to his cancellation rights. But Mr M was given the correct  
information about his right to cancel soon after entering into the contract and he didnt 
express any dissatisfaction  about that. He was happy to continue with the loan and I 
Ref: DRN67412577therefore dont  think any misleading information  he might  have  been  given has caused him 
any detriment. For this reason, I dont  think Honeycomb have acted unreasonably in their 
consideration of Mr Ms complaint against them.
If Mr M now finds himself  in financial difficulty as a result of this agreement,  Id encourage  
him to talk to Honeycomb about it. And Id remind Honeycomb of their obligations to treat 
customers in financial difficulty fairly.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained, subject those involved,  I dont  intend to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
While I understand my provisional decision came as a disappointment to Mr M, neither he 
nor Honeycomb had anything to add to it. That being the case, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6741257