K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds actions in connection with 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Another driver made  a claim against  Mr Hs policy. Mr H told Admiral he hadn't been  in an 
accident. It sent an engineer to inspect the vehicles. The engineer  said that the damage 
claimed by the other driver wasn't  consistent  with an impact with Mr Hs van. When  Mr Hs 
policy was due to renew  his premium had increased  because Admiral hadn't  closed the 
other drivers  claim. Mr H brought his complaint about that to us.
I issued an initial provisional decision on 16 August  2019. At that time Admiral hadn't 
provided us with a response to our adjudicators view upholding the complaint. It also hadn't  
replied to a request for an update on its progress with the claim.  And I issued a provisional 
decision upholding the complaint on the basis that the claim was still open.
Admiral then provided further information.  It explained that it had closed the claim in 
April 2019 and had refunded Mr H £139  to Mr H, which was the amount Mr Hs premium had 
increased by because the claim hadn't been  settled before  his policy  renewed.  
Mr H also provided further  information.  He explained  how he felt that the delay in settling the 
claim had affected him and his sons.
I addressed Admirals and Mr Hs recent points in a second provisional decision.  For ease  
I've copied  those provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, it remains likely that Ill 
uphold it. 
Admiral sent me copies  of the responses  it said it had sent to our adjudicator. But I note that 
it had misspelt the adjudicators name  in the email  address it sent those  responses  to. And 
we don't have  a staff member of the misspelled name Admiral had sent its replies to. So we 
wouldn't have  ever received those.  And I would  find it surprising if Admiral didn't receive 
notification that the emails  couldn't be delivered,  as happens with most email systems  when 
a message is undeliverable.
As I said in my initial  provisional  decision, its usual for insurance companies to treat an 
unsettled claim as a fault claim until its closed down. And even where these matters are well 
handled they can often take months  to sort out. So I dont find it unusual that Admiral hadn't 
managed to close the claim before  Mr Hs policy renewed. But I was pleased to hear that 
Admiral had now closed  the claim down and removed it from Mr Hs insurance history.  
I note that this took around 13 months. That seems far too long for what seemed  a very 
straightforward matter. The evidence was clear that Mr H wasn't  involved in the incident.  But 
Admiral didn't pursue this quickly or with vigour.  For example - from the file - I can't see any 
evidence that it sent its engineering evidence to the other drivers insurer for some months 
after receiving that, or that it chased  a response to that promptly. 
Ref: DRN60901732Similarly, the other driver  provided details  of a completely different car to the vehicle Admiral 
insured Mr H for. But I can't see that Admiral followed that discrepancy up robustly. So I 
think, in the specific circumstances  of this case,  it should have marked  the claim as non-fault  
far sooner. It follows that I think Admiral should  have been  in a position  to pay the refund 
sooner. But its difficult  to be precise  as to exactly what  date that should be. And in those 
circumstances, rather than specifying  a calculation of simple interest at 8% (which  would 
most likely deliver a figure of less than £10),  I've decided to incorporate that within  a 
compensation award as discussed  below.
Mr H said that he believes that the open claim affected his premium when he changed the 
car on the policy mid-term. This isn't something hes complained about previously so isn't a 
matter that we've  investigated. But it would be very unusual for a claim such  as this to affect 
a policy  mid-term. However,  if Mr H wishes  to pursue that matter he might wish to consider 
making a further  complaint to Admiral.
Mr H said that the claim has affected  both his sons.  Ill say at the outset that it wouldn't  be 
appropriate for me to comment on another consumers policy  without explicit authorisation to 
do so. And Mr H and his first son might  wish to consider making  a joint complaint to Admiral 
if they think that hes been affected by Admirals  actions.  But as I've indicated above  at the 
point that Mr Hs policy renewed Admiral were  still defending a claim. And at that time it still 
wasn't clear that this was a matter of mistaken  identity. So its unlikely I could fairly say that 
at the point Mr H renewed his own policy  it was unfair for Admiral to charge the additional 
premium. And if Mr Hs sons policy renewed at the same time its possible wed come to the 
same conclusion.
Similarly, I understand Mr H feels that his second  son was forced into buying a motorcycle 
because he couldn't afford to insure a car. But Mr Hs second son isn't Admirals  customer.  
So under our rules  its unlikely Id be able to consider  any complaint about how Admirals 
actions had affected him. But even if I could I think there are numerous factors  that go into a 
decision to buy a motorcycle. And the price of insurance for a car, which  might  be slightly  
reduced by having  a named driver on it, is unlikely to be the most  crucial of those. And there 
are usually alternative means of transport available outside of a straight choice  between  cars 
and motorcycles. So if I could look at this its likely Id conclude that its too great a leap to 
decide that Admiral's actions forced Mr Hs second son into buying a motorcycle  rather than 
insuring a car. But I don't think this is something I can look at so Im not going  to comment  
further. 
Mr H said that he didn't receive the benefit of his NCD protection.  But NCD protection only 
protects the discount  an insurer  may apply when  calculating a premium.  It doesn't mean that 
the premium won't ever be affected by a change in rating such as when theres been a claim 
against the policy. So I haven't seen any evidence beyond Mr Hs comments that he didn't 
have the benefit of his NCD protection.
Mr H also said that Admiral  actually paid the refund to his son rather  than himself. Admiral  
has explained that, in line with its policy terms, it pays  any refunds due to the card details it 
holds on the policy.  And as the details it held were for Mr Hs sons card,  it paid the refund to 
that card. So I think it acted in line with the policy  terms when paying the refund. Ive seen 
the email it sent to Mr Hs son saying  it would pay the refund, but it wasn't clear that it was 
actually in respect of the claim Mr H was involved in, rather than something directly involving 
his son. So I do think it could have worded this better. But if Mr Hs son wasn't sure what  the 
refund referred  to he could have asked Admiral  for an explanation.  So I do think Admiral 
acted in line with its policy when providing the refund.
Ref: DRN60901733That said,  on reviewing this case,  I now think that Admiral caused Mr H unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience as set out above.  So to address that I think it should  pay him 
£100 compensation. That figure includes any interest Mr H might  have been due on his 
premium refund and is in addition to any compensation paid before Mr H brought  his 
complaint to us.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Admiral nor Mr H raised  any objection  to the findings  in my second provisional 
decision I see no reason  to change them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my second  provisional decision I uphold this complaint. 
I require Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay Mr H £100 compensation to address 
the distress and inconvenience  it caused  to him. It should pay the compensation within  28 
days of us telling it that Mr H has accepted my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must 
also add interest to the compensation from the date of my final decision  to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6090173