K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  service and that it hasnt paid the costs  he 
incurred under his travel  insurance policy. My references  to AXA include its agents.
background
Mr M has travel insurance through his bank  account.  The insurer is AXA.  While Mr M was on 
holiday unfortunately he had an accident and injured his back  and wrist. He contacted AXA 
soon after.
Mr M complains about:
arrangements AXA made  to transfer  him to another hospital  abroad.  He says AXA 
changed its mind about  which  hospital  to transfer him to and the transfer was 
unnecessary and caused him additional  suffering.  He says he had no choice but to 
agree otherwise  AXA said it wouldnt  cover  him
AXAs lack of communication while he was in the second hospital and following his 
discharge from hospital. He says he felt abandoned and had to make all his own hotel, 
travel and medical care arrangements
the expenses he incurred which AXA hadnt  paid.
AXA accepted some of its communication was poor.  It offered Mr M £200 compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience. AXA said it had arranged the hospital transfer so Mr M could 
have necessary tests  to decide appropriate treatment.  AXA also said it wasnt responsible  
for the route  the ambulance took.  It told Mr M to make a claim for the expenses he wanted  
AXA to pay.
Mr M complained to us. He said £200 compensation wasnt enough. He wants compensation 
for his additional suffering he says was due to the hospital transfer journey and for AXA to 
pay his claim.
Our investigator said AXAs £200  compensation offer was fair and Mr M needed to make  a 
claim so AXA could  assess  his expenses.
Mr M disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision
Before I made a decision I asked AXA and Mr M to provide me with more information about  
what happened around the hospital transfer, communication and Mr Ms claim. I referred  to 
the responses in my provisional findings  below.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to partly uphold  this complaint. 
I thought AXA did give some poor service but its £200 compensation offer was fair. I needed  
some further  information from both parties to see if any dispute  remained about Mr Ms 
claim. I said:
hospital transfer arrangements
The policy says that if Mr M is injured AXA may move  him from one hospital to another and 
will do so if it and the treating doctor think its safe for him to be moved.  The policy  also says 
if Mr M chose not be transferred insurance cover  would end on the date AXA thought  he 
could safely transfer.  Such terms are usual for travel insurance policies.
Ref: DRN64877972From AXAs medical teams notes its clear  that AXA was concerned about the very limited 
information in the medical  report for Mr M from the first hospital (which Ill refer to as A). 
I think AXA reasonably  wanted Mr M to be transferred to a better hospital to have an MRI 
scan and proper diagnosis to ensure he got the correct  treatment.  Ive seen mention in 
emails at the time that the doctor  at A disagreed with a transfer  but Ive seen  no direct 
evidence of that or why the doctor disagreed.
Even if the doctor  at A disagreed, AXAs medical  team had understandable significant concerns 
about the lack of information from A about  Mr Ms diagnosis and treatment which it needed.  
I think AXA made a reasonable decision to transfer Mr M even if a doctor at A did disagree.
AXA initially  thought transferring Mr M to a hospital which Ill refer to as B would be best. But 
when Mr M told AXA of his concerns about  travelling with his injuries AXA thought it was 
safer to transfer  him to a nearer hospital,  which  Ill refer to as C. AXAs notes at the time 
show it made the decision as it was told there  was no MRI scanner at B and also the 
weather conditions meant the steep route to B would have been difficult for an ambulance.
I understand why Mr M was concerned when he got a message from AXA about the change 
of hospital transfer plan.  But on the evidence AXAs change of plan was reasonable and 
made with Mr Ms best medical interests  in mind. And AXA responded by return to Mr Ms 
email saying he was confused about the change  to explain  the reasons for the change.
Mr M said the transfer ambulance took him on bumpy roads and the ambulance  staff told 
him they were using  those roads  instead of the motorway as your insurance  company did 
not pay for the toll tax. AXA said when an ambulance is arranged it gets sent the invoice for 
the cost and it wouldnt deduct  anything.
Theres no evidence to support what the ambulance crew told Mr M about AXA not paying  
the toll tax. I accept  AXAs  statement that it wouldnt have  deducted  the charge.
Im sorry  Mr M had an uncomfortable journey on his hospital transfer.  But theres no evidence  
to support that AXA is responsible for the ambulance taking a less comfortable  route.
Mr M also said that following the journey he had additional back  pain. Ive seen no medical 
evidence to support  that he had additional problems  and the cause. But even if there  was 
such evidence theres no basis  for me to say AXA should pay Mr M compensation.  Ive 
explained above why I think AXA made a reasonable  decision to transfer him and it wasnt  
responsible for the route the ambulance took.
For the reasons  above AXA doesnt need to pay Mr M any compensation in respect of the 
hospital transfer.
communication
Mr M said once  he was in C AXA abandoned  him, it ignored his emails and on his 
discharge he had to make arrangements for a hotel, a new flight  home  and medical care. 
AXAs notes  say he was travelling alone.
From the additional information the parties gave I can see it was difficult for Mr M and AXA 
to get a good phone connection and they relied  on email most of the time.  Generally AXAs  
communication with Mr M was reasonable. But AXA accepts  there  was a four days lapse in 
communication while he was in C.
Ref: DRN64877973When AXA and Mr M spoke on the 20 June he told AXA it was likely hed be fit to fly in the 
next two days and wanted to discuss arrangements  to get home. AXA then mailed Mr M with 
general requirements he needed, for example a business class seat and the following day 
with more specific details  about travel. Mr M took the flight home very soon after.
We asked Mr M whether AXA made the arrangements for him to fly home  and hes confirm it 
had. So the evidence is that AXA did help him with his travel.
Ive no evidence that AXA didnt help Mr M with his medical care, as he suggests.
However, on 22 June  Mr M tells AXA that hed left hospital and was in a hotel. I cant  see 
that Mr M contacted AXA to say hed been discharged and needed help finding  
accommodation. But AXA did know he was due to be discharged  in a couple of days so it 
could have been more proactive in contacting Mr M.
I think there was a lack of communication by AXA while Mr M was in C and that led to him 
having to arrange his own hotel  on discharge  from hospital. That would have been stressful  
and inconvenient for Mr M. But I think AXAs  offer of £200 was fair compensation.
claim
AXA told Mr M to make  a claim for his expenses. AXAs now told us Mr M did make a claim 
and it paid him £1,250.65 and £170.61.
Its not clear to me if there are expenses that Mr M thinks  still havent been paid.
In response to my provisional decision AXA should provide a list of the expenses  its paid, 
any deductions made and why. Our investigator  will send the information to Mr M and he 
should tell me whether he thinks some of his claims remain unpaid.  Ill then decide the best 
course of action about that matter which may be Mr M will need to make  a separate 
complaint about  his disputed claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
AXA accepted my provisional decision  and said it had paid Mr M the £200 compensation in 
September 2018. It sent details of the payments it had made under its claim settlements.
We sent the claim payment details to Mr M for his comments. He said he didnt think my 
decision was fair and he didnt want to provide any further evidence  or comments.  We told 
Mr M that if he had no further comments Id make my final decision on the information 
available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr M doesnt think my provisional decision is fair. But Ive explained above in my 
provisional findings why I think AXAs compensation offer,  which its paid, was fair and 
reasonable and it doesnt  need to pay Mr M any compensation in respect  of the hospital  
transfer. Ive no reason  to change my mind.
Ref: DRN64877974As to the claim, AXA provided a list of the expenses its paid. As Mr M doesnt want  to 
provide further  comment I dont  know if there  are expenses that Mr M thinks  still havent been 
paid. Im not going  to make a decision on that particular matter without his comments.  If there 
are payments in dispute Mr M will need  to make  a separate complaint about that matter.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr M £200 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience, as its now done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6487797