K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about MBNA Limited  (MBNA) and it changing his statement format.  He 
says it caused  him to miss a payment and MBNA has then reported a late payment on his 
credit file. He wants MBNA  to remove the marker  from his credit file and pay him 
compensation for his distress. 
background
In 2010 Mr G applied  for a credit card. His application was approved and his card was 
supplied to him by MBNA. 
Mr G received paper statements and consistently cleared his balance  in full each month
In July 2018, his original  credit card account was closed and replaced  with a different 
account provided by MBNA. 
Mr G received his card and activated  it online in early August 2018.  Mr G then began  using  
his credit card. 
In September  2018, MBNA  sent Mr G an email alerting him to his statement  being ready.  It 
sent a further  email  in early October  2018 advising that his payment would soon be due. 
Mr G did not make payment by his due date in October and his balance  was carried forward.  
MBNA applied interest to his account  and reported  his late payment to credit reference 
agencies. 
Mr G made  payment on his October statement and contacted MBNA. He complained that he 
had not received his statements and he had not elected electronic  statements. He asked that 
the late payment  marker be removed from his credit  file. 
MBNA sent him its final response in November 2018. This said that the complaint had been 
resolved. 
Mr G was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint and has set out her view to the 
parties. This was that the business had demonstrated that it had given Mr G notice of his 
statement being available,  and that it had not done  anything  wrong.  She therefore did not 
recommend that MBNA do anything further.  
Mr G was not satisfied by that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I very much sympathise with Mr G and it is clear that this matter has caused him distress. He 
has demonstrated that he consistently makes  full repayment of his credit  card and is 
concerned to maintain his good  credit rating. 
Ref: DRN63527832I do not doubt that had Mr G been aware  of his statement  that he would have met his 
September payment.
That said,  I have to assess the evidence of what MBNA did provide, and whether  the have 
done anything  wrong. Only if I conclude that MBNA did do something wrong can I direct 
them to take corrective  action. 
MBNA has provided evidence that when Mr G activated his credit  card he was asked if he 
wanted electronic  statement and that Mr G elected to receive these, rather  than continuing to 
receive paper statements. 
It has also provided evidence that it sent email reminders of his September payment being  
due and that these were  delivered. 
As set out above, I accept that Mr G did not see these, but I cannot say that they were  not 
sent. I appreciate  that Mr G has now updated  his preferences to receive  paper statements 
and continues to meet his payments, but at the time it appears he had agreed  to receive 
statements electronically. 
As a result, I cannot say that MBNA failed to provide Mr G with his statements, and Mr G did 
miss a payment, so I cannot require MBNA to remove the marker, which  is factually accurate 
information. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr G, but I cannot uphold  Mr Gs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I am unable to uphold Mr Gs complaint, and do not ask 
MBNA limited to do anything further.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6352783