K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to close  his account. Hes 
also unhappy they transferred his debt to a debt collection agency on the closure  of the 
account. And Mr B feels Nat West discriminated against him due to his race.
background
Mr B held a current account, with an overdraft facility, with Nat West. 
Following an internal review, Nat West decided to end the banking relationship with Mr B. 
They gave him 60 days notice of their intention to close by sending a letter  to his home 
address. The letter  explained that any outstanding  debt would need to be repaid by the end 
of the 60 days   and if it wasnt, the bank would follow its normal  debt recovery procedures.
After the 60 days,  Nat West  closed the account  but Mr B had an outstanding debt on his 
overdraft. Nat West transferred the debt to a debt collection  agency and reported to the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr B complained  he said he would  have repaid the debt if Nat West sent him a statement  
confirming how much hed need to pay. And because they didnt contact him about making 
the payment,  he feels he has been discriminated against.
The investigator who looked into Mr Bs complaint didnt think  Nat West had acted 
unreasonably. He said the closure  letter confirms any outstanding debt would need to be 
paid and therefore Mr B should have been  aware, without a statement. So he didnt think  
Nat West needed  to do anything.
Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr B, so Ive explained  
further below.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before Nat West closes an account, they must do so in a way, 
which complies with the terms  and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account say that Nat West can close  the account  by giving 
Mr B 60 days notice.  And they did this. 
Under the terms and conditions  Nat West doesnt  have to give a reason  for closing an 
account  in the same way a Mr B wouldnt have to. So I cant say Nat West has done 
anything wrong  by closing the account.
repayment of debt
Ref: DRN61377942Ive seen the closure letter Nat West sent to Mr B. And Im satisfied it makes it clear  any 
outstanding debt will need to be repaid before the 60 days.
I appreciate Nat West didnt send  Mr B a separate statement  confirming the total amount. 
But having  reviewed the account  activity, Mr B was still using his account.  So I think its 
reasonable to suggest Mr B was aware  of the debt on the account  and that he needed to 
repay it.
I appreciate that Mr B thinks Nat West discriminated against him when they transferred the 
debt to a debt collection agency. I dont  underestimate his strength of feeling  about this 
matter, but I find nothing to indicate  that this was the reason why. The debt was transferred 
because it hadnt  been repaid  and thats in line with Nat Wests normal  debt recovery 
procedures.
overall
In summary,  I know my decision will come as a great  frustration and disappointment to 
Mr B. But having looked  at whats  happened here I dont think Nat West treated Mr B unfairly 
when making the decision  to close the account,  or when transferring the debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137794