K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) didnt challenge the third
partys costs so are chasing  her for her excess premium unfairly.
All references to Calpe include the agents it appointed to handle  the claim.
background
Mrs M took out a motor  insurance policy, underwritten by Calpe, in May 2017. Unfortunately,
Mrs M was involved in a car accident in July 2017. Calpe instructed investigators to take a
statement from Mrs M about  the accident  circumstances  and, following this in August 2017,
accepted liability.  The liability  is not disputed.
Following investigations,  Calpe settled the third partys claim for a total sum of £9,517.00.
The personal injury  aspect of the claim made  up £8,384.00  of this amount. Mrs M held an
All Sections Excess policy, which meant a £3,000 excess was applicable for any claim.
Calpe deducted  the amount of Mrs Ms own vehicle  damages from the excess.  This left
£1,936.21 of the excess Mrs M had to pay following the settlement of the claim.
Mrs M was unhappy at having to pay this amount. She said the accident  was low impact  and
didnt think the third party would have sustained  any injuries. So, she didnt  think  the
personal injury aspect of the third party claim shouldve been settled. She said if Calpe had
investigated this properly, the total claim would have fallen below the excess amount
meaning she wouldnt have as much to pay.
Calpe didnt agree.  They  said they wouldnt have been able to defend the claim  due to the
accident circumstances and the other evidence provided by the third party.  So, they settled
the claim to mitigate  costs, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  Because of
this, they felt the outstanding excess amount remained payable. Mrs M remained unhappy
so she referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld  it. He thought Calpe hadnt challenged
the personal injury  aspect  of the claim as hed expect. Because  of this, he thought theyd
settled the claim unfairly. So, he recommended that Calpe  should remove the personal injury
costs from the claim which reduced the amount Mrs M needed to pay to £297.21. He also
thought Calpe should pay Mrs M £200.00  for the inconvenience she experienced.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2019, where  I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont
think the complaint  should be upheld and Ill explain why.
When reviewing this complaint, Ive looked  at whether Calpe acted fairly when settling the
third partys  claim. I note the liability isnt disputed.
Ref: DRN60330022Ive seen Mrs Ms policy document  which explains  that they had the right to settle the claim
without Mrs Ms agreement. It explains that Calpe will settle all claims on the best terms
available and keep  the claim payment to a minimum as much as possible. So, I have
focused on whether  Calpe did enough to mitigate the costs of the claim when dealing  with
the third party.
Ive seen the investigators report, provided to Calpe after interviewing Mrs M. They  state
we would recommend that liability is accepted and the third party claim is dealt  with on the
best possible terms. So, they agreed that Calpe  would  need to pay the third party  costs.
But, they also say it was clear the accident happened at a low speed so felt any personal
injury claims would be done so on an opportunistic  basis  for financial  gain.  Id expect Calpe
to consider this advice.  But, Id expect them to balance this advice against the information
they received  from the third party and the accident  circumstances.
Ive seen both medical  reports, from the GP and the Consultant  Psychologist.  It isnt my role
to decide whether the reports were accurate. But Ive considered whether they included
information that would suggest to Calpe that they should be challenged. I dont think  they
did. Together, they say the third party suffered physical and emotional  injuries  from the
accident. Both reports say the third partys  symptoms  were consistent with being involved in
an accident of the type in question  a rear-end shunt - and recommend further treatment.  I
think its reasonable for Calpe to rely on these reports and so its fair for them  to agree that
the third party  had a legitimate personal injury claim.
I understand Mrs M feels the impact was low speed, so injuries couldnt have been
sustained. Ive seen images  that shes provided to show what she believes to be minimal
damage on the third party car and her own. But, Ive seen that the third partys car was
written off due to the cost it would take to repair the damage caused by the accident. Ive
also seen that Mrs Ms own repairs were quoted at £1,063.79. So, regardless of the speed, I
think the impact was sufficient to cause damage. Because of this, I think  its fair for Calpe  to
accept injuries could also have been caused  to the third party.
For these reasons, and the fact liability was admitted, Calpe said they decided to settle the
claim to mitigate the costs. They said it wouldve been  difficult  to defend the claim if it was
progressed to court and I think  this was a reasonable decision.
I have also seen that Calpe have negotiated with the third party about the personal injury
costs. In particular, they refused to accept  an increase once an amount had been agreed. I
think this shows Calpe  attempting to settle the claim on the best  terms available,  in line
with the terms of the policy.
So, I think Calpe have  acted reasonably  when  settling the claim. I understand this isnt the
news Mrs M wanted to hear as there  is an excess amount  that still needs to be paid. But, the
terms of the policy  explain  that Mrs M is liable  to pay the excess  amount once the claim has
been settled, whether  or not she agrees with the costs. Because of this, I think  Calpe were
fair to ask Mrs M for the remaining £1,936.21 and this amount remains payable.  So I dont
intend to ask Calpe to do anything more in respect  of this complaint.
responses
Calpe hasnt provided any further  comments for me to consider. Mrs M made further  
comments which I have summarised  below:
Ref: DRN60330023She doesnt think she was given the opportunity to defend herself  against  the claim 
made by the third party
Shes questioned  the quality of the inspection of her own car
Shes unhappy she hasnt been provided  with the medical reports
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
Mrs M doesnt  feel she was given the opportunity  to explain  why she didnt agree with the 
third partys  claim. But Mrs M did provide a statement explaining her version of events which  
was considered. Following her statement, Calpe were recommended to accept liability  due 
to the accident  circumstances.  As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Calpe 
challenged the third partys claim fairly and were  reasonable when accepting the claim. I 
dont think its likely  that any information Mrs M couldve  provided would have strengthened 
her position  to a point  where Calpe should challenge the claim as liability  had already  been  
accepted.
I also think the inspection  of Mrs Ms car was fair and followed usual industry  guidelines. It 
also doesnt alter the fact that the third partys car was damaged  to the extent  it was written 
off. As explained in my provisional decision, I think this shows there was a significant impact 
that may have led to the injuries sustained and discussed in the medical reports.  So again, I 
wouldnt expect Calpe  to have challenged these any further than they did.
Calpe arent  able to provide copies of the reports to Mrs M as they contain  sensitive 
information about the third party, so I cant agree theyve acted unfairly by not sending them.
I want to make clear again that I understand Mrs M is frustrated as she doesnt believe the 
third partys  claim  to be genuine.  But I wouldnt have expected  Calpe to have done any more  
than they have to challenge the costs claimed  by the third party.  So, I dont think  Calpe need  
to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about  Calpe  Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6033002