K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has made this complaint on behalf  of her late husband, Mr S. She is unhappy that The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  will pay only a 50 per cent spouse  annuity after Mr S 
died. She says this is a mistake and it should pay 100 per cent.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision and an extract of that 
decision is attached  below.
In that decision  I said that I wasnt minded to uphold  this complaint and I explained why. I 
said, in summary, that I was satisfied that the annuity that was arranged was consistent with 
the application that was made. It was the quotation for the 50 per cent spouse benefit that 
was completed and returned. The telephone record for the call on 8 November 2016 records 
that the new figures were relayed to the financial  adviser, but these were only the figures for 
the 50 per cent spouse benefit. No figures were  apparently requested  or provided for a full 
spouse benefit.
Whilst I could understand  if there may have been a mistake  by Mr S (or his adviser) in 
respect of the original  application completed. That doesnt explain why the updated quotes 
were only requested for the 50 per cent spouse benefit or why only these  figures were 
discussed in the telephone call on 8 November.
The contemporaneous evidence suggests that Mr S wished to secure  an annuity with a 
50 per cent spouse  benefit. That was the annuity he appears to have requested. There is no 
contemporaneous documentary evidence to suggest otherwise. And I wasnt  satisfied that if 
Prudential had provided further  information,  including the key-facts,  once the annuity was in 
place, that this would have made any difference. Thats because I wasnt persuaded that the 
wrong annuity was arranged.
Mrs S responded and said that she didnt agree. She said that she had no new evidence but 
the crux of the complaint was that the key-facts were not received. Without  these they 
werent to know which  application had been made.  Mistakes may have been made by both 
parties but no compromise  has been  offered.
Prudential didnt respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note what  Mrs S has said but that 
doesnt cause  me to change my view.
As I said,  it may be possible  that the wrong  application was submitted but I dont  believe  
that is the most likely  explanation. That doesnt explain why the 50 per cent option was the 
one that was updated and not the 100 per cent option. Or why it was the 50 per cent option 
that was discussed directly  with the adviser.
So Ive not changed my mind and my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
appreciate that this decision will disappoint  Mrs S and I do realise  that the pension will have 
been very important  to her. Its not a decision that Ive reached  easily,  and I must have 
regard to all of the evidence in deciding  what is most  likely  to have happened. 
Ref: DRN63486732my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63486733COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S has made this complaint on behalf of her late husband, Mr S. She is unhappy  that The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited will pay only a 50 per cent spouse annuity after Mr S died. 
She says this is a mistake  and it should pay 100 per cent.
 
background
Mr S held a pension  with Prudential. The pension  was payable in late 2016. In July 2016 Mr Ss 
financial adviser (IFA) contacted Prudential and asked for annuity quotes based on a spouse  pension 
of both 50 per cent and 100 per cent.
On 28 July 2016  Prudential  issued the quotations as requested. The quotation with a 100 per cent 
spouse pension, after payment of a cash  lump  sum, provided an annual pension of £4133.08  and said 
that the full pension  would  be payable after Mr Ss death.
The quotation based on a 50 per cent spouse pension  provided for a pension  of £4,607.88 and said 
that half this amount would be payable  after Mr Ss death.
Mr S, apparently on the advice of his IFA, who completed  an advice certificate,  returned  the quotation 
which provided for a 50 per cent spouse pension. The pension amount  was circled and marked with 
an asterisk.
The quotation was returned outside the three month guarantee period. There were telephone calls 
between Prudential and the IFA in November  2016  and up to date figures were prepared  ready  for 
payment to begin in December 2016. The new figures were based on a 50 per cent spouse pension 
only and provided for a starting pension of £4,729.80.  The figures were, according  to Prudentials file, 
confirmed to the IFA in a call on 8 November  2016.
On 14 November  2016  Prudential wrote to confirm the pension was being arranged.  Its file records 
that this letter was sent to Mr S and to the IFA. The letter sets out the tax free lump sum thats been 
paid, but doesnt detail the pension amount or the spouses pension.
There is then a key facts/quotation dated 15 November 2016 which  set out the pension  amounts 
including the starting pension and the surviving  spouse pension. The spouse pension quoted is 50 per 
cent of the starting pension.
Sadly, Mr S dies in February 2017.  Mrs S notified Prudential a few weeks later and Prudential took 
steps to adjust the pension and address the overpayments that had been made.
Mrs S complained. Her complaint is, in essence,  that the annuity arranged wasnt the one that was 
intended. Mr S was in poor health. Hed wanted the annuity  which provided the higher spouse 
pension. She said that the key facts document from 15 November 2016 which set out the spouse 
pension hadnt been received. Had it been received the error wouldve been spotted  and steps could 
have been taken then to correct it.
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said the annuity had been arranged as requested with a 50 
per cent spouse pension. The key facts document did set out the details  of the spouse pension  
payable.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator.  He didnt  think 
the complaint should be upheld.  His view was that the annuity arranged  was consistent with the 
application that was completed. This provided for a 50 per cent spouse  payment.
Ref: DRN63486734Mrs S didnt agree.  She said, in summary, the key-facts and post-sale  documents  were  not sent. Had 
they been  sent,  the error  would  have  been  noticed. The documents she held confirmed the full 
pension would  be payable throughout her lifetime.
The investigator didnt change  his view. He restated that the annuity had been arranged in line with 
the application that was made. A financial adviser  had been involved and the key-facts had been sent 
to the adviser. There was correspondence  from 15 November 2016 which  set out the reduced spouse 
pension.
Mrs S responded and said that the adviser was not heavily involved in the application.  They didnt 
want to pay fees for this work. Also,  they had discovered  that there were  two documents dated  15 
November 2016, one did refer to the reduced pension but the second,  the one theyd received, didnt.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive provisionally reached the same conclusions as 
the investigator. Im not currently minded  to uphold  this complaint.
Im satisfied that Prudential were asked to provide quotations for two pension annuity arrangements. 
One would provide  a full spouse pension, the other a 50 per cent spouse pension.  These quotations 
appear to have been  issued to Mr Ss financial adviser.
The quotation that was returned was the one which  provided for a 50 per cent spouse pension.  It was 
returned outside the original time for acceptance and so a new quotation was prepared. The new 
quotation was discussed  with the financial adviser  on 8 November 2016 and the annuity was 
arranged. It went into payment soon afterwards.
Having considered  the available  evidence, Im satisfied that the annuity that was arranged was 
consistent with the application that was made. It was the quotation for the 50 per cent spouse benefit  
that was completed and returned. The telephone record for the call on 8 November  2016 records that 
the new figures were  relayed  to the financial adviser, but these were only the figures  for the 50 per 
cent spouse benefit. No figures were apparently  requested or provided for a full spouse benefit.
Mrs S has pointed to a document  that sets out the lifetime spouse benefit, but this would have  been 
included with the quotation for the full spouse benefit.  But a different quotation was completed and 
returned to Prudential.
I can understand if there may have been a mistake by Mr S (or his adviser) in respect of the original 
application completed. But that doesnt explain why the updated quotes were only requested for the 
50 per cent spouse benefit or why only these figures were discussed  in the telephone call on 8 
November.
The contemporaneous evidence suggests that Mr S wished to secure an annuity with a 50 per cent 
spouse benefit.  That was the annuity he appears to have requested. There  is no contemporaneous 
documentary evidence to suggest otherwise. I do note Mrs Ss evidence  about his wishes and I 
accept that its possible that a mistake has been made. But Im not currently satisfied that Prudential 
made any mistake when the annuity was arranged. And Im not currently satisfied that if it had 
provided further information, including  the key-facts, once the annuity was in place, that this would 
have made  any difference. Thats because Im not currently  persuaded  that the wrong annuity was 
arranged.
Ref: DRN63486735I have taken into account the fact that Mr S appears to have received advice during this process. 
Quotations were requested by, and provided  to, his adviser.  The adviser spoke directly  with 
Prudential and completed an adviser certificate. So there was apparently some professional oversight  
to the transaction. 
And there were at least three separate points in the transaction when the annuity with 50 per cent 
spouse benefit was selected  or identified  instead of the annuity with full spouse benefit. These were 
when the application was made, when  new quotations were requested, and in the call on 8 November 
2016. So if a mistake was made in the application, it was then repeated consistently  on two further 
occasions which doesnt seem highly likely.
Prudential has confirmed that key-facts were sent to the financial adviser in July with the quotations. 
But its unable  to confirm that a further set of key-facts from November 2016  were sent out.
The documents sent to Mr S dated 15 November  set out the pension payable but didnt detail the 
specific provisions  for any spouse  benefit.  The further key-facts document  did set out the spouse 
benefit but, as Ive said, Prudential cant confirm that this was sent.
I have some sympathy with Mrs Ss point that had new fey-facts been sent out, then the mistake 
would have been identified. But, based upon the evidence that is available, Im not minded to 
conclude that there was a mistake by Prudential in setting  up the pension. Thats because  the annuity 
that was arranged  was consistent with the application it received, the new quotations requested, and 
its also consistent with the information relayed to the financial adviser in the call on 8 November  
2016. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill consider any 
responses before  making my final decision.
Ref: DRN6348673