K822xcomplaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the increases on his premiums  on his home  insurance policy,  
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva).
background 
Mr T insured his home  through Bank A. Although it was Bank A that sold the insurance and 
whose name  was on the policy documentation, Aviva underwrote  the policy  and set the 
price, so Aviva are responsible for answering  this complaint.
Aviva became the insurer / underwriter of Mr Ts policy from 2005. In December 2005,  Mr Ts 
policy cost £138  for the year. It provided buildings insurance only.  The policys cost 
increased over the years  and in 2016, Mr Ts upfront premium cost was £644.62 for the year. 
In reality Mr T paid slightly more each year due to paying for the policy  on a monthly basis.  
Up until to 2011 there were monthly  administration  fees and after 2011 paying monthly 
meant having to pay additional amount in interest each month.  
Shortly after 2016s renewal, Mr T cancelled the policy.  Mr T says he queried his home 
insurance and was shocked to find out it only provided buildings insurance only.  He thought  
he was covered for both buildings and contents.  Mr T thought he was paying too much for 
just buildings  insurance and obtained  alternative cover with a different provider for both 
buildings and contents insurance which cost around £170.
Because of this Mr T says he was charged too much.  Mr T complained  to Aviva about this, 
but it didnt think  anything had gone  wrong.
Unhappy, Mr T referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Initially they thought Mr Ts complaint should  be 
upheld. They considered Mr T hadnt  engaged with the renewals  over the years  and the 
premiums had increased. So they thought,  as there  didnt seem  to be any risk related 
reasons for the premium  increasing, Aviva had treated Mr T unfairly. To put things right they 
thought Aviva should pay back  some of the cost of the insurance. 
Aviva disagreed. It provided more information about the underwriting  cost of Mr Ts policy 
over the years alongside what  it charged Mr T. Broadly summarised it explained that until 
2014 it was charging  Mr T less than it needed  to cover the cost of the policy. With 2014s 
premium it explained  the price had become in line with what  a new customer  would typically 
pay for a policy like Mr Ts. 
Aviva explained  it increased  the price to 2014 to bring the cost of Mr Ts policy up to the true 
cost it associated with insuring the property. That meant the increases werent  purely 
because Mr T wasnt engaging with renewals.  
However Aviva did say that as the cost did go up again in 2015  and 2016,  it would offer to 
refund to Mr T some  of the cost of those premiums.  It offered to keep 2015 and 2016s 
premiums at 2014s price   paying Mr T the difference.  As the policy was cancelled  part way 
through in 2016  its offer also took this into account. 
Ref: DRN61936012Avivas offer for the difference in premiums was £152.01. Aviva also offered Mr T £40.55 as 
compensation for being out of pocket of that money (set at 8% simple interest per year)  and 
£100 for the trouble caused. 
As Aviva had provided further  information  about the cost of insuring Mr Ts property, our 
investigator reassessed the complaint.  In light of the information,  they considered Avivas 
offer was now a fair way to resolve  things.
As Mr T disagreed, and the matter  hasnt been  resolved,  its been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I can see that Mr T was unhappy  to discover  he only had 
buildings insurance and not buildings and contents insurance. Mr T says it is mis-leading 
to label it home insurance when only one aspect was covered. Mr T thought as he had 
home insurance, he was covered for both eventualities. 
I understand Mr Ts frustrations, but Aviva didnt  sell the policy  it only took over as 
underwriter of the policy in 2005. No changes or amendments  were  made to the cover in 
2005. Any concerns Mr T has about the sale of his home insurance would need to be taken 
up separately with Bank A - who sold Mr T his initial policy. Aviva,  as the underwriter, wasnt  
responsible for this. They are two separate businesses with different responsibilities  
regarding the insurance. 
Aviva became the underwriter of Mr Ts home insurance from 2005. This means it was 
responsible for setting  the cost of his insurance  each  year.  So Mr Ts concern about  the 
increase in his premiums  is something  that Aviva is responsible for from the point it took over 
the policy in 2005. 
So within this decision I can only look at whether Aviva, as the underwriter, treated Mr T 
fairly throughout the time he held his home insurance policy  with it from 2005 onwards.
If I find that Aviva hasnt treated Mr T fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair, and in this case, whether I think what Aviva has offered is fair.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
When Aviva  underwrote Mr Ts policy in 2005, it cost £138 for the year. By 2016, the 
insurance cost £644.62. Mr Ts policy did increase in cost over the years  so Ive looked to 
see what happened.
Ref: DRN61936013Mr Ts policy automatically renewed  each year. With automatic renewals there  is a chance 
that, if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around,  they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
It is clear that Mr T didnt  engage with his renewal over the years and his premiums  did 
increase. But that doesnt automatically mean Mr T has been  treated unfairly. 
Aviva has provided information  to show that it was charging Mr T less than it should  have 
done up until 2014. Aviva  has provided  its risk cost of insuring Mr Ts property alongside 
what it would  charge a new customer based on that risk. Having looked at this Im satisfied 
that Mr T was charged less over the years than the actual cost to Aviva of providing  that 
insurance  so I cant say that Aviva was treating him unfairly  in this period. So there  were  
reasons for the increases, and importantly the increases werent  just because Mr T wasnt  
engaging with the renewals. 
I appreciate Mr T has commented on the risk cost,  citing 2012 as an example where Mr T 
feels the risk cost nearly doubled. As explained, I cant  tell an insurer what it should  charge  
each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk. Insurers  
will typically,  over the years, revisit and reassess  the risk using more  up to date and refined 
models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater  risk than before, the premium will increase 
accordingly  theres nothing wrong  with this. I appreciate Mr T might  not agree with Avivas 
risk assessment but ultimately  it is Avivas  decision as to how much risk a property 
represents and in turn the cost it sets for the insurance each year.  
Aviva reassessed the risk in 2012,  which  it is entitled to do. Aviva had the perceived risk cost 
of insuring Mr Ts property as around £450.  I would like to add that is just the basic  cost of 
underwriting the policy  this is the cost before factoring in other additional costs an insurer 
will face such as operational costs. Mr T was charged £335 (going up to £353.43 as Mr T 
paid for the policy monthly) for 2012   so less than what Aviva worked out it cost to offer the 
policy. As there was a bigger  jump in the perceived risk from 2011 which in turn had a 
knock-on effect  on the premium  Aviva  capped the increase in cost trying to minimise the 
impact on Mr T. It didnt  jump Mr Ts premium  up to the cost of offering the insurance.  
Overall, while  Mr Ts policy did increase in price  over the years, Aviva has shown that Mr T 
was charged less than what  it needed to charge, up until 2014. And the increases were  as a 
result of Aviva slowly bringing Mr Ts policy in line with the risk it associated  with the 
property.   
In 2014, Aviva says Mr Ts premium was in line with the associated  risk cost of insuring the 
property. So I dont  think Aviva has acted unfairly  in the period up to 2015  and it follows I 
dont think it needs  to make any offer for this period.
But Aviva has offered to refund some  of the insurance for 2015 and 2016, using the amount 
he paid in 2014 as a reference. I think this offer seems fair in all the circumstances and 
Ref: DRN61936014would cover anything  that went wrong  if it did increase the price in 2015 and 2016 just 
because Mr T didnt  engage at renewal.
Mr T thinks because he got a policy with another insurer for a lot less, this shows he was 
overcharged by Aviva. I do understand why Mr T thinks this and why he thinks  he may have 
been overcharged over the years he held the policy.
 
The alternative home insurance  Mr T obtained through  an alternative provider may be 
cheaper, and there could be a number  of reasons for that. Its not uncommon for insurers to 
use different pricing  and risk models  over time. For example Mr Ts new insurance provider 
may not place the same  risk on the property as Aviva  did. But importantly  that doesnt mean 
Avivas perceptions of the risks were  incorrect or that it treated Mr T unfairly. 
Also, the new insurance Mr T got would have most likely been  heavily discounted. It isnt 
uncommon for insurers to initially price  a policy at a lower cost than it would charge existing 
customers for the same risk. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the 
consumer and recoup  that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this unfair and I dont 
think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration  someone has their 
policy. The new policy  Mr T obtained,  while cheaper at the outset, is likely to increase in 
price as well.
So I dont  think it is fair to compare the policy Mr T held with Aviva  with the new insurance  
taken many years later with a different provider.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mr Ts home  insurance policy in 2015  and 2016  is fair.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to 
Mr T is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6193601