K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) wont  refund a series of 
transactions made using her account.
background 
Mrs R has an account with PayPal.  In August and September 2017, a series of gambling 
payments were made  from her account  that werent authorised by her. Shes  told us that 
these payments were  made by her ex-partner  after their relationship  ended. 
Her PayPal  account  is connected to her bank  account. She was able to recover these 
payments through the bank. But because PayPal had already paid the gambling companies 
directly, it has now recorded a significant  negative  balance which she is expected to repay. 
Mrs R says that these payments werent  authorised by her and so PayPal should refund 
them.
PayPal said it wouldnt refund the payments. It thinks she was aware  that the security of her 
account was compromised because her ex-partner  had her log-in  details. It says that she 
shouldve notified  PayPal directly or changed the security details herself and that, under the 
terms of its User Agreement, it isnt required to refund them.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt uphold  it. Mrs R 
disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said that she specifically only queried the 
transactions that took place after the relationship ended. She also told us that the 
relationship had been an abusive one and she wasnt in the right frame of mind to take steps 
to secure her PayPal  account. She also told us that during  this period she was diagnosed 
with a medical condition which can have a cognitive  impact  she says that her awareness of 
what was going  on may have  been affected  by that condition. 
Because Mrs R disagreed  with the investigators opinion regarding  the refunding  of the 
payments, the complaint has been  passed to me to issue  a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The terms applicable  to Mrs Rs account  are set out in the User Agreement. It says (amongst 
other things)  that the account holder should  notify PayPal if there has been  any unauthorised 
transactions on the account or unauthorised  access to it. It goes on to say that the account 
holder wont be liable for unauthorised use so long as they havent allowed  a third party to 
gain access to the account.
Unfortunately, the account history shows that there  were gambling payments  going  back to 
2016. It also shows that winnings from individual bets had been paid back via the account. 
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Mrs R was aware that the security  of the 
account had been compromised  but that she didnt notify PayPal.
Mrs R has pointed out that this all took place  in exceptionally difficult personal circumstances 
for her. She was in a vulnerable position  when the relationship ended and securing the 
Ref: DRN65745912account was unlikely to be a priority for her. But from the evidence Ive seen, PayPal  had no 
reason to think there was anything unusual about the way the account was being operated  
until Mrs R made them  aware of the situation.  In view of that, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect  PayPal to refund the payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6574591