K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains AXA Insurance  UK Plc unfairly  declined a claim he made on his home  
insurance policy for accidental damage.
Mr S is being represented by his wife in bringing  this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all 
comments and actions  as being those of Mr S.
background
In May 2018  Mr S made a claim under his home  insurance policy for accidental damage. He 
said part of the shower handle had fallen into the bath, causing it to crack. He said when 
hed then used  the bath;  water had leaked and had caused damage to the ceiling below.
Mr S notified  AXA of the claim  at the start of May, and it arranged  for one of its surveyors to 
attend the property to assess the damage. This visit took place around two weeks  later.  
Following the report  from the surveyor AXA declined the claim. It said it didnt think  the 
damage was consistent with the series of events described. It said Mr S first told it that the 
shower handle  had fallen into the bath whilst it was full of water. But he later said it had 
happened when  the bath was empty. 
It also noted previous  repairs  made to sealant  around the bath and the bath being installed 
to a poor standard. It thought the leak was more likely as a result  of this. So it declined the 
claim on the bases it thought the damage  had happened gradually over time.
Mr A complained to AXA. He said hed had his own report  carried out which  showed the 
damage was caused by a one-off event and so should be covered under his policy.
Our investigator didnt  think AXA had acted unfairly in declining the claim.  He didnt think  
such extensive damage to the ceiling below would have been caused by a one-off event. 
Mr S didnt accept that. He said he doesnt dispute there is wear and tear to the sealant 
around the bath,  but says this has had no bearing  on the escape of water. He maintains 
water has only leaked  from the hole in the bath caused  by the shower  handle  falling. He 
disputes he told the surveyor the handle  fell whilst the bath was full of water and says this 
isnt the case.  
As Mr S didnt agree,  the matter has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accidental damage isnt defined in Mr S policy document,  but wed generally say it means 
something unforeseen and unintentional.  
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on Mr S to show that the damage 
was most likely caused by a one-off  insured event covered by the policy.  If he can do that, 
AXA will have to deal with the claim unless it can show  a relevant exclusion applies.
Ref: DRN61898612Having looked  at everything, I dont think Mr S has shown,  on balance, that the damage was 
most likely caused by a one-off insured event. Ive explained  why below.
Mr S disputes that hes changed his story about how the damage occurred. Hes asked that 
our service  listens  to the first call he made  to AXA to prove  this. Having looked at everything  
I dont think that the initial  call is important to the outcome of this case. Whether Mr S 
changed his story or not, I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably in declining  the claim.
AXAs report  says the handle that allegedly caused the damage doesnt fit into the shower 
fixture, so it doubts  this is how the damage occurred. There are also various pictures of the 
bathroom. These show numerous tiles are cracked; the sealant around the bath isnt intact 
and has been  patched  up at various points. The bottom of the bath has scratches on it and 
has thinned in places.  AXA didnt think such a small handle would cause such damage to the 
bath if it had been in a good condition. The report also says its more  likely that the damage  
has occurred through  water leaking through the gaps around  the bath over time,  and not as 
a result of a one-off event.  
I think this is a reasonable decision  for it to make. Even if I accept the shower  handle  did fall 
into the bath, the damage caused  by the alleged falling item is at most  a very small hole. 
AXAs report  says it isnt a hole at all, just a dent. But even if there was a small hole in the 
bottom of the bath,  I think based on AXAs report its more likely  that the poor state  of the 
bath area as a whole has caused water to leak through over time.
Ive considered the comments of Mr S own contractor. This says when the hole in the 
bottom of the bath was covered, but the shower  was on, no water leaked  from around the 
bath. It was only when  the bath was full of water  that water  leaked through the small hole at 
the bottom. But this report is dated  around  six months after the claim was made and AXA 
carried out its report, so repairs to the bath surround could have been carried  out during  that 
time. And even if thats not the case,  the photographs provided in AXAs report  persuade me 
that the damage to the ceiling as a result of a leak had happened over time, and is more 
likely to be caused by the surrounding area of the bath as a whole than from a small hole in 
the bottom.
Overall Im not satisfied  the damage  thats  occurred was sudden and unexpected. So AXA 
doesnt have to accept the claim under the accidental damage  section  of the policy.
Ive also looked  at whether theres  any other section of the policy that would provide cover to 
Mr S in the circumstances, even  when the damage  had occurred over time.
Mr S is covered for damage  caused  by an escape  of water. Our general approach in 
complaints such as these  is to say that an insurer cant fairly refuse a claim for damage that 
has occurred over time, if the policyholder  couldnt  have been  reasonably  aware that 
damage caused by an insured event was occurring. But I think  based on what  Ive seen in 
this case, Mr S was likely aware damage  was occurring. 
Ref: DRN61898613There is a photograph provided of a towel placed under the bath. It looks  like this has been 
there for some time given  the colour  deterioration.  And the pictures of the stained ceiling in 
the hallway also suggest damage  has occurred over time.  There is a dark brown  patch with 
cracks in the ceiling where water has come  through. I think Mr S should have reasonably 
been aware that this damage  was occurring.
I note Mr S needed to continue to use the bath after it was damaged  as it was his only 
washroom. But AXA attended the property within two weeks  of the claim being reported. So I 
dont think the damage  would  have  only come from this two week gap. It seems reasonable 
that this happened over a longer period  of time,  and so AXA doesnt need to cover  the 
damage under the policy.
Overall for the reasons  given above  I think AXA has acted fairly in declining  to cover  Mr S 
claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6189861