K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of his claim under his 
employers group private medical insurance  policy.
background 
Mr G was a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy, held with 
Aviva. The policy benefits included a service under which the member  didnt need to see a 
GP before making a claim for a musculoskeletal condition, such  as pain or stiffness. Instead, 
they could call Aviva and its external case management provider (who  Ill call Z) would 
arrange the most appropriate treatment for the members condition.
In December 2017, Mr G was experiencing pain in his foot. He contacted Aviva and it 
transferred him to Z. After  getting further information from Mr G, Z authorised him to have  a 
consultation and treatment session with a physiotherapist.
After meeting with Mr G, the physiotherapist recommended  that he undergo a further six 
treatment sessions. Z, on behalf  of Aviva, agreed  to provide cover for this.
Mr G underwent two of these sessions  but felt the pain was getting worse. In January 2018, 
he consulted his GP who recommended that he see an orthopaedic consultant.  Mr G rang Z 
but it said it wouldnt accept the referral  from the GP and he instead needed to discuss  the 
matter with his physiotherapist with whom he had another  session in two days  time.
The physiotherapist apparently said Mr G should  continue with the planned course of 
treatment.
In March 2018, having completed the six further treatment sessions of physiotherapy, Mr G 
still hadnt experienced any improvement in his condition. His physiotherapist recommended 
he undergo an MRI scan and onward referral to a consultant orthopaedic surgeon. Z, on 
behalf of Aviva, agreed to provide cover  for this.
The MRI scan revealed that Mr G had multiple problems in his ankle and foot, including an 
old fracture. The consultant recommended surgery to address these problems. Z, on behalf 
of Aviva,  agreed  to provide cover. The operation  was carried  out in April 2018.
Mr G complained to Aviva  that the physiotherapist was at fault for not identifying the correct 
course of action in respect of his foot problem. He also complained that Aviva should have 
agreed to him seeing the consultant sooner rather than making him first complete the course 
of physiotherapy.
Aviva explained  that any complaints about  the quality of the clinical  care he received needed 
to be addressed to the appropriate  health  care organisation; this wasnt Avivas 
responsibility. In respect of the customer service  he received from Aviva and Z, it maintained  
that it was correct for it to rely on the physiotherapists  judgement as to whether Mr G 
needed to be referred  for a scan midway through  his physiotherapy treatment.  However, it 
acknowledged that the advice of Mr Gs GP should have prompted Z to initiate further 
contact with the physiotherapist. It also acknowledged that after Mr G had eventually 
undergone his operation, Z had failed  to check on Mr Gs post-operative  progress as it had 
promised to do. In view of these failings,  it offered £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN62417462Mr G wasnt satisfied with Avivas  offer.  He referred  his complaint to us. 
Our investigator agreed that Aviva  wasnt responsible for the standard  of treatment  provided  
by the physiotherapist. However, she thought that under the terms of the policy  Aviva should  
have agreed to Mr G undergoing a scan and referral at the time it was recommended  by his 
GP rather than deferring to the physiotherapists opinion on this matter.  In view of this, she 
thought it should pay a further £250 compensation on top of the £150 it had already offered.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  findings.  He said that Z, on behalf of Aviva, didnt defer  
to the physiotherapists opinion but simply refused  to allow  the scan and referral  to be 
considered by the physiotherapist  until the full course of physiotherapy treatment had been 
completed. He also considered that Aviva should  be held liable for any poor level of clinical 
treatment provided by the physiotherapist given that the physiotherapist had been  
recommended by Z which was acting on Avivas behalf.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
though I think  the investigators recommended level of compensation is fair. I shall explain 
why.
Aviva is a private medical insurer. It is responsible for providing  a good customer  service to 
its members so that they can access appropriate private medical  treatment. However, Aviva 
isnt responsible for the standard of clinical  treatment provided thereafter  by the healthcare  
professional.
In this case, Im satisfied  that when Mr G initially contacted Aviva,  it acted correctly by 
referring him, via Z, to an appropriately  qualified physiotherapist. If Mr G has any concerns 
about the standard of clinical  service  provided thereafter by the physiotherapist, he needs to 
raise that with the appropriate healthcare organisation. I see that Mr G has done that. 
However, because  Aviva  is not liable for any professional  failings on the part of the 
physiotherapist, I shant  be considering that issue further within  this decision.
This means  the only point for me to consider is the level of customer service provided  by 
Aviva and Z, acting on Avivas behalf.
The investigator thought Aviva  should have authorised  Mr G to see a specialist when he first 
asked for this in January 2018 after he had been  referred by his GP. She referred  to the 
policy terms and conditions relating to claims  for musculoskeletal conditions which state:
If you have  consulted your GP before contacting  us, your condition  must still be assessed 
by our clinical case management providers and we will only cover treatment if it is managed 
by them  unless your  GP has recommended radiology, pathology,  or referral to a 
specialist..
While I understand why the investigator  reached  this conclusion, I dont think Aviva was 
necessarily obliged to automatically agree to the GPs referral.  This is because Mr G had 
previously contacted Aviva about his condition and it had agreed for him to be treated by a 
physiotherapist. It seems  reasonable  to me for Aviva to say that because he was already 
Ref: DRN62417463being treated  by an appropriate healthcare professional, the advice of that professional 
should be sought as to whether he should  be referred onwards.
Nonetheless, Aviva has acknowledged that Z should have taken a more active role in 
managing Mr Gs case in light of the GPs  opinion, and should have had a discussion with 
the physiotherapist about the appropriate  action. If this had happened, it is possible that 
Mr G would have been referred for a scan and consultation following his session  with the 
physiotherapist two days later. As it was, he had to wait a further five and a half weeks, until 
hed completed  his planned  course of physiotherapy,  before Aviva  agreed to the referral. I 
accept that Mr G was in pain and discomfort during this period. Bearing this in mind, as well 
as the further  customer service failing of Z in failing to follow up on his post-operative 
recovery, I think it fair that Aviva  should  pay him a further £250  compensation, on top of the 
£150 it had previously offered.  
Mr G says that Z didnt invite him to ask the physiotherapist  about the referral but simply said 
this couldnt be considered until his course  of physiotherapy  had been completed. The 
contemporaneous file notes indicate that Z told Mr G it would only accept referrals from the 
physiotherapist and that he should  discuss his current symptoms with the physiotherapist at 
his session in two days time. However,  I dont think this is a crucial point because I have 
already accepted that if Z had done  its job properly it may have resulted in Mr G receiving 
authorisation to see a consultant up to five and half weeks sooner. And I have awarded 
compensation on this basis.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr G a total of £400  compensation.  It may deduct  £150 from this 
settlement if it has already  paid this amount separately.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6241746