K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains about what  happened  when he asked London Mutual  Credit  Union Limited  
(LMCU) to transfer some money  from his account.
background 
Mr N said that his LMCU account had ended up overdrawn, because a while ago LMCU had 
transferred some money  by mistake to an account that he no longer has access  to. The 
account belonged to a previous  business  associate. Mr N said that hed wanted to transfer 
money to an account  in his own name  instead. He said that this problem had been going on 
for a long time.
LMCU said that it had received a transfer  request in 2016 from Mr N for £1,000.  It said that 
Mr N had four external  bank accounts  registered  with it, that he could send money to from 
his LMCU account. LMCU said it had made a mistake,  and transferred  the money to the 
wrong account. 
LMCU said that Mr N told it what had gone wrong.  So it gave Mr N the £1,000  it had wrongly 
transferred, because he said he was going  away and needed the money.  LMCU said that 
Mr N had told it that the account  he transferred  money to was closed, so it thought when it 
advanced him this money, that the £1,000 it had transferred would just be paid back to it.
LMCU said that Mr N had since  said that he didnt know the account the money had been 
sent to. Once  LMCU showed Mr N that hed previously made payments to this account, Mr N 
said that he didnt  know if it was his account or not, as he had over twenty other bank 
accounts. He then said the bank  the money was sent to had confirmed it wasnt  his account. 
But LMCU said that it had confirmed with the receiving  bank  that it was Mr Ns account. 
LMCU said that it had asked Mr N to provide a statement  for this account from the receiving 
bank, so that it could  see that the money  hadnt been paid there, and investigate further. It 
said that Mr N hadnt  responded to that request.  
It appears as if LMCU at some  point debited from Mr Ns account the £1,000 that it had 
advanced him, which it hadnt been able to recover from the receiving  bank.
Our investigator didnt  initially uphold this request. He said that LMCU knew that the account  
the money was sent to belonged to Mr N, and so it was reasonable for LMCU to ask Mr N to 
show that the money hadnt arrived there. 
Mr N replied that he could  show that this wasnt  his account. He gave our service permission 
to investigate on his behalf, and our service discussed this with the receiving bank. It said 
that the account number and sort code didnt match any account held by Mr N. 
We told LMCU this. It said it was very surprised to hear that. It uses an intermediary  to send 
payments on its behalf, and it said that its intermediary had definitely confirmed that this 
account did belong  to Mr N. But it agreed with our investigator that the evidence  from the 
receiving bank would carry  more weight. 
LMCU checked again with the intermediary bank. Then it changed its mind about what it 
should do. It said that there had been a mistake, and it now knew  that this account didnt 
Ref: DRN66682962belong to Mr N after all. So it said it would pay him the money  back. But Mr N said that the 
bank had kept his money  for years. He wanted £1,200 in compensation as well.
LMCU said that it would  pay £150 in compensation.  
Our investigator changed his mind, and said he thought  this complaint should now be 
upheld. He thought that LMCU should  pay Mr N back the £1,000  that had been transferred, 
because it now realised  that this money  hadnt been transferred to an account in Mr Ns 
name. It should also pay 8% interest on the money for the time that it wasnt  available to 
Mr N. It should  reverse  any interest  or charges that were applied to his account during this 
time. And it should  remove  any adverse  marks  on his credit file that may have been placed 
there when  his account went  into overdraft. 
Our investigator also said that LMCU should  pay Mr N some compensation. He said that 
when Mr N told LMCU the account didnt belong to him, LMCU had insisted it did, and asked 
him to provide  a statement from the account. But Mr N couldnt do that, because the account 
really wasnt his. Our investigator  thought  that this had prolonged the problem, so he thought  
that LMCU should pay £300 in compensation. 
LMCU said it would accept our investigators view.  Mr N didnt accept, but he said if LMCU 
increased the compensation to £500,  then he would accept. LMCU agreed,  and paid that. 
 Bur Mr N still didnt accept the offer, He said that it was too low, considering how long 
LMCU had kept his money  from him and what  hed lost as a result. So his complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
LMCU has now accepted  that the account  that it transferred £1,000 to on 5 April 2016 
doesnt belong  to Mr N, and he didnt get the money. Its explained how this mistake 
happened, and why it didnt initially realise what had gone  wrong.  So I agree that LMCU has 
got to do something  to put this right.
Our investigator set out what he thought that LMCU should do. I think that what  he 
suggested puts Mr N back, as far as possible, in the position he wouldve been in if this 
mistake hadnt been made. So I agree that LMCU should pay Mr N back the money,  pay 
interest for the time that he was deprived  of the money, and pay any fees or charges applied  
to his LMCU account because he was deprived  of the money.  I also agree that Mr N 
shouldnt be left with any adverse marks on his credit file because of this transfer.
Mr N said that he thought that what  LMCU offered  wasnt enough, because it had kept his 
money for so long.  And our investigator  said that he thought LMCU had prolonged the 
problem. I do think that it is unfortunate that LMCU repeatedly asked Mr N for a statement 
for the account  the money  was transferred to. Mr N would never have been able to provide 
this, as the account wasnt in his name. But I dont think  that meant that there  was nothing 
Mr N could do, to sort out the problem.  Mr N could,  as an alternative,  have asked the 
receiving bank to provide  a letter confirming that the account the money was transferred to 
wasnt his account,  as he had said. 
Ref: DRN66682963So I dont  think its solely LMCUs fault that this matter has taken so long to resolve.
Im glad to see that LMCU has now accepted its mistake,  and agreed  to our investigators  
proposals to put it right.  It also agreed  to pay the higher amount of compensation that Mr N 
requested. 
I think that provides  a fair outcome in this case.  Thats what  Ill award. Where  LMCU  has 
already made payments  to Mr N, it can count  those towards my award.  It doesnt  have  to 
pay back any money it transferred, or the compensation, over again.
my final decision
My final decision is that London Mutual  Credit Union Limited should pay Mr N the following 
amounts, if it has not already done  so  
-the £1,000 it initially  transferred on 5 April 2016,
-interest1 at 8% per year simple on that £1,000 for the time that this transferred money  
wasnt available to Mr N,
-any interest or charges that were applied to Mr Ns London Mutual  Credit  Union 
Limited account during this time, as a result  of the initial  transfer on 5 April 2016 or of 
London Mutual Credit  Union Limited  later removing the £1,000 that it had advanced  
to Mr N, and
-£500 in compensation.
London Mutual Credit  Union Limited  should  also remove any adverse marks on Mr Ns credit  
file that may have  been placed  there  as a result of the initial  transfer or of London Mutual 
Credit Union Limited later removing the £1,000 that it had advanced to Mr N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue and Customs requires  London  Mutual  Credit Union Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. London Mutual Credit Union  Limited must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN6668296