K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about a CHAPS payment from a joint Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
account. 
background
Mr G set up a telephone payment from a joint account for a car purchase. It was a Saturday 
and he was told it wouldnt  process until Monday morning.  The owner let Mr G take the car. 
But the garage then said it hadnt received  the money as its bank didnt support CHAPS 
payments.
Mr G spoke to Bank of Ireland. It said his payment would bounce back. But it didnt  happen. 
Mr G spoke to the bank every day. But the money  didnt return  to his account until the 
following Tuesday.  Mr G said he couldnt access the funds for another 48 hours. So hed like 
compensation for the stress and worry he suffered while his funds were  missing. 
Bank of Ireland  said it could see Mr G had requested a CHAPS payment for £4995  on 
12 January 2019.  The payment was processed on 14 January in line with Mr Gs 
instructions. And Bank of Ireland had no reason to believe  the payment wouldnt be 
accepted by the receiving bank. So it hadnt  made any errors. Bank  of Ireland said itd put a 
trace on the funds  and they were  returned to Mr Gs account on 22 January.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Bank of Irelands response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  understand the worry this wouldve caused 
Mr G. But she didnt think Bank  of Ireland had made  any mistakes.  And itd tried to recover 
the funds within a reasonable amount of time. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said Bank of Ireland didnt put a trace  on his funds until Friday.  And it 
kept telling  him it would only take 3-5 working days to recover his money. So hes asked  for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mr G. Hed purchased a car at a 
weekend. And he set up the payment  by telephone.  So he thought everything would be 
okay.
The garage let him take the vehicle  even though the payment wouldnt process until Monday 
morning. But the money didnt arrive.  And Mr G spent over a week  talking  to the garage and 
his bank trying to find out whatd happened. 
I can see Mr G is unhappy  with the length of time it took Bank of Ireland to recover  his 
money. And I can appreciate how stress this mustve been. So Ive looked very carefully  at 
whats happened. And whether Bank of Ireland did anything wrong.
CHAPS payments are normally  used  to move large  sums of money quickly between  
accounts. And it wouldve been  a suitable method for Mr G to pay for his purchase. 
Ref: DRN69942222Bank of Ireland  took Mr Gs CHAPS payment instructions. And it processed the payment on 
the next working day. 
But neither  Mr G nor the garage realised the receiving bank wasnt able to accept CHAPS 
payments. And Bank of Ireland wouldnt have known  either.  So I cant say the bank  did 
anything wrong  in accepting Mr Gs payment instructions, or in processing the payment on 
the next working day.
I realise Mr G feels Bank of Ireland didnt respond quickly enough  once he realised what had 
happened. It kept telling him it would  take 3-5 working days to get his money back.  And he 
says it didnt put a trace  on the payment until later in the week.
From what  Ive seen Bank of Ireland began the trace when it realised the funds hadnt 
returned. And the money was credited to Mr Gs account 6 or 7 working days after the 
payment was first processed.  
I do appreciate how stressful this wouldve been for Mr G. But it was for the garage  and Mr G 
to agree a suitable payment method. It wasnt Bank  of Irelands responsibility to ensure  
Mr Gs payment instructions were  accurate. Or to check the other  bank could receive that 
type of payment. And I dont think Bank  of Ireland took an unreasonable  amount of time to 
trace and return the funds. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed  with this outcome. But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Bank of Ireland  didnt follow its procedures correctly when making the payment or attempting  
to retrieve the funds. So I wont be asking the bank to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6994222