K822xcomplaint
Mr As unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc has dealt  with his student  current account 
and that its recorded adverse information on his credit file.
  
background 
Mr A says he stopped  using his student current account when he lost his debit card.  Hes 
unhappy that as his account was dormant Santander removed  his overdraft facility and 
recorded adverse  information on his credit file. He says he wasnt  sent any communications 
warning this would happen. And he was also told in branch that he could appeal  the decision 
and while  he did so his credit file wouldnt be affected. He wants  an apology,  compensation  
and the adverse information removed from his credit file.
Santander said in its final responses that it did send Mr A letters about removing the 
overdraft. He was also told he could appeal the decision and his credit file would be affected. 
But it didnt put through  the appeal on time. Its paid Mr A £50 for having to visit a branch. Its 
also subsequently said that as its original  decision didnt take into consideration that when 
Mr A first attended the branch the advisor  didnt put through the appeal,  it would compensate  
him with an extra £100 for this. But it wasnt able to remove any impact on his credit file 
because when he went to the branch the account  was already in collections and the advisor 
wouldnt have said this wouldnt affect  his credit file.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
The terms of Mr As student current account  said it must be used as his main or 
primary current account. And his income  should be paid into it failing which  it might 
discontinue some  of the services offered on the account or close  it.
As Mr As account wasnt used  for a long periods of time Santander classed it as 
dormant and cancelled the overdraft facility.  As she cant  fairly  conclude the account 
was being used as Mr As primary account, Santander had acted  fairly  and 
reasonably.
When Mr A spoke  to an advisor on the phone he was told he could go to a branch  
and appeal. He was also told his account  would be put on hold for two weeks  and 
while the account was in arrears this would have a negative  impact on his credit file 
and a default could be filed if it remained in arrears for a long time.
Mr A received poor customer service as Santander didnt  provide  correct information 
about the credit file being affected during  an appeal process. Collections couldve 
also set up an arrangement with Mr A rather than referring him to the branch for an 
appeal. And if itd done so the following events couldve been prevented. 
Mr A didnt  update  his address and as result he didnt receive  Santanders letters. 
And it says it would send letters about  this type of situation. That was reasonable. 
Santander accepts  its service couldve been  better. Its already paid Mr A £50 and 
offered an additional  £100 compensation. Its also offered to remove all adverse 
information on Mr As credit file from 17 July 2018 onwards. And offered to issue  a 
formal letter of apology  about its poor service. This is all fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN65866022Mr A remains unhappy. He wants more compensation for the time hes spent and 
inconvenience suffered. He says the adverse information Santander recorded stopped him 
from borrowing for six months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has accepted it couldve dealt with Mr A better than it did. Its offered to remove 
the adverse information recorded  on Mr As credit file from July 2018, pay him a total of £150 
compensation and issue  a formal  apology letter.
What I must now consider  is if Santanders offer of settlement is fair and reasonable and 
enough to put things  right.
Mr A appears to accept  that Santanders offer of removing  the adverse information  on his 
credit file does what he originally asked it to do. And it seems this information mayve 
already been removed.  Thats fair.
Its also reasonable for Santander to send  Mr A a letter  apologising for its poor service.
Santander has already paid Mr A £50 compensation and has offered him an additional £100. 
Mr A says that isnt enough as he visited the branch  on ten occasions and wasnt able to 
borrow money for a six month period. Santander  says its records  show  Mr A went to the 
branches on five occasions  and it didnt  default  his account.
Its clear Santander acted within the terms and conditions  of the account by removing the 
overdraft facility and seeking repayment  of it when Mr A stopped  using the account as his 
main or primary current account.  I think  it also acted  fairly by writing to him about this at the 
address it had recorded for him. It was also obliged to accurately record the conduct of his 
account.
Mr A says that because  of what Santander recorded he couldnt borrow  money  for six 
months but Ive seen  nothing to show he made any specific loan applications that were 
declined solely because  of any information  Santander recorded  on his credit  file and has 
since removed from it.
I understand Mr As frustration at what happened. And I accept he was put to some 
additional inconvenience  by repeatedly going  into the branch. He could also have been  
better advised. This certainly warrants a payment  of some  compensation.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think that a 
payment of a total of £150 for this is fair and reasonable. 
Overall I think  Santanders offer to send a letter of apology, remove  the adverse information  
recorded on Mr As credit  file from July 2018 and pay him a total of £150 compensation is 
fair. And I dont think I can reasonably ask it to do or pay any more. I simply leave it to Mr A 
to decide if he now wants to accept Santanders offer.
Ref: DRN65866023my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6586602