K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) damaged  her roof when she claimed  
under her home emergency  insurance  policy. My references to IPA include its agents, which 
includes the business that our investigator  has referred to in his correspondence.
background
Mrs G has a home emergency policy, the insurer  is IPA. She called IPA as there was water 
damage to her bathroom and daughters bedroom which  she thought might be from a leak 
from her propertys roof. IPA sent out its contracted engineer but it paid £150  for the claim 
for Mrs Gs engineers work for the necessary repair.
Mrs G complains that when IPAs contracted engineer walked  across  her roof, to look at the 
problem initially, the engineer disturbed something on the roof which led to a leak and water  
damage to her dining area. She said she noticed  the wall was damp when she came home 
from work and she never had water damage  to the dining area before in the nearly  30 years 
shed lived at the property. She wants IPA to pay for the damage.
IPA didnt accept  its engineer was responsible. It said when Mrs G first made  the claim shed 
already seen water damage to other rooms because of a leak. Also the work carried out by 
Mrs Gs engineer wasnt consistent with something  being trodden  on and broken.
Mrs G complained to us. During  our investigation she sent us her builders opinion about 
what may have caused the damage.
Our investigator thought there was no evidence that IPAs engineer caused damage.
Mrs G disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I have to decide whether its more likely than not that IPAs  engineer  caused  damage to 
Mrs Gs roof which caused water damage  to her dining area.
Mrs Gs engineers evidence is:
I have worked at this property for many  years (and) there's never been a problem with water 
leaking in this area before. It is possible that the roofers slipped some tiles up to walk over 
the roof, but I was not there  at the time.
Thats not strong enough evidence for me to say the damage was probably caused by IPAs  
engineer. Mrs Gs builder only says IPA could  possibly have caused damage  and he wasnt  
there at the time to know what  happened. 
Also, Mrs G called IPA because she already had water damage to her property  which she 
thought was from a leak from the roof. Her call led to IPAs  engineer  being  on the roof. 
Ref: DRN63720262I know she called about water damage  to different rooms  and I note Mrs Gs builder says the 
dining area wasnt usually  affected  by water  leaking.  But its reasonable for IPA to think the 
water damage to the dining  area was likely to be associated with the original problem.
In any event, theres no evidence to show  that IPAs engineer damaged the roof. 
The home emergency policy excludes:
The cost of effecting permanent repairs once the immediate emergency situation has been 
resolved, including any redecoration or making  good the structure,  fixtures and fittings of 
your home.
So IPA isnt responsible under the home  emergency  policy  for any permanent repairs  to the 
roof or making good the water damage to the dining area. 
As theres  no evidence  to show  that IPAs engineer damaged the roof its not responsible on 
a fair and reasonable basis for any permanent repair cost or damage to decoration.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6372026