K822xComplaint
Miss L has complained  that Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd (Triton) hasnt refunded  a 
payment she made in error for a home insurance  policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Miss L says she received  a letter from Triton in December 2018 inviting her to renew  her 
home insurance policy, so she sent the payment to Triton  in January 2019. Miss L says she 
later realised shed taken home insurance through a different provider and hadnt been 
insured with Triton  since December  2017.  So, she wrote to Triton  asking for a refund. Miss L 
said she spoke with Triton  about this around  19 March 2019.  Miss L tells us Triton confirmed 
the renewal letter had been  sent in error and she would receive a refund. However, Miss L 
didnt receive the refund  and as shes had difficulty getting in touch with Triton  since, she 
referred her complaint  to our service.
We asked Triton to provide information relating to this complaint, but despite making the 
request over the phone,  by email and in writing over the course of several months, we didnt 
receive any information back. So, the investigator  upheld Miss Ls complaint based  on the 
evidence she provided. Triton didnt respond, so the complaint was passed  to me to make a 
final decision.
Miss L has sent us evidence showing  that she was insured with a provider, who Ill refer to 
as Z, from March 2018 to March 2019. So, at the point she received an invitation  to renew 
her insurance from Triton in December  2018,  she was still insured with Z and this wasnt due 
for renewal until 22 March 2019.  I can see that as soon as Miss L realised her error,  she 
informed Triton and asked it to be cancelled. So, Im persuaded that Miss L didnt  intend  to 
take insurance through Triton and she did so by mistake.
As Miss L hadnt  been  insured through Triton since December 2017, I think  the invitation to 
renew was most likely sent to her in error.  Miss L says the representative  she spoke with in 
March 2019 also agreed this was the case.  And had Miss L not received this invitation to 
renew, I dont think she wouldve made  the payment to Triton as she didnt require the 
insurance at the time.
Miss L has shown us that she made  a payment of £283.79 to Triton and that she hasnt 
received a refund. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary  from Triton, I think it 
should refund the amount  Miss L paid.  This is because its clear to me she renewed her 
policy by accident,  and I think she was influenced to do so by the erroneous invitation to 
renew. I also think Triton should  add 8% simple interest to this amount from 19 March 2019  
to the date of the refund  as Miss L has been  deprived of the funds since then.
Ref: DRN69045932My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding the complaint.
Triton Insurance  Brokers  Ltd should refund Miss L £283.79. It should add interest at a rate of 
8% simple,  less tax if properly deductible, from 19 March 2019 to the date of the refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6904593