K821x#15complaint
Mr K and Ms G are unhappy with the way their home insurance claim for flood damage  was 
dealt with by Ageas Insurance Limited, and with it assessing part of the claim as subsidence.
background
Mr K and Ms G made a claim to Ageas for damage  caused by their home being flooded  in 
June 2016. Thy appointed a firm of loss assessors (M) to act for them. During strip out works  
cracking of the internal walls was identified. Ageas appointed surveyors to consider this 
damage. It was decided  that there was likely to have been  historic subsidence at the 
property, which had been affected by the flooding causing saturation of the underlying soil. 
Ageas advised  that the crack repairs would have to be dealt with as a subsidence claim, with 
a further £1,000 excess payable, Mr K and Ms G through  M appointed  their own surveyors  
who said that the cause of the damage  was the flood and that it should  be considered under 
that cover. But Ageas  pointed out that under the flood cover  there was an exclusion for 
subsidence so it could only be considered under  the subsidence  cover  in the policy.
At the time of the policy renewal in December 2017 Ageas advised Mr K and Ms G that it 
wouldnt be renewing the policy. It subsequently agreed to do so at a higher premium.  But 
Mr K and Ms G were  concerned that with a subsidence claim on their record,  they wouldnt 
be able to get insurance elsewhere. As of December 2018  Ageas isnt renewing any further. 
They have obtained insurance with a new provider but at increased cost and less cover.
Mr K and Ms G complained further that Ageas wouldnt  pay some  further  expenses  theyd 
sent in to be paid, after reaching  the settlement. And at the same  time that the claim had 
been long and drawn out, their property  being left empty for a long period which had resulted 
in further damage. 
After review by our investigator, Ageas agreed to pay some further expenses, relating to 
electricity costs, the cleaning of carpets and a referral  fee in respect  of the rented 
accommodation they had stayed in. But the rest of the expenses  related to issues  which  it 
had negotiated with M about and either said it wouldnt  pay, or wasnt notified about  before 
agreeing the settlement. In October  2018  M had signed on behalf of Mr K and Ms G an 
agreed settlement  for the repairs  and all issues arising out of the claims.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Ageas to regard the cracking  as a separate claim 
under the subsidence peril. This was because although it was a result  of the flooding, the 
flood cover in the policy had an exclusion for subsidence, which had to be dealt  with under 
the subsidence cover. With regard to the expenses, he said that as M had agreed the 
settlement he couldnt ask Ageas  to pay more (apart from the specific payments Ive noted 
above). He further said we couldnt  force Ageas to renew the policy.
Mr K and Ms G have raised a further issue. That is that a damp patch has appeared and 
their builders have refused to remedy it. This is, they say because  Ageas withheld retention  
monies and failed to pay them to the builders. Although Ageas has agreed  that we can 
consider this further complaint, it hasnt  specifically answered it.
I issued a provisional decision, as further issues had arisen after the investigators  review. In 
it I said that Ageas should have renewed  the policy following the subsidence repairs  being 
carried out. I further said it shouldnt have increased the premium during the claim for issues 
related directly to it and it should refund any excess premiums. I upheld  the investigators  
Ref: DRN67213512view concerning the registering of a subsidence rather than a flood claim. I didnt uphold the 
other issues of complaint.
Mr K and Ms G didnt agree with my decision. I shall set out their comments and my 
responses below.
Ageas has provided  more  information  concerning the renewal of the policy  which Ill deal 
with below.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
scope of this decision
I should emphasise that Im considering here only the complaints against Ageas. I havent 
considered any issues  concerning M, which would have to be dealt with as a separate 
complaint.
subsidence claim
I understand Mr K and Ms Gs upset that the cracking in their property has been dealt with 
as a subsidence claim. So far as they and their surveyor  are concerned,  the cracking of the 
internal walls was caused  by the flood, not by subsidence. I have also been referred to a 
further opinion  by their surveyor  who says that as a proximate cause the damage should 
have been dealt with under the flood cover. Essentially this means that if there  are two 
possible causes of damage the immediate  cause of damage should be accepted, But this 
doesnt apply  where there is an exclusion to the cause of damage.  Thus  if the damage is 
caused by flood, but is identified as subsidence damage,  the policy has a specific  exclusion 
for that under the flood cover and directs  the claim to be considered  as subsidence.  It is 
common in home insurance policies to exclude  damage by subsidence under the flood  cover  
and we think that reasonable.
Our investigator set out a detailed  explanation as to why the damage  was in his view 
subsidence damage. Both parties  have shown us experts  reports  on the cause of the 
damage and I cant see anything in either report which persuades  me that the cracking 
wasnt in fact subsidence. To sum up the investigators view, he said that subsidence is 
defined in the policy as Downward movement of the ground beneath the buildings  other 
than by settlement.  Mr K and Ms G have argued  that the damage was due to settlement but 
theres a specific definition of that in the policy which  is Downward movement as a result of 
the soil being  compressed by the weight of the buildings within  ten years  of construction.
The engineers instructed  by M said:  The ongoing and progressive settlement of the North  
wall of the East Wing  and the chimney  stack is most likely to be mainly caused  by softening 
or washing out of Alluvium material as a result of occasional flooding  and/or leaking drains.
Ref: DRN67213513They refer to settlement  but, as the house  is much more than ten years old, they cant mean 
the technical definition in the policy. I take this to mean general downward  movement of the 
building caused  by the softening of the soil. This is generally what  subsidence is.
Further the reports indicate that the damage was likely to be historic  subsidence  aggravated 
by the softening of the soil under the walls as a result of the flood. Mr K and Ms G deny that 
the property has ever suffered from historic subsidence. But the fact that the soil has been  
saturated to such an extent so as to cause  the walls to move downwards  does  indicate  to 
me that the damage falls within the subsidence  definition. The movement has been 
confirmed by the monitoring that took place.
I understand that Mr K and Ms G object to the damage being  categorised  as subsidence.  In 
particular they have referred to the opinion of their surveyor as Ive set out above. And they 
point out I have made assumptions about  what in my opinion  is likely to have happened. 
They further have  pointed out that their neighbour has made a similar claim which  was 
ultimately accepted  by his insurers as flood damage.
I should point  out that in order to reach a decision I have to consider what is in my view likely 
to have happened. And my opinion  on technical  matters is formed by my review of expert 
evidence. I have set out above  why I have reached the conclusions I have. I appreciate that 
there are different opinions but Im not persuaded to change  my view.  
With regard to the neighbour, I cant take that into account  I dont know  the circumstances 
of that claim nor the details of his policy. I should  correct Mr K and Ms Gs understanding 
here  we arent the regulatory body (that being the Financial Conduct  Authority)  and we 
dont have the power to look into why different insurers  have  decided  their claims differently.
In my provisional decision I said:
policy renewal
So, as a claim has been recorded  as subsidence,  I have to consider whether it was fair for 
Ageas to decide  it wouldnt renew  the policy. As Mr K and Ms G have discovered, a 
subsidence claim being recorded  against  the property can cause difficulties  in obtaining 
future insurance. This is why the ABI (Association of British  Insurers) has issued guidance to 
insurers. This essentially says that Where a claim arises, the insurer  handling the claim 
should normally continue  to provide subsidence  cover on the property after the repair is 
effected where the repair has been carried out under  the insurers direction, or with their 
approval.
The repairs  here werent carried out directly  by Ageas appointed contractors. Rather  Mr K 
and Ms G received a cash settlement to enable their builders to do the work. But in those 
circumstances, Ageas could have satisfied itself that the subsidence repairs had been 
carried out adequately. Whilst following the ABIs guidance is voluntary for insurers, it is 
regarded as good industry practice  and we think its fair and reasonable that the insurer 
should do so. That is unless theres  a good reason not to, and I havent seen that in this 
case. I understand that in December 2018 they were categorically told that Ageas wouldnt 
be renewing. 
As far as renewing the policy  is concerned,  I understand that in December 2016 the 
premium was increased from £230 to £750. Then in December 2017 it was proposed not to 
renew it but after Mr K and Ms G complained Ageas agreed to renew  the policy for a further 
Ref: DRN67213514premium of £90. Whilst a claim is still ongoing  I think it reasonable for the insurer  to continue 
to offer renewal, without loading it to take account  of the ongoing claim. So I think  Ageas 
initial refusal to do so in 2017 was unreasonable. I understand that Mr K and Ms G have now 
obtained insurance elsewhere  but at a premium of £1,200. This is with an increased excess 
and more limited cover  for alternative  accommodation.
So far as renewal terms are concerned we have  asked Ageas a number of times what terms 
its underwriters  would have offered in accordance with their underwriting  criteria, had the 
policy renewed in December 2018.  It has so far not been able to tell us.
So I think Ageas  should  have in accordance  with ABIs guidance offered renewal terms to 
Mr K and Ms G, and not increased  the premium until the claim was completed. And I think  
for the avoidance  of doubt the claim only completed after the settlement monies were 
released, so at the 2019 renewal.
If Mr K and Ms G want to remain with their present insurer Ageas should  repay  the 
difference plus interest for the 2018-19 policy year between what  they paid and what  Ageas 
would have charged but for the subsidence/flood  claims. I cant  do anything about the 
reduced policy cover if Mr K and Ms G choose to remain with their current  insurer  but I would 
propose that Ageas pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
For the 2019 renewal  Ageas can take into account the claims but it shouldnt  load the policy 
specifically for the fact of subsidence.  It should  refund the difference  (if any) between what it 
would have charged had it renewed the policy and what Mr K and Ms G are actually being  
charged (they should provide evidence of this to Ageas).  If Mr K and Ms G want to go back  
to Ageas it should  offer them new renewal  terms as if they had continued as policyholders.
Further Ageas  should  refund any increases in the premiums, caused by the claims,  for the 
2016 and 2017 renewals, with interest.  
Mr K and Ms G object to my saying that that the repairs here werent carried  out directly by 
Ageas appointed contractors. And that they received  a cash  settlement to enable their 
builders to do the work. They  say that the builders werent their builders and that they didnt 
receive any cash settlement. They point  out that the builders were  agreed after a tendering  
exercise by Ageas. 
I understand Mr K and Ms Gs point. But as Ive set out below, this claim was run by M, who 
appointed the builders  and who received  the cash settlement on their behalf.  
With regard to their insurance Mr K and Ms G have  remained with their current insurer  but 
would like Ageas  to quote for the 2020 renewal.
Ageas has said it wasnt responsible for the increases in premiums. From its information it 
understands that the premium increases werent  as a result  of the subsidence claim. It had a 
contract with the broker/organisation  whose  branded  policy  it was. At the 2017 renewal the 
broker at first declined renewal of the policy but this was an error and it continued  to provide 
cover. After that its contract  ran out and no cover  was available with Ageas as the product  
had gone into run off effective 31/12/17.
As the increase in the premiums up until 2018 dont  appear to have been related to the 
subsidence claim, I wont require any refund of premiums for that period. But I think Ageas is 
missing the basic point here. Having categorised the claim as being subsidence the ABI 
Ref: DRN67213515guidance should be taken into account. The effect  of the contract  it had with the insurance  
provider was to allow renewal terms to be refused even though this left Mr K and Ms G 
without cover. I think in accordance with its responsibilities under ABI guidance Ageas 
should have continued to offer insurance. 
Mr K and Ms G will stay with their present insurer for this policy year and Ageas should  
refund any difference between the cost of their new policy and what it would have  offered,  
calculated as Ive set out. It should,  if they still want it, offer Mr K and Ms G renewal terms for 
the 2020 renewal, on the same basis as its previous policy  terms or the nearest similar 
product.
In my provisional decision I said:
expenses
I can see that some of the expenses Mr K and Ms G say they hadnt been  paid have  now 
been agreed by Ageas. These amounted to £1,324 made up of £1,100  extra utility costs,  
£132 hotel checkout fee and carpet cleaning of £92. Although they dont agree that this is 
their whole claim they have accepted the payment  as on account.
But Im afraid that the rest of their claim has now been settled on their behalf  by M. 
Mr K and Ms G signed a mandate to the loss assessors to act on their behalf.  And as a 
result M signed an agreement that the sum paid by Ageas was in full and final settlement 
and discharge  of all my claims. We usually wont interfere with full and final settlements, 
where they are reached with independent advice. 
I take into account that Mr K and Ms G had appointed M to act for them, and it is reasonably  
presumed that, as an expert in insurance claims,  M ensured that all costs  were included. 
I understand that Mr K and Ms G believe the extra expenses should be fairly paid. Some of 
them M has explained  werent in its view payable. Whilst Mr K and Ms G may disagree with 
that, as the settlement has been  negotiated  and agreed, it isnt Ageas responsibility to pay 
them. It does look like certain elements of those claimed expenses failed to be incorporated 
in the final settlement by M. If M made  a mistake then Mr K and Ms G might  have a remedy 
against it, but I cant reasonably require Ageas to make any further payments.
damp patch
Mr K and Ms G have not been  able to have a damp patch looked  at or dealt with by their 
builders. This is because  the builders assert that they are still owed outstanding monies,  
which Mr K and Ms G believe Ageas should  have paid. M has explained the situation here. 
The alternative accommodation overran the expected completion date by several weeks.  
The reason  for this, as confirmed by M and its surveyor, is that Mr K and Ms G had a 
substantial amount of private works done, not covered by the policy.  Ageas  proposed  
retaining the extra cost of the accommodation from the settlement,  as it had already paid it. 
The figure agreed between the parties  that Mr K and Ms G were liable for, was £2,400. 
Mr K and Ms Gs liability for some of the private  work was reduced to £1,600 as it was 
agreed that the builders wouldnt carry out some  additional work.  The settlement and the 
retention were  agreed by M. I understand that Mr K and Ms G have recently received an 
invoice from the builders with a further £320 added on for VAT.  The figure agreed by Ageas 
was for the deduction due to the overrun of the alternative accommodation. If Mr K and Ms G 
are now liable for VAT I cant see that this is Ageas  responsibility. 
Ref: DRN67213516Whilst I understand that Mr K and Ms G feel that they didnt have the situation about 
alternative accommodation explained to them, that wasnt for Ageas to do. This should  have 
been done by M. It reached an agreement with Ageas about  this and as a result some of the 
money was retained. As this was a further  negotiated agreement I cant hold Ageas 
responsible for the builders not receiving all their payment or for refusing to deal with the 
damp patch.
Ageas conduct  of the claim
Mr K and Ms G complain  that we havent  addressed  Ageas  conduct  of the matter over the 
course of the claim. Apart from the issues I have dealt with above I havent  seen any 
particular complaint from Mr K and Ms G about  the way the claim was conducted. I 
understand that they instructed M to act for them  four days  after the date the claim was 
reported. As Ive also said they used their own contractors, leaving M to negotiate the 
settlement on their behalf.
I have however obtained Ageas loss adjusters  file and cant  really see that there  were  any 
issues with the way the claim  was conducted. Clearly the discovery of the cracks in the 
property held up the claim considerably as investigations and monitoring had to be carried  
out. But I cant see that M raised concerns or that there were  any issues  about delays or 
failures by Ageas to respond  or deal with the claim. So, as a separate issue  I cant see that 
there were any general problems with the way the claims were handled by Ageas.
I can understand Mr K and Ms Gs objections  they feel they werent  treated  very well by 
Ageas. But as Ive said the claim was essentially run by M. My review  of the files doesnt in 
my view disclose  any particular issues about delays or failures on Ageas part. When an 
insurance claim is handled by loss assessors  appointed by the consumer the insurer 
essentially takes a back seat once the settlement is agreed.  It accepted  here that further  
payments could be made although it could have pointed to the full and final settlement 
reached. I reiterate that if there were any problems with the way the claim was run, these  
were the responsibility  of M.
Overall the compensation Ive awarded  specifically concerns the insurance  issue  and Im 
satisfied that it is appropriate.  Im satisfied by my provisional conclusions save  for where  I 
have set out above. Those conclusions are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance  Limited to:
at Mr K and Ms Gs option, offer them renewal terms (including subsidence cover) for 
the 2020 renewal  onwards as if the policy had continued.
pay Mr K and Ms G the difference (if any) between the premiums  charged to them at 
the December  2019 renewal and what it would have charged had the policy  
continued, taking  account of the claims, but not loading specifically due to the fact of 
subsidence.
pay £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN67213517Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6721351