K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that esure Insurance Limited unfairly  declined  a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Ps property  suffered damage  in the form of cracks, particularly the rear wall of 
the house. This wall doubles  as a retaining  wall as the home is built into a hillside. A claim 
was raised in late 2017.
esure appointed its experts to investigate the claim and after inspecting  the property it was 
concluded the claim wasnt covered by the policy. In summary, the expert view was that the 
wall bulged  inwards  because it couldnt cope with the pressure exerted on it from the 
materials it retained.
Further information was considered by a structural engineering company in assessing the 
retaining wall failure,  which included a history as taken from Mr P. Several expert  
conclusions were reached, including but not limited to;
-The retaining wall wasnt adequate to support the retained soil height, 
-The material behind the wall was exerting a force causing failure due to;
oCompaction of soil over time
oLateral pressure
-There was no belief  that damage  had been  caused by landslip,
-Contributory factors including,
oDirect root pressure
oBuild-up of water pressure
oTraffic load from nearby road exerting pressure.
esure declined  the claim because it wasnt  satisfied  an insured event had been 
demonstrated. During our investigation further  information was shared, including a report 
(October 2020) from a structural  engineer  carrying out work in similar circumstances near to 
Mr and Mrs P.
This report was predicated on a visual inspection only with no intrusive investigative work. 
Within the report  its commented that repairs to nearby properties were being done  due to 
excessive water pressure  build-up  within the clay sub soils or subsidence due to ground 
movement. The author mentioned another insurer apparently dealing  with a similar  claim 
under Accidental Damage. And one of the main conclusions reached was;
We considered the movement to the stone faced wall at the rear of [the property] could be 
related to consolidation of the ground  beneath  the public highway at the rear of the property 
as a direct  result of water inundation  due to the type of soils encountered  in this area and the 
heavy rainfall that was experienced  earlier in the year.
Our investigator outlined  that cover under the policy in this case was likely to apply where it 
could be shown the event was due to subsidence  or landslip,  escape of water, flood, and 
accidental damage.   
He explained  that neither of two experts  who had inspected the property had mentioned  
downward movement  and so there was insufficient  evidence to show  subsidence. There 
Ref: DRN63145562was no disagreement  that the wall wasnt technically capable of effectively retaining the 
material it was intended to. And it was the pressure  exerted on the wall that was causing  it to 
crack. However, the investigator found that esures  conclusion was that there was no 
evidence of landslip, and one of Mr Ps experts  hadnt linked an incident in 2016 to an 
increase in pressure  but rather an increase of water ingress and lack of drainage. The 
investigator wasnt persuaded  that landslip was the cause.
The investigator also explained why he didnt think an escape of water was a causal factor, 
primarily because there  was no evidence of water  leaking from drainage pipes. And he 
wasnt persuaded that there was evidence  of a build-up of water such that could be 
considered a flood.  He referenced esures  expert report that had found voids  in the material 
behind the retaining wall and so had allowed  water drainage. But again, it wasnt the 
dominant cause of the cracking. Finally, the investigator said he didnt think  there  had been  a 
single event that caused the issue and so wasnt Accidental Damage. 
There has been more  information shared yet esure continue to be satisfied its decision is 
fair. The issue was narrowing to that of water, possibly  being diverted towards Mr and 
Mrs Ps property  as a result of other  developments in the location. The investigator remained 
of the view that flood  wasnt  an operative cause. The later reports hadnt  persuaded a 
change in view.  If it was accepted that there had been some movement in the hillside above 
the property, it still had to be shown the damage was a result of specific event. But the 
investigator wasnt satisfied an insured event had been shown that was causing  the damage  
claimed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint  it seems  undisputed from the evidence that the retaining wall is damaged. 
And it doesnt seem in dispute that the damage  is a result of the pressure being  exerted 
upon it. Its also apparent  that the main  issues for consideration relate to water and 
movement of the hillside above the property, which in turn exerts more pressure and thus 
leading to the damage.
The investigator detailed  the relevant events causing damage that would be covered under 
the policy. And, in fairness to Mr P, he has conceded a number of points.  But its clear he 
believes the damage is a consequence  of events that could be construed  as Accidental 
Damage or flood. He says, drainage  failure to cope with the excessive amount of water has 
clearly been a factor and that would seem to be covered by the insurance  policy.  
From the information Mr P has provided  I think its appropriate to highlight the following 
points;
-Mr 1 (Structural Engineer  email  September 2019) has said he knows  significant  
water run off occurs  from the land behind the bank and that this is likely to affect  the 
ground stability of this area. And hes not surprised that movement to buildings  in this 
area occur and to his knowledge generally  as a result of water and ground  
movement.
-Mr 2 (Structural Engineers report of October  2020) says movement could be related 
to consolidation  of the ground  beneath  the public highway as a direct result of water 
inundation and heavy rainfall  earlier in the year.
Ref: DRN63145563-Mr 2 also says heavy  vehicles using the public  highway have accentuated the 
problem.
-Mr 3 (Structural Engineer engaged by Mr P from before the claim date) agreed that 
excess water was the principal cause
Mr Ps says that the property stood for many decades until 2017 when the damage 
appeared. And increased water  flow into his property meant the drainage  couldnt  cope. 
However, I accept esures expert report that the wall wasnt technically capable of retaining  
the material it was holding back. In fact, the report  suggests the walls design was for a 
maximum height of 1.2m  and not the 3.5m it was actually holding.  So, notwithstanding  the 
additional factor of water ingress the retaining  wall was troublesome  from an engineering 
perspective. It was never intended  from an engineering perspective to retain  the amount it 
was.
Excess water  
At its height  the evidence is that more  water flowed onto Mr Ps property  because  of 
developments in the surrounding location. And its accepted  by all that more water on the 
ground behind  the property effectively  exerts more pressure on the retaining wall. However,  
Im not persuaded there was an identifiable single event that caused  the damage. And this 
means the policy coverage for Accidental  Damage isnt met.
There is no evidence of any water  escaping or leaking from any pipe and so there isnt 
information to support  an escape of water  event. Water is seeping  naturally into the ground 
through events  such as rainfall, and this has been happening over several  years. In turn, 
additional water  gradually increases the force  exerted on the retaining wall.
For landslip  there needs to be evidence, on the balance of probabilities, of slippage  or 
downward movement  of sloping ground. Im not satisfied that its more likely  than not 
landslip has been  shown.  Mr 3 hadnt linked landslip to an increased pressure force  but 
rather water  and lack of drainage. And esures  expert didnt find evidence of landslip 
affecting Mr Ps property. Rather,  he said hillside  movement wasnt  indicated as if there  had 
been it would be evident from lower down  the slope and tree lines.  That wasnt  the case and 
so they ruled out landslip. Having thought about  the evidence  carefully  Im not satisfied the 
damage was a direct result of landslip.
Mr 2s latest report (October 2020) indicates  water  inundation and heavy rainfall,  
accentuated by heavy traffic movement. Water has been noted  to swell the ground and in 
swelling it exerts pressure. But this isnt evidence of a flood.  Its a natural consequence of 
water saturated ground. 
In summary,  there are various  hypotheses and suggestions as to what  caused the cracking 
to Mr and Mrs Ps retaining wall. For all the reasons given Im not satisfied an insured event 
has been demonstrated that caused  damage. It seems more  likely than not from all the 
evidence submitted, that the retaining wall wasnt structurally sufficient to retain  the material  
it was, and the additional pressure from water content in the material  and ground exerted 
pressure gradually  and over some  time that caused the damage claimed. This is isnt 
covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN63145564my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2021.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6314556