K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
in 2007. Mr and Mrs U say Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs U case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The summary  of application details recorded  by Santander suggest that Mr and Mrs U 
wouldve been  given three choices with regards PPI  ask Santander to arrange  cover,  
or ask for a leaflet with more  information  and a quote,  or decline the cover. The 
mortgage key facts  illustration listed the PPI under the heading of optional  insurance. 
And Mr and Mrs Us complaint makes clear  that they understood they had a choice 
about the PPI, but took it out thinking  it would  hasten  their mortgage  application.  So I 
think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs U didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out.
Aside from Mr and Mrs Us testimony about  being told the PPI would help hasten their 
mortgage application,  theres  nothing  else to support this allegation. Im mindful that, if 
thats the only reason they took PPI, then once  the mortgage  was secured Mr and Mrs U 
couldve cancelled the policy.  But they didnt do that. In fact, there are records  showing 
that Mr U spoke to the insurer on a number of occasions over the years  to discuss the 
PPI and to remove  Mrs U from the policy once she retired. That suggests  they were,  at 
the time, satisfied with the policy. Because of this, I dont think  theres enough  evidence  
to support Mr and Mrs Us allegation about only taking  the PPI in order to hasten  their 
mortgage application.  
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs U so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them   and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example  they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Although  they had some 
sick pay and savings, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer. 
Mr and Mrs U have  also said the PPI wouldnt have been much use as it covered less 
than 10% of their monthly  mortgage  repayment. But I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs U 
wouldve been  asked to choose  the level of cover  and how this was split between  them.  
I dont know why they chose this level of cover, but it looks  like they were  aware  of the 
policy, and the welcome  letter made clear the level of cover that they had. So I think 
they wouldve been  aware  of this from, at the latest, shortly  after the policy  started. And 
theres no record of them  questioning the level of cover  at the time or requesting this be 
changed. I think that suggests they were comfortable  with the cover provided. 
Its possible  the information Santander  gave Mr and Mrs U about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful  for them if something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN61112002It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs U have said - including  what theyve said about 
there being a £25 penalty for not taking PPI with Santander. But these points dont change 
my decision.  The £25 referred to is shown on the mortgage key facts  illustration, and was an 
administration fee which applied if they didnt  take buildings insurance with Santander.  It was 
nothing to do with the PPI. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI. So Ive 
also thought about whether those rules  apply to Mr and Mrs Us complaint  and I dont think  
they do. 
The rules, and the Supreme Court judgment, relate to the unfair relationship  provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  For these provisions to apply to Mr and Mrs Us mortgage, their 
mortgage would need to have been covered by the Consumer Credit Act.
But on 31st October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages  
were no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. Because  Mr and Mrs Us mortgage was 
taken out in 2007, it was a regulated mortgage, and not covered  by the Consumer Credit 
Act. As such the Supreme  Court judgement and FCA rules  dont apply. So I dont think  
Santander needs to repay  any commission that was paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6111200