K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs G case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs G says that she cant  remember  anything  about PPI. But I think  BoS made it clear 
that Mrs G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because  
BoS has provided a copy of Mrs Gs credit  card application, which  she made through the 
post. On it, I can see that the PPI is presented as optional, and has been selected with a 
tick. Mrs G has then gone on to sign the application, agreeing to the information on it.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs G about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Mrs G any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN68661062BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs G the difference between 
what Mrs G owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off their credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6866106