K822xcomplaint
Mr C complained that Society  of Lloyds unfairly  cancelled his motor  insurance policy
background
Mr Cs vehicle was stolen  and he made  a claim  under his policy. But Lloyds wouldnt deal 
with his claim. Instead they voided Mr Cs policy, which means that they cancelled it from the 
start. They said that Mr C had deliberately mispresented  what  he was using his vehicle for. 
Hed said he was using  it for domestic  purposes but Lloyds  decided that he was using it for 
commercial hire purposes. Mr C denied  this and complained to Lloyds but they wouldnt 
change their view. 
The investigator recommended  that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because Lloyds had 
been unreasonable to void his policy for the reason they gave, on the evidence  they had. 
She thought  that they should consider his claim it in line with his policy terms, and pay him 
compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience she felt that theyd caused him. As 
Lloyds didnt agree,  the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr Cs vehicle was stolen, Lloyds got their agents to interview  him about the vehicle 
and the circumstances of the theft.  Their  agents thought that the theft was genuine. But they 
thought that Mr C hadnt disclosed  the true circumstances regarding  the use of his vehicle 
when he took out his policy. His policy covered use for domestic and pleasure, excluding 
commuting. But they thought he was using his vehicle for commercial purposes, for hire or 
as a taxi. 
As the investigator  explained, for Lloyds to say that Mr C misrepresented  this Lloyds would 
need to show  that it was more likely  than not that he was using the vehicle for business 
purposes. But the investigator didnt think they had enough evidence to fairly make that 
decision.
Lloyds said theyd had number of reasons for their decision. These included that he was 
advertising a minibus taxi business online, the vehicle had a passenger operating  certificate, 
hed bought the vehicle  shortly before the theft, and that he was unco-operative about saying 
where hed got the money to buy it. They also had some other concerns about his 
circumstances.
The website advert
Lloyds agents  found an online search  result which linked Mr Cs phone number with a 
minibus taxi business.  They also found  an online directory  advert  for the same  business, 
which linked to the businesss website. The website gave Mr Cs telephone  number  and 
email address as the contact details. 
Ref: DRN63294902The investigator asked  Mr C about  this minibus  taxi business. He said that he had owned  
that business, as a sole trader, and he advertised  it then, but hed ceased trading about  
three or four years earlier. He said that he didnt have a website  now and didnt advertise 
anywhere, and that he wasnt using the vehicle for business purposes.  Lloyds didnt believe 
this, and declined  his claim in about  March 2018.
However our investigator contacted the online directory publisher of the advert.  They said 
that their advert was a free advert,  and that theyd  been  running it by mistake.  They  
confirmed from their records  that in September 2014  Mr C had asked them to cancel all of 
the advertising for the minibus  business, and that due to a technical error  on their part it 
remained live, but theyd now removed it.They confirmed that in August 2018, some  months  
after Lloyds had declined  his claim.  So that supported Mr Cs account.
The investigator passed this information  to Lloyds, but they felt that it still didnt answer their 
concerns about  the live and updated website, the insureds email  address, and the other 
factors that their agents had raised.  But although Lloyds say that the business website was 
live and updated, they havent shown  us that. Lloyds have a screenshot  of the business  
website to which the online directory advert  linked.  The screenshot  has a 2018 date on it, but 
that may have been the directory  publishers  own date, and in any event it was before the 
date that the online  directory advertiser confirmed  that the website was only there because 
of their mistake. And Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds investigated the matter  with the 
adverts publisher at all. So I dont think that this evidence was good enough to support 
Lloyds decision that Mr C had deliberately  misrepresented the vehicles usage.
Lloyds have also relied on a screenshot of a page  from an online search engine which 
contains only the name of the same  minibus  business and Mr Cs telephone number. It has 
no other information, or website link. But its not uncommon for outdated  information  to 
remain on the internet.  So Lloyds would  have to show that this search engine information 
referred to a business  Mr C was still carrying on at the relevant time, as opposed to one that 
he had stopped in 2014. But they havent done  that. And so I dont think that its adequate  
evidence to support  Lloyds  decision either. 
Vehicle has a certificate confirming it is fit to carry people for profit 
Lloyds said that the vehicle had a certificate which  meant that it was fit to carry passengers 
for profit. But our investigator found that the certificate was issued in December 2016, before 
Mr C bought the vehicle, and that its similar to an MOT certificate.  So just because  the 
vehicle has one of these certificates, it doesnt  necessarily follow that Mr C was using it for 
business purposes.
Our investigator also found that someone who drives a taxi or minibus service for the 
general public needed a special operators  licence. She checked the government website for 
this. It shows that Mr C didnt have such a licence and hasnt had one since about 2014 
when he surrendered it, which was around the time he said his business  stopped  trading.
Lloyds say its irrelevant  that he doesnt  have a relevant licence, as he could be operating 
without one. But if so I think that it would have  been reasonable for Lloyds to investigate  that 
issue and address it as part of their overall balance  of probabilities  decision, and I dont see 
that they did.
Lloyds also felt that Mr C was uncooperative  about how hed financed  the vehicle purchase, 
and he couldnt  show them a payment receipt from the seller for the vehicle. Mr C said hed 
been upset by their agents questions about that, as he didnt think  they were relevant to the 
Ref: DRN63294903misrepresentation of usage claim,  and he felt that he had plausible explanations. But in any 
event, Lloyds accept  that the vehicle was registered  in Mr Cs name  at the time of the theft,  
and that the theft was genuine. So I dont  think that Lloyds suspicions above support their 
reason for declining his claim of deliberate misrepresentation about usage.
Lloyds had suspicions that Mr C hadnt  been  honest about some  other  things, including  
where he lived, but he gave a not implausible explanation for being in the area where  the 
vehicle was stolen,  and in any event Lloyds  considered the theft to be genuine.  Lloyds also 
felt that one of Mr Cs email addresses  inferred that he was still he was working as a taxi 
driver. But I dont think thats a reasonable assumption, given that Mr C had been a taxi 
driver in the past. Again, I dont think that these matters are relevant to the issue of whether 
or not he was using  the vehicle commercially,  and so had deliberately  misrepresented  usage 
to them.  
What I have to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable  of Lloyds to void his policy  for 
the specific reason  they gave, namely  deliberate  misrepresentation  as to vehicle use, on the 
evidence they had. Lloyds say that taking all the information together  built a picture of an 
individual who, on the balance of probabilities, was using the vehicle for commercial 
purposes. 
But I dont agree that their information was sufficient for them to think  that, as Ive detailed  
above. And so I dont  think  that it was fair for Lloyds to void Mr Cs policy  and decline the 
claim for the reason they gave. It follows that I think that Lloyds should reinstate his policy,  
and deal with his claim in line with its remaining terms and conditions, and remove any 
record of the voidance from his insurance  record. Although Lloyds were entitled to 
investigate the matter, it was about 6 months after his claim before they voided his policy  
and I dont think that they kept Mr C updated very well. I can see that he found  this 
frustrating. And so I think that Lloyds should  also pay him compensation of £250 for the 
trouble and inconvenience  he experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I 
require Society of Lloyds  to:
Reinstate Mr Cs policy and consider his claim in line with its remaining terms and 
conditions.
Add interest to any cash settlement at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
Remove all record  of the voidance from internal and external databases and give
Mr C a letter explaining  that the voidance  was done in error.
Pay him £250 in compensation for his trouble and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63294904If Lloyds consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off and should  also him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Lloyds must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN6329490