K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car supplied  to him by FirstRand  Bank  Limited t/a Motonovo  Finance 
under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject the 
car.
background
In May 2018, Mr C acquired  a used car financed with a HPA arranged by FirstRand. The car 
was around 3 years and 7 months  old and had done approximately 17,000 miles. Two 
weeks after he acquired the car, he noticed  it was making a noise when he drove it and so 
he took it back to the dealership to be repaired.  The invoice stated the clutch plate had been 
worn and the release bearing  was noisy. A new clutch kit was fitted,  including the clutch  
pressure plate and release bearing. 
Mr C contacted FirstRand on 15th August  2018  to tell it the supplying dealership had told him 
it had replaced the clutch, but there was still a loud noise  while  the car was being  driven.  He 
said he didnt believe the garage had fitted  a new clutch as the biting point was still in the 
same place as before  and the car was still making  the same  loud noises.  FirstRand  said an 
independent engineer would need  to assess the car to determine what the fault was and 
who was liable. 
The car was inspected by an independent engineer on 12th September 2018. The engineer 
concluded the operation  of the clutch  was smooth and normal in terms of its biting point. He 
said he had no reason to believe the clutch hadnt  been replaced by the supplying 
dealership. Regarding the loud noise, the engineer described a substantial knocking and 
rattling from beneath the vehicle, and he commented that on the balance of probability the 
condition would have  been developing at finance inception. The previous clutch  replacement 
has not rectified the faults. He advised the vehicle requires the gearbox to be removed, 
dismantled, checked and repaired as necessary.
Mr C told FirstRand  he wanted to reject  the car. But FirstRand argued that the engineers  
report had confirmed there was no fault with the clutch. It accepted there was a noise  which 
came from the gearbox while idle, which was eliminated when the clutch was depressed. But 
it said the report was inconclusive  and suggested the noise may be due to the commercial 
nature of the gearbox.
 
FirstRand asked the engineer for further  comments and the engineer  said having reviewed 
the information provided, it suggested it is a characteristic  of the transmission assembly, 
which is perfectly plausible.  The engineer  revised  his position and concluded the noise  was 
a characteristic  of the car and that there  was no fault. He advised the condition should  be 
monitored and if it deteriorated within 3,000  miles he would consider the condition would 
have been pre-existing. 
FirstRand said the manufacturer had also confirmed the noise was a characteristic. It closed 
the complaint  and told Mr C hed need to collect the car from the dealership.  Mr C has since 
complained to this service  confirming he wants to reject the car.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and she thought  the expert report  was conclusive as it 
had identified a fault and recommended an appropriate remedy. She recommended that 
Ref: DRN65208992FirstRand should allow the vehicle to be rejected; refund all but one monthly  payment  and 
the deposit to Mr C, and pay him £100 compensation.
FirstRand has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Its argued that, 
originally, the independent  engineer hadnt considered if the noise was a characteristic of the 
vehicle but that he had since  reviewed  his position. Its commented the view seemed to be 
reliant on information which was later reconsidered  and that in order for an issue to persist,  it 
would have to be present  in the first place, pointing out that the clutch  operation  was found 
to be normal. Its also argued the revised  evidence was more  valid than the initial  report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  for 
broadly the same reasons.
Under a HPA, the finance provider supplies the goods to the consumer and retains 
ownership until all payments are made. Therefore it can be held liable for the quality of the 
goods at the point of supply.
The crux of this complaint is whether the issue with Mr Cs car means it wasnt of satisfactory  
quality at the point of sale. The timing  of Mr Cs discovery of the issue means that, if it was a 
fault, its likely the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale.  The question for me 
is whether the issue was a fault, or whether it was a characteristic of the car, in which case 
the car cant  reasonably be said to have been  of unsatisfactory  quality.
Mr C reported a fault with the car within two weeks of his having  acquired it. Dissatisfied with 
the dealerships  attempts  to repair it, Mr C reported the problem to FirstRand  as ongoing and 
FirstRand arranged for an independent  engineer to inspect the car.
The outcome of the inspection is now the cause of the dispute.  This is because the engineer 
initially identified a substantial  knocking and rattling  and concluded  there was a fault with 
the car, in response to which Mr C said he wanted  to reject it. However, when asked  by 
FirstRand to clarify his comments, the engineer changed his mind and said it could be a 
characteristic of the car, but further  monitoring would  be required.
Im satisfied that there was a noise, that it was present at the point of sale and that it was 
probably unrelated  to the clutch.  Based on the engineers comments  in his report, Im 
satisfied the noise was likely related to the gearbox. But, in disregarding  the engineers 
recommendation to remove, dismantle, check and repair the gearbox,  FirstRand  lost the 
opportunity to confirm  the noise was caused  by an issue with the gearbox or whether it 
was a characteristic of the car. Instead, it asked the engineer  for further  comments.
I understand that experts may review the outcomes of their assessments and that the 
reviewed position  might sometimes be more conclusive if based on further  evidence.  Or, 
it might  simply  be the result of further consideration. But, Im concerned about the 
experts statement  that if the condition deteriorates within the next 3,000 miles,  then we 
would have to consider  that the condition would have been pre-existing at the point of 
hire. This suggests some outstanding  doubt  that the issue is in fact a characteristic  of 
the car, and I find the inspectors additional comments  inconclusive.  And this doubt, 
along with the fact that the engineer  reviewed  his position without undertaking any 
Ref: DRN65208993further investigations, persuades me that the basis of FirstRands  decision not to allow 
Mr C to reject the car is unfair. 
On balance, I think its unlikely the noise is a characteristic of the car. Had it been a 
characteristic, I think  its reasonable to assume  the garage that attempted  repairs  would 
have said this. Instead, it felt there was a defect  with the clutch and attempted  to repair 
the issue by replacing  the clutch and associated work. This would require substantial 
work and the warranty invoice shows  the cost to have been £450.  I think its unlikely the 
garage would undertake  such work  if it was unnecessary  and a characteristic of the car. 
I also think its worth noting that the garage  was not simply an associated or 
independent garage,  but was a garage for the specific manufacturer  of Mr Cs car. Its 
arguably therefore most qualified in this particular  model of car. 
Because of this, and even after considering the inspectors additional comments,  I think 
the car was defective when it was supplied  and therefore not of satisfactory quality. 
For the above reasons Im not satisfied that FirstRand has handled Mr Cs complaint fairly 
and I agree with our investigator that it should now allow Mr C to reject the car. It should 
cancel the finance agreement (ensuring no adverse information will be reported to the credit 
reference agencies  regarding this contract. The car should also be collected  at no extra  cost 
to Mr C) and refund all but one of the monthly  payments  to reflect  the fact the car had been 
in the garage  for most of the period (Mr Cs told us the car has been at the garage since 
August 2018 and because  of this Im satisfied it wasnt fair for him to be making the monthly 
payments on a car he didnt have use of). 
In addition, Im also directing FirstRand to refund £199 Mr C paid for Guaranteed Asset 
Protection Insurance when he entered into the finance agreement. FirstRand  has been told 
about this and hasnt made any further  comments.
Finally, Ive considered  the impact FirstRands handling of the issues  has had on Mr C and I 
think it should pay him £100 compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience  hes 
experienced as a result of being  supplied with a defective car and FirstRands handling of 
the situation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct FirstRand  Bank  Limited t/a 
Motonovo Finance to:
cancel the agreement and allow the vehicle to be rejected,
refund  all but one monthly payment to Mr C,
refund  the £2,000 deposit  paid by Mr C at the start of the hire purchase  agreement 
and the £199 he paid for Guaranteed Asset Protection Insurance  (a payment of 8% 
simple interest* per year should be added to the above amounts  from the date each 
payment was made, to the date of settlement),
pay Mr C £100 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within  28 days of the 
date on which we tell FirstRand Bank  Limited  t/a Motonovo  Finance Mr C accepts my 
final decision (if he does). If it pays later than this then interest*  will have to be added 
to the unpaid amount from the date of my final decision until settlement  is made.
Ref: DRN65208994*If FirstRand  Bank Limited  t/a Motonovo Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from this interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6520899