K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that she couldnt afford  to make her loan repayments. She thinks  Sunny shouldve 
made better checks and not lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about one running  credit account in that was started  in April 2014. Mrs G 
made seven  drawdowns  from the account of between  £50 and £200.  She made these 
drawdowns between  April and July 2014.  Mrs G had problems repaying these amounts. The 
balance of the account was cleared in August 2016. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Sunny has provided  limited information  about  what it looked at before it approved  this loan 
and each drawdown. What it has given me shows it looked at Mrs Gs income  and 
expenditure and it says that it looked at some information from her credit  file. As our 
adjudicator said there  isnt a lot of detail  about  what it saw on her credit  file.  
Ref: DRN62417772But I think a proportionate check wouldve shown that Mrs G was having problems managing 
her money. The information Mrs G has provided shows that she was having  difficulty 
repaying her mortgage and she had entered into a payment agreement with her lender. Her 
normal living  costs were  significant and were not far short of her income. And she was 
paying a very large amount on top of this to other creditors and financial providers including  
some debt management agencies. She also owed money to a number of other short  term 
lenders. 
I think that Sunny wouldve found  out this information if it had made proportionate checks.   
And I think Sunny wouldve seen  Mrs G wouldnt have been able repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Sunny shouldnt have given the running credit  account to 
Mrs G and I think shes lost out as a result  of this. So Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint about  
the loan she took from Sunny. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs G paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about this loan from Mrs Gs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mrs Gs complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6241777