K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the price of tickets  he brought from a ticket reselling site using his credit  
card increased during  the transaction and he was not provided  with the seat details until 
after the purchase. He wants Nationwide Building  Society to refund the monies.
 
background
Mr B brought tickets for an event  from a ticket selling site. During the transaction the price 
increased from £722.19 sterling  to Euros, €816.42.  Mr B also complained that the ticket 
reselling site failed  to provide information in respect of seating  arrangements until after he 
had paid. He then realised the seating area was unsuitable as his family member required 
two carers. As a result he had to buy more tickets  elsewhere. He wants a full refund.
The adjudicator did not uphold the complaint on the basis that there was no debtor supplier 
agreement.  He noted that under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section  75) 
a consumer has an equal right to claim against  the provider of the credit  if theres  either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  on the suppliers part. There also has to be a 
relationship between the finance provider and the supplier in the form of the funds being  sent 
directly to the supplier. The adjudicator noted that in this case  tickets were  obtained  through 
a ticket reselling site and the service is provided by a third party, who them passes the 
money to the ticket  seller. This therefore breaks  the debtor-creditor-supplier link.
Mr B was unhappy with this response and felt there  was a debtor-creditor-supplier link and 
furthermore the tickets did not arrive  in time so he could not resell  them.  He wants  his money  
back.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator noted in his view, in order for Nationwide to be liable under Section 75, 
there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. Mr B obtained  his tickets through a 
ticket reselling site, and there was no relationship between the finance provider (Nationwide) 
and the supplier. This breaks  the debtor creditor link and Nationwide  is not responsible for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the ticket reselling site. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr B particularly as he had to go to the expense  of purchasing new tickets 
and could not resell  the others,  but Nationwide is not liable.  I therefore do not uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6957927