K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  about  the overall service  she received from Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  (Admiral) when  a claim was made under her motor  insurance. Miss A has 
also complained  about the way a claim has been  recorded under her policy and that she 
wasnt aware of the excess she had to pay.
background
Miss A was involved in an accident  and a claim was made under her motor  insurance. 
Miss A is unhappy about the time taken to process the claim and that communication was 
poor throughout the claims process, Admiral failed to call Miss A when it was supposed to 
and gave her misleading information that her claim would  at worst be settled  on a 50/50  
basis.
Admiral accepted it had provided a poor service to Miss A and offered her £100 
compensation but explained that it had decided her claim correctly and she had paid the 
correct excess.
Our Investigator  considered Miss As complaint,  and while it accepted  she had been 
provided an unacceptable service by Admiral  they also thought her claim had been settled 
correctly and that the compensation  offered  by Admiral was an appropriate amount 
considering the service  she had received.
Miss A disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the delays and lack of communication  Miss A experienced throughout the 
claim process its clear a better service should  have been provided. Admiral has also 
accepted that the overall service it provided  was unacceptable, so I have not commented  on 
this in detail in this decision.  It would also have been disappointing  for Miss A to find her 
claim had been  settled on a fault basis when she was told that the worst outcome was likely 
to be a 50/50 settlement.
But this service isnt designed  to punish businesses for their actions. The offer of £100  
compensation is in line with what I would  have suggested had compensation not been 
offered for the service  Miss A received, as I think  this fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
Turning to how Miss As claim has been  recorded. 
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident,  as this is the role of the courts. Instead, we 
look whether the insurer acted  in line with the policy terms and whether its decision to settle  
the other drivers claim is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Miss A was told her case was likely  to be settled on a 50/50  basis.  But Admirals 
claims team considered  the circumstances of the accident along with the available  evidence. 
Having done so it took the view that it wasnt likely the claim would be settled in Miss As 
Ref: DRN64145332favour if it was taken to court. It therefore took the economical decision to settle the claim on 
a fault basis. Admiral made this decision in line with the terms and conditions of Miss As 
policy. 
Ive also considered if Miss A was correctly  informed about the excess  she would have to 
pay towards any claim. Its clear  from Miss As policy schedule that she would have to pay a 
£500 voluntary  excess and an additional £150  compulsory excess due to her age. So I think  
she should have  been reasonably aware  of the contribution she would have to make.
 
Having taken everything into account I think the offer made  by Admiral to pay Miss A £100 
compensation for her overall experience  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6414533