K822xthe complaint
P, a limited  company, says TSB Bank plc gave incorrect information to its director, Mr J, and 
caused the loss of a substantial amount of future work. 
Mr J represents P in this complaint  and, for simplicity, Ill mostly just refer to Mr J in this 
decision. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr J raised a number of issues this 
caused for his company bank account, including that he wasnt  able to add new payees on 
internet banking and wasnt able to pay the company  credit  card.   
But the main complaint  point Mr J raised was about  a cheque written  by one of his 
customers, which was paid into the company account in May 2018. Mr J said a TSB branch 
cashier wrongly told him the cheque had bounced and, based on this information, Mr J 
raised this with his customer. The customer then made a complaint about this to a third party 
which had regularly given  work to Mr Js company. And, as a result of the customers  
complaint, the third party decided not to give Mr J any future work. 
Mr J estimated this had cost his company,  P, a substantial amount of lost annual  revenue 
and he wanted  TSB to pay compensation for that.   
TSB responded to the complaint in November 2018. It accepted  there were  known  problems 
with adding payees to accounts  and that it had changed the credit card payment details 
without telling Mr J. TSB apologised for this, and for delays handling the complaint.  
TSB sent Mr J evidence that the cheque had been returned by Mr Js customers bank, 
because there was an alteration which  needed  the customers signature. TSB said it wasnt  
able to establish whether it had fully explained  to Mr J why the cheque had been returned   
so it partially upheld this complaint point. But TSB didnt accept it was responsible  for the 
interaction Mr J had with his customer, or what followed from that. So TSB didnt agree it 
should pay the losses Mr J was claiming  but it did offer £550 of compensation for poor 
service and to cover  expenses. 
Mr J referred the complaint to us and two of our adjudicators  concluded that the offer was 
fair. As Mr J disagreed the case was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision.
what I concluded in my provisional  decision
I explained to Mr J that, although  hed spoken  about  the emotional  impact the things hed 
complained about had on him and those  around  him, I wasnt  able to make  an award for 
that. This is because the complainant here is the limited company,  P, which  is a separate 
legal entity from Mr J. As it isnt possible to cause emotional harm  to a company  I explained 
that I couldnt consider making any award for pain and suffering, annoyance, worry or 
distress. 
As the problems with the company account  and credit card had gone on for several  months 
 and Mr J still had ongoing issues with the card  I said it was right that TSB should offer 
some compensation for those problems. I thought  the £550 TSB had already offered 
Ref: DRN65727742seemed a fair way to put that part of the complaint right, but I invited Mr J to let me know if 
he had anything more  he wanted to add about  that. 
Mr J clearly believed that TSBs  IT issues meant  his customers cheque  had never been 
processed. But I said I was satisfied from the evidence presented  that TSB had put the 
cheque through  clearing. The return slip showed  it had been  returned by the customers  
bank for alteration  requires drawers  signature. And after looking at a copy  of the cheque I 
thought this was likely to be because one of Ps initials looked like it had been over-written. 
I said the customers bank  had probably seen  that as an attempt to interfere  with the cheque 
 in which case theyd  be entitled not to pay it. And, as it wasnt paid, TSB then had no 
choice but to remove the money from Ps account.
As for what Mr J was told in the branch, I thought it was unlikely  that the cashier had direct 
access to information  about why the cheque had been returned. And I couldnt know whether 
the cashier had told Mr J the cheque had bounced  (which is generally taken to mean a 
cheque being  returned due to insufficient  funds), or whether  shed told him it had been 
returned unpaid  (which was the correct terminology to use).  
But, even  if I gave  Mr J the benefit of the doubt  and accepted that the cashier had led him to 
believe the cheque  had bounced, I said I didnt think that was what  led to the losses  he was 
claiming. I explained that this was because, whatever Mr J was told in the branch, it was up 
to him how he then chose  to raise that issue with his customer. TSB had no control over 
that, or over how the customer had reacted, or how the third party  had reacted to the 
customers complaint. 
Given this, I couldnt  conclude that TSB was responsible  for the lost work Mr J was claiming. 
TSBs and Mr Js response to my provisional  decision
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  findings if there  was anything else they 
wanted me to consider, but thought  I hadnt  already seen.   
TSB hasnt  responded (but it doesnt have  to, unless it has anything  to add).
Mr J said he is deeply upset and angry  that I have concluded TSB had no control over the 
conversation between him and his customer. He said he only repeated to his customer  what  
TSB told him  and so feels TSB had full control over what  he said. 
Mr J also asks why the cashier  didnt  simply tell him the cheque  hadnt been paid, and says 
he finds it outrageous that she didnt have access to information about why the cheque had 
been returned.
what Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that I knew my conclusion not to uphold this part of the 
complaint would be very disappointing for Mr J. And Im aware, again, that my final decision 
wont be what Mr J hopes for  because, after considering what  hes now said,  Im not 
persuaded to change  my provisional findings. 
Ref: DRN65727743I explained in my provisional decision  that cheque clearing is a centralised process  rather  
than something done  by the individual branches. I thought it was unlikely the cashier had 
access to the reason  why the cheque  had been  returned because,  if she did, I think she 
would have given  Mr J that information.  I didnt  say she definitely didnt have access, but it 
seems reasonable  to assume if shed had such access she could, and would, have told Mr J 
the cheque needed a counter-signature.
But I also said what TSB did, or didnt, tell Mr J about the cheque isnt the key question here 
 because, whatever TSB told him, it was up to Mr J how he approached his customer  and 
what he said about the unpaid cheque. TSB wasnt involved  in that conversation and I still 
dont think it can be held liable for what happened next. 
After reading submissions from the customer and the third party  I noted that Mr J had in fact 
chosen to approach the third party about the unpaid cheque  first. So it seems he might have 
lost control of the message at that point,  because it was the third party who first spoke to 
the customer about the unpaid cheque.  The customer  said he took exception  to what  he was 
told and contacted Mr J, and also his own bank. I said it seemed that the customers bank 
might not have given  the customer accurate information at that point,  because  the bank  said 
TSB hadnt processed  the cheque and I found the evidence showed otherwise. But that 
wasnt TSBs fault. 
I accepted that the third party had ended its long-standing arrangement to give work to P 
because of the customers complaint. But I couldnt, and still cant, agree that TSB was 
responsible for that chain of events  or had any control over them. I noted that TSB had tried 
to intervene with the third party by giving Mr J the benefit of the doubt about what it told him 
about the cheque.  I think  that was a reasonable approach for TSB to take. But it doesnt 
mean TSB is liable for the losses Mr J is claiming  and Mr Js comments  in response to my 
provisional decision havent changed  what I think about that. 
I said in my provisional decision that I sympathise  with what  Mr J has been through   and 
that this sequence of events is regrettable.  But, having reviewed  everything  again, Im 
satisfied that TSB is not responsible for the losses Mr J is claiming on Ps behalf  because  
they dont flow directly  from any actual  or perceived error on TSBs part. They  were caused  
by a combination  of factors  which  were  not in TSBs  control. So it follows that I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint and I wont be directing TSB to pay any compensation for lost 
revenue to P. 
Finally, I note that Mr J hasnt made any further  points about  the account  and credit  card 
issues he experienced. Given this, I think TSBs offer of £550  to compensate P for time 
spent and expenses  is a fair way to put this part of the complaint right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already made a fair offer to resolve this complaint. 
So I direct it to pay P, the limited company, £550   but only where it hasnt already done so. 
I make  no other order or award.
Ref: DRN65727744Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
P, to accept or reject  my decision before 15 May 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6572774