K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained that Somerset Bridge  Insurance Services Limited  (Somerset Bridge) gave 
him wrong  advice in relation to his motor insurance  policy and as a result he ended up 
paying for two policies  at the same  time.  
Mr Ss complaint was brought  to us by his mother but for ease I will refer to her comments as 
Mr Ss.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  and crashed into a barrier.  He emailed Somerset Bridge 
the following  day and cancelled his motor insurance  policy. A few days later, on 
3 October 2018, he called Somerset  Bridge to report the incident. During the call he said he 
had a passenger  with him who he didnt think had been injured but who had since told Mr S 
that he was thinking of making a whiplash claim against him. 
Mr S was put on a payment plan in order to pay the balance on his account which  he had 
been told was £236.20. He was paying £50 per month towards it and the last payment was 
due in January  2019. 
Mr Ss mother also called Somerset Bridge on 10 October 2018 to check whether, if a claim 
was made  on Mr Ss policy, the full 12 month premium  would  be due as his payment plan 
was only for the period he was on cover  (about a month and a half). Mrs S said it was 
confirmed to her that under no circumstances would  Mr S have  to pay the full 12 months 
premium. She said she and Mr S relied  on that information and this led to Mr S buying a new 
car and insuring it with a new insurer. She said if she had been  told he needed  to pay the full 
12 months premium he wouldnt have bought and insured a different car.
In March 2019 Mr S started receiving requests for a further payment of £1,820 from 
Somerset Bridge. In June  he received further requests for payment which said the 
outstanding premium was £18,200.  He said this went  against  what  he was previously told 
and complained but Somerset Bridge didnt  uphold his complaint. It said it was a term of his 
policy that the full premium became  due if a claim was made on the policy.  
Mr S didnt agree and complained to us. Our investigator thought that Mr S had been  given 
misleading information by Somerset  Bridge. He thought  Mr S had relied on that information 
and incurred expenses  that he wouldnt have otherwise  incurred. He said Somerset Bridge 
should be responsible for the outstanding £1,820 for the misleading information  it provided 
as well as £100  for the distress and inconvenience  it caused Mr S by mistakenly saying he 
owed £18,200.
Somerset Bridge didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  It said it was obvious 
that the information Mrs S had been  given when she called was generic. It also questioned 
why Mr S cancelled his policy so soon after his accident and said he shouldve considered 
his policy  terms first which say the full premium is due if a claim is made on the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Ref: DRN66617002Our investigator initially set our file up against the underwriter, not Somerset Bridge who is 
the broker. Somerset Bridge insisted  that it was the business the complaint should be 
against because  it was the one who spoke to Mrs S when she called and never put her 
through to the underwriter. Also, from what Ive seen, all the requests for payment of the 
outstanding premium were sent by Somerset  Bridge.  For that reason, I am issuing this 
decision against Somerset Bridge and not the underwriter.  
Mr Ss policy  contains a term which says that if the policy was cancelled  a pro-rata premium 
would be paid unless  there had been a claim in which  case  the entire  years  premium was 
due. This is very common term in motor insurance  policies  and we think insurers  are entitled  
to rely on it. 
Mr S called the claims team to report the incident a few days after it happened- on 
3 October 2018. I listened to that call. Mr S said there had been an incident and described 
what had happened. He said he didnt  want  to claim on his policy  as his car was a write off. 
He said he had a passenger who originally  said he wasnt injured but later told him he might  
claim. He said he thought  this would be a fraudulent claim. He also pointed out that he had 
already cancelled his policy because he didnt  think  his passenger would claim against him 
and also he wasnt planning on claiming  either. 
The adviser Mr S spoke to told him this would be a fault claim and would affect  future 
premiums- even if neither  he nor the passenger  claimed. She also said they would contact 
the local council  about the damage  to the road railings and also that it would be hard to 
defend a whiplash claim from his passenger because the airbags inflated during  the accident  
which is enough to cause whiplash. She added  that if the passenger did make  a claim, the 
underwriter would incur an outlay. She explained that the department that was handling this 
would get in touch with Mr S to let him know if his passenger  did make a claim. When  Mr S 
asked who he could  speak to about  the final cancellation fee he was told that would be the 
retailer he bought  the policy from (who is an appointed representative of Somerset Bridges).
A week later, on 10 October 2018, Mrs S called to ask whether Mr Ss full premium would 
become due if his passenger did claim against  him. I also listened  to that call. Mrs S spoke 
to someone in customer services. He asked her for her post code so he could get the 
insurance details  as well as the policy number.  Mrs S said her son had also set a password  
but the advisor didnt seem to know there was a password. He put her on hold after saying 
he would  give her general information. He then got back on the phone and said if the 
accident happened while her son was insured then that was ok. Mrs S said there was a 
payment plan but that was only for the cancellation  fee because  her son was only paying 
for the one and a half months  he was on cover so she wanted to know  if he would  have to 
pay for the full 12 months if there was a claim on his policy.
The handler Mrs S spoke to told her that because the accident happened while Mr S was on 
cover its all on record. He said the claim would be dealt with (if the passenger did decide  to 
claim) as long as Mr S continued to make payments under his payment  plan.  Mrs S then 
went on to say that she was very concerned because  Mr S wanted  another car which he 
wouldnt be able to afford if he had to insure the new car but also pay for the full premium  for 
his previous policy. She asked the handler  to confirm that under no circumstances  would 
Mr S have to pay more than he had been  told to- the handler said no.
Somerset Bridge said this was clearly  generic  advice and that Mr S shouldve read his policy 
terms which say the full premium would be due if a claim was made. As far as I can tell Mr S 
and Mrs S made it very clear to Somerset Bridge, from the outset  that a third party  claim was 
Ref: DRN66617003likely. And I think, whether  Mrs S was given  generic  advice or not, that advice was incorrect.  
It may have been that the handler she spoke to was confused but I thought Mrs S made it 
very clear that her son was only paying  for part of his premium under the current payment 
plan and that her question  was whether he would later become  liable  for the full premium if a 
third party claim  was made. She was told he wouldnt be. That was clearly not correct. 
Following on from the above,  I still need  to consider whether Mr S found himself  in a worse  
position than he wouldve  been, as a result of that advice. As I said above Mrs S made  it 
clear in the call of the 10 October 2018 that her son would  not be able to afford a new car 
and a new policy if he had to pay the full premium for his old policy.  So its clear  that Mr S 
relied on Somerset Bridge  telling  him he wouldnt be liable under any circumstances, and 
having relied on that statement,  he got his new car. On balance, I dont think he wouldve 
bought another car if he had been given the correct information. 
But even if the 10 October  2018  conversation had never taken place, I still think Somerset 
Bridge acted unfairly when, in March  2019,  it told Mr S that he owed £1,820,  when his 
original balance was only £236.20. I think it was far too late for Somerset Bridge to ask for 
the increased amount at that stage. The reason I say this is because  for months Somerset  
Bridge was telling Mr S he only owed £236.20.  And this is despite of the fact that it wouldve 
been aware of the third party claim as early  as 12 October 2019 (it told us this is when  the 
third party claim  was made).  It was also aware  of the fact that a likely claim from the council 
would also be made for the damaged railing. So its not clear  to me why it, firstly, didnt at 
least warn Mr S from the outset that the full premium might  be due and, secondly, why even 
months after the third party claim was made  it continued to ask for £236.20  instead  of the full 
premium.
From what  Ive seen, Mr S took out a new policy  on 17 October 2018 so if Somerset  Bridge 
had told him about  the third party claim when it received  it and amended its record  regarding  
the premium due, on balance, I dont think he wouldve taken out a new policy and bought  a 
new car. In the circumstances  I dont think Somerset Bridge acted fairly or reasonably. 
When deciding on the award I will be making I would normally  try to put Mr S in the position 
he wouldve been  in had he not been  given misleading information. As I said I dont think  he 
wouldve bought  a new car had he been  given correct advice. But I also thought  it was too 
late for Somerset Bridge  to ask for the full premium  five months after the third party claim 
was received. As Mr S has already bought a new car and got a new policy, in these 
circumstances, I think  a fair award  would be for Somerset Bridge to be responsible  for the 
£1,820 which is still outstanding- if it is still owed to the underwriter. But if Somerset  Bridge 
had already paid the full premium to the underwriter and is now seeking to recover it from 
Mr B then I think  it should write that debt off. 
In addition to the above  I think Somerset  Bridge  caused Mr S unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by sending him requests for payment for £18,200 instead of £1,820. Ive seen 
at least two letters from Somerset Bridge to Mr S sent over June  and July 2019 containing 
this information.  Mr S said he called Somerset Bridge to make  it aware  of the error  but this 
didnt stop the letters  being sent. I think it should  pay Mr S compensation for the distress 
these letters caused.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Somerset  Bridge 
Insurance Services Limited.  It must:  
Ref: DRN66617004Pay the £1,820 which is still outstanding if it is still owed to a third party,  for example to 
the underwriter.  But if Somerset Bridge had already paid the full premium and is now 
seeking to recover  it from Mr B then I think it should write  that debt off. 
Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020. 
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Somerset  Bridge Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. It should  
also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6661700