K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed  his bank account  prematurely and passed it to 
its recoveries team because he couldnt  repay  his overdraft  within  12 months.
background
Mr A says he lost his job in March  2018 and although hed held his account with the bank for 
more than 15 years, it didnt give him enough  time to repay his overdraft before it closed his 
account and passed the outstanding debt to its recoveries team. Mr A told us:
after he lost his job, he called  Lloyds regularly to discuss  his finances and he says 
the bank agreed  to place a hold on his account.
the bank placed his account with its collections team and he agreed a repayment  
plan - £22 each month  for his £2,000 overdraft. He says he agreed with the bank 
that hed increase his monthly repayments when his situation improved.
to his surprise, the bank later told him it was going to close  his account and refer the 
outstanding debt to its recoveries department because he hadnt been able to repay  
the overdraft within  12 months.
the bank reneged on its agreement with him; hed told them the £22 monthly 
repayments were just a minimum and hed pay more  if things improved. And 
although he asked  Lloyds to keep his account with its collections team for a further 
six months to see if he could repay the debt in full and keep his account, it refused.
Lloyds rejected this complaint. It says the bank can offer a repayment plan as short-term  
assistance once  its spoken to a customer and assessed their financial situation. It says it 
offers a repayment  plan if it believes the customer is able to bring  the account back  within  
credit during  this time. If, for reasons of affordability, it doesnt think  this is possible, it 
records the position as long-term  hardship. And in this situation  it closes  the account, and 
passes it to its recoveries  team  where  a customer can make payments based on their 
affordability. It also registers a default on the customers credit file.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld  he 
thought Lloyds had acted  positively and sympathetically. He explained  he thought it had 
allowed Mr A sufficient  time for his situation  to improve but there didnt seem to be any 
change in his financial circumstances in the year to April 2019. He said he thought  Lloyds 
had helped Mr A as far as it could, and he didnt  think it had acted  unreasonably.
Mr A disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide. He says he only needed a little 
more time and the bank couldve allowed him a few more months before it closed his 
account. He says Lloyds shouldnt have  sold his debt to a third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same
conclusions as the adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
In reaching my decision Ive had the benefit  of the banks records  and account notes 
together with two recordings Mr A made of his telephone conversation  with a Lloyds team  
manager in March 2019.
Ref: DRN61218352The account  records show that Mr A contacted Lloyds at least eight times between 
April 2018 and March  2019 to discuss his situation.  Although the bank suggested  that Mr A 
may be experiencing long term financial difficulty and it may need to close his account, Mr A 
persuaded it to keep  his account open. On each occasion the bank kept Mr As account 
open and placed a 30 day hold on the account so that Mr A wasnt  contacted  about  his 
outstanding debt.
In November 2018 Mr A telephoned Lloyds and agreed a three-month repayment  plan with it 
 hed pay £20 each month  to reduce the outstanding debt and the bank would apply a hold 
on the account for this period. Im satisfied that this gave Mr A some breathing space  and it 
provided him with time to seek some  debt advice in order to establish how hed deal with his 
outstanding debt.
In March 2019, Mr A contacted Lloyds. Ive had the benefit of a call recording,  supplied by 
Mr A, of his conversation  with the bank. Its a lengthy telephone conversation made up of 
two recordings lasting  over an hour.  But its clear  to me from listening to the call that nothing  
had changed in Mr As financial circumstances, and he tells the bank representative this. So 
it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that Lloyds decided in April 2019 to close the account 
and register a default. I say this because the bank had placed multiple holds on the account 
for 12 months, it had waived fees and charges, and it had agreed a short term 3-month 
repayment plan with Mr A. But in that time Mr As financial position hadnt  materially 
improved and both Lloyds and Mr A agreed  that he didnt  have sufficient  available income to 
make the necessary monthly payments to repay the outstanding debt in the near future.
Taking all this into account, it wasnt unreasonable of Lloyds to take the view that this was no 
longer short-term financial hardship.  And it wasnt wrong for it to close  the account,  
transferring the outstanding debt to its recoveries team and then registering a default on the 
account. And the banks decision to sell the debt to a third party  is a commercial decision for 
it  its not something  that this Service would comment  on.
Banks are expected  to act positively and sympathetically when dealing  with customers in
financial hardship, but taking into account  the steps that Lloyds has taken, Im happy it has
done this. And I dont  think  that it needed to do anything more.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this complaint should be upheld.  I know  this isnt 
the decision that Mr A was hoping for and I know hell be disappointed by it, but I hope he 
understands the reason  Ive reached  this conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6121835