K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained because  Tesco Personal  Finance PLC refused to pay for his Deed  of 
Discharge when he paid off his mortgage. Mr P says that Tesco should pay this, because it 
gave him free legal  work when he took out the mortgage.
background
Mr P had a mortgage with Tesco, which  he paid off. His property  was in Scotland. This 
meant that in order to have the legal  charge  removed from his property,  Mr P would have to 
have a Deed of Discharge completed  by a solicitor.
Mr P complained to Tesco.  He said that when hed originally  taken out his mortgage, the 
mortgage offer had said that Tesco would cover  standard legal work. As it was standard  in 
Scotland to have  a Deed of Discharge  when a mortgage was paid off, Mr P said that Tesco 
should pay for his Deed  of Discharge. 
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  It set out what the mortgage offer had said:
Tesco Bank will cover  the standard legal costs for searches and legal paperwork. Youll be 
responsible for paying the costs  of any additional or non-standard legal work that may be 
required. The type of additional  legal costs you may need to cover  will depend on your 
individual circumstance.
Tesco confirmed that its offer of free legal costs only applied  to activity  and costs  at the 
application stage   as was common practice throughout the mortgage industry. It said it 
wasnt reasonable for Mr P to assume  it was free legal costs  for the duration of his 
mortgage. And it pointed  out that the Deed of Discharge fee wasnt payable to Tesco   and 
Tesco was under no obligation  to inform customers of all potential costs  they might be 
charged by a third party.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He said that his mortgage terms and 
conditions included both application and redemption standard  legal fees. Deeds of discharge 
were standard in Scotland,  so he expected Tesco to pay for all legal costs of mortgage  
redemption. Mr P said he was duped into taking out a Tesco  mortgage, by ambiguous  
wording. He also said there was a legal precedent for his dispute over the discharge  fee.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said that in Mr Ps mortgage offer 
documents, Tescos  exit fee had been set out:
Redemption administration fee. This fee is for the work involved in redeeming  and closing  
your mortgage, which includes releasing  the title deeds. £90.
And the offer documents had also said:
Other Fees.  You may have to pay other  taxes or costs in addition  to any fees shown here.
So the investigator said Tesco had been  fair in setting out its charges, and had made  it clear  
there might be other charges as well as the ones Tesco  charged. She explained  that the 
redemption administration  fee was a flat fee for Tescos administration at the end of the 
mortgage, to cover  various  costs when a mortgage  is repaid. It didnt cover  getting a solicitor  
to produce a discharge deed. And it was reasonable for Tesco  to have  told Mr P hed need 
to get a solicitor  to do this, because the deed  has to comply with various legal requirements, 
and the Registrars  of Scotland recommend that a solicitor should  produce it.
Ref: DRN64824042Mr P wasnt  satisfied. He said that his mortgage  terms and conditions  had explicitly stated 
that legal  fees were  free. He understood that the terms meant Tesco  would perform  the 
conveyancing as well as any other  standard  legal paperwork through the life and redemption  
of the mortgage.  His opinion  was that that included discharging the security. Mr P argued 
that Tesco knew the property was in Scotland and that theyd have to deal with the costs  
associated with the Scottish discharge  process. Mr P said hed chosen  Tesco  for his 
mortgage on the basis of known interest, known duration and known charges. He said that 
Tescos refusal to fulfil their commitment had left him unexpectedly out of pocket.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A free legal  package from a mortgage  lender  covers  standard legal  costs  involved in setting 
up a mortgage.  So Tescos offer wasnt an offer of free legal services for anything  that might 
happen during the life of the mortgage  or after it was redeemed.  A free legal  package  
doesnt cover closing the mortgage down. And its the cost of that closure process which  Mr 
P objects  to paying  for. 
Ive seen nothing  in Tescos documentation  which indicates  that it promised more  than the 
standard free legal package for standard costs in setting  up a mortgage.  So Mr P wasnt 
entitled to have Tesco pay for any legal  costs, apart from standard legal costs at the start of 
the mortgage.
Ive also considered Mr Ps argument  that his complaint is supported  by the legal case  he 
quoted in his complaint form to this service. But that case  doesnt  have  anything  to do with 
provision of a free legal  package, so its not relevant to Mr Ps complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6482404