K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss B says Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
When selling  the PPI to Miss B, Capital One shouldve made it clear the policy  was optional. 
It also shouldve got Miss Bs agreement to take it out. Miss B says the PPI was added 
without her knowledge and she would never have agreed to it. 
Capital One has confirmed the PPI was taken out in a phone call to activate the credit  card 
which took place  after the application had been  completed and processed.  It no longer  has a 
record of the call but it has sent us a copy of the telephone guidance process from around 
that time which it says it would have expected its staff to follow  when selling PPI over the 
phone. Capital One says this would reflect the conversation if would have had with Miss B. 
And whilst I cant  be certain exactly what was discussed in the call, this document  does  
direct the staff member  to ask for a customers permission before  adding PPI to the account.  
As I have no evidence to make me think otherwise, it seems  more likely than not that the 
staff member would  have followed this process.  
Ive also seen copies  of statements from Miss Bs credit card account. These show that the 
charge for the PPI was listed as a separate entry. So if Miss B hadnt agreed to take out the 
PPI, or it was added  without her knowledge,  I think she would have questioned this with 
Capital One when she saw the payments on her statements. 
So based  on what Ive seen and what I know about  Capital Ones sales  practices at that 
time, I think its more likely that Capital One made  Miss B aware that the policy was optional  
and she chose to take it - even if she may not recall that now.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss B got the information she needed to decide for herself 
if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
It also appears that the cover would have been  useful for her if something went wrong.  From 
what Miss B has told us, she would only have  received statutory sick pay from her employer  
if she was too ill to work  this is likely to have been  significantly less than her usual 
earnings. But this policy could have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 
months and this would  be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, her statutory sick 
Ref: DRN68491152pay. And the policy would  also have provided cover for the same  length of time if she was to 
lose her job.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6849115