K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains Covea Insurance Plc incorrectly settled  a claim against her motor 
insurance policy.  
background
In early 2019 a third party made a claim against  Mrs Ps Covea motor  insurance policy.  They 
said a named driver on her policy had, whilst driving her car, collided with theirs. Covea 
settled the claim. Mrs Ps unhappy  about  that. She feels  the claim was fraudulent.  She feels 
she now has a claim recorded against  her thats  unfairly increasing the cost of her insurance. 
Mrs P complained to Covea. In response  said it settled to avoid the other  drivers insurer  
taking court action.  It said it had done so on a without prejudice basis  (WOP) without  
accepting liability. So she could still pursue the claim privately  if she wants. Covea sent 
Mrs P a cheque for £75 to recognise it not responding to emails  and phone calls. It also 
allowed her to keep  her No Claims Discount  (NCD).  She wasnt  satisfied with its response  so 
came to this service.  
Our Investigator  said Coveas decision to settle the claim was reasonable. She said £75 was 
enough to recognise any distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mrs P. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Covea  do 
anything differently. 
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats  the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted  in line with the policy  terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision.  Under Mrs Ps policy Covea has the right to defend or settle any 
claim on her behalf. That means  it might  make a decision Mrs P disagrees with but the policy 
allows it to do so. I can consider whether its decision to do so was reasonable. Having done 
so, I think it was. 
The third party says Mrs Ps named driver  collided with their car. Whilst the named driver 
denies that he accepts he was at the scene. Unfortunately theres no CCTV footage to 
consider. Theres said to have been  an independent witness but it seems they havent 
provided a written statement. 
The third partys insurer provided an engineers inspection  report.  It shows  impact damage to 
the front of the third partys car. Coveas own engineer didnt see any relevant damage to 
Mrs Ps car. Coveas engineer was shown the report on the third partys car. After seeing  
that   they said it was possible  Mrs Ps car had caused the damage whilst  being reversed.
Based on the above Covea felt a court  probably wouldnt find in Mrs Ps favour.  So it decided 
to settle on a WOP basis. Having considered  the available information, I dont think thats  an 
unreasonable decision. As it was settled  WOP Mrs P can still pursue the claim privately to 
recover costs if she wishes. 
Ref: DRN67883572Covea shouldnt, Mrs P says, have settled  without inspecting  the other drivers car itself.  But 
its quite common for an insurer to accept inspection reports  provided by third parties.  I dont 
think Covea did anything  wrong by doing  that.
Mrs P says Covea ignored  her when she said the claim  was fraudulent.  Covea accepts it 
didnt act on that information. But even  if it had I cant see what  difference  it would have 
made. It doesnt seem likely there would have been any further  information  available  for 
Covea to consider.  So its likely it would still have settled the claim in the same way. Mrs P 
says Covea should make further enquiries. But I think its decision to settle the claim on the 
existing information  was reasonable. So Im not going to require it to do more investigation. 
Covea acted in line with the policy terms. These allow it to settle claims if it wishes to. And it 
did so a fair and reasonable  way. So Im not going to make  it change any records or do 
anything differently. 
A £75 cheque was sent to Mrs P by Covea. That was to compensate her for failing to 
respond to some of her communication. That seems a fair and reasonable amount to me. 
Mrs P says she destroyed the cheque. If she wants it to be reissued she will need to contact 
Covea.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Covea Insurance Plc do anything  differently.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6788357