K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Avantia Insurance  Limited  (Avantia) didnt make an onerous term in his 
home insurance clear  when he bought  the cover online. 
background
In 2018 Mr R bought some  home  insurance online through Avantia, which  was acting as an 
intermediary  so selling an insurance  policy that was underwritten by an insurer. Avantia 
didnt actually provide the insurance.
A little while  later, Mr R made a claim after his home  was burgled.  The insurer initially said it 
wouldnt meet Mr Rs claim because he hadnt  had a burglar alarm fitted  as his policy 
required.
Mr R said he didnt know he had to do that, and wouldnt have bought the policy if hed 
known he had to fit an alarm. He said hed told Avantia he didnt have an alarm and believed 
 as he thinks most people would  that the insurance would be provided on that basis. He 
says he didnt see any information about  fitting an alarm and that it was hidden behind  links 
within the online application. He doesnt think  any ordinary buyer  of insurance would check  
every detail before buying a policy online.
Mr R complained to Avantia  which said the information was prominent,  and that Mr R had 
to check a box to say hed read it before purchasing  the insurance.
Mr Rs claim was accepted for consideration by the insurer  after it recognised that the 
circumstances surrounding  the burglary meant not having an alarm didnt affect  the validity  
of his claim.  
Mr R brought his complaint about the policy being  mis-sold  to this service,  even  though his 
subsequent claim  was considered by the insurer. Our investigator didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  He said hed looked  at the way the insurance  was sold and thought the 
alarm requirement was onerous  because it meant Mr R had to spend  money  before he got 
cover for theft  and should have  been brought to Mr Rs attention. However, he also thought  
the condition was prominent enough  for Mr R to have  seen it.
Mr R doesnt agree so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R was required to fit an alarm at his home within 30 days  of buying  his policy, if he 
wanted full cover for theft or burglary from his home. That can be an expensive  thing  to do, 
and I agree with our investigator that this would fall under  the definition of an onerous term. 
So it should  have been clearly drawn to Mr Rs attention whilst he was buying the policy.
Mr R bought this insurance online, so he didnt have any contact with any staff members  
from Avantia. That makes it all the more  important that Avantias sales  process drew this 
requirement to his attention. 
Ref: DRN67393972Mr R says the information was buried in a link hed have had to open  to find the information.  
However, Avantia  has sent us details of how the online system worked  and shown us that 
the term appeared in a pop-up box  so showed on screen  automatically.  The alarm 
requirement was one of a few conditions that applied to Mr Rs policy, all of which were 
about security. Mr R had to confirm hed read the screen before buying the policy.  I think  it 
was sufficiently drawn to Mr Rs attention at the time.
This information was also shown  on the paperwork sent to Mr R after he bought the policy.  
Theres a schedule which shows  the various categories of insurance  and limits.  Its followed 
by a section headed endorsements  which are described as separate  terms and 
conditions that apply to Mr Rs cover. I think this also would have fairly drawn Mr Rs 
attention to the need to fit an alarm.
Overall I dont think Avantia did much  wrong  when selling this policy.  But even  if it had made 
mistakes then there would  be no major impact on Mr R, as his insurer  accepted  his claim for 
consideration even without  the alarm being fitted.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739397