K822xcomplaint
Mrs J complains about the charges RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI)  applied  when she 
returned the car at the end of her hire agreement.  Mrs J is represented in this complaint by 
her son, Mr K. 
background 
Mrs J took a contract hire agreement out with RCI in June 2016 for a car. The contract was 
scheduled to finish in June 2018. Mr K said he arranged the appointment for the car to be 
collected.  
When the collection agent arrived Mrs J and Mr K said he appeared to be in an angry mood. 
Mr K reported that the collection agent said hed had a meeting the night before and had 
been told he was being made redundant. The collection agent noted  that the parcel shelf  
was missing in the car. Mrs J said it was at her sisters house  and told the collection agent to 
wait five minutes for her to get it. Mr K said the collection agent told Mrs J that when RCI 
write to her she should post it to them. She said the collection agent  also noted some  
damage on the inside door of the bodywork.  
Mr K said they rang RCI and told it Mrs J had the parcel shelf  and that her insurance would 
be able to fix the body work. The insurance  was valid to June 2019. Mr K said RCI initially 
told Mrs K she could  send the parcel shelf in but when  she called again was told she couldnt 
send it in nor could she use the insurance  to repair the bodywork damage.  She complained 
to RCI. She said the inspection had not been  conducted properly. 
RCI said the charges  were £378 of which the parcel  shelf was £200. It offered to reduce the 
charge for paint  damage from £138  to £69. It further  offered to reduce the charge for the 
parcel shelf from £200 to £100 which Mrs J rejected.  RCI said it couldnt reduce the charges 
any further. So Mrs J brought her complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator asked  RCI if it would reduce the charges  further. As a goodwill gesture it 
agreed to reduce the outstanding balance of charges  from £209  to £175. The adjudicator  felt 
this was fair and reasonable. Mr K, on behalf  of Mrs J, asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. He accepted the charges relating  to the paintwork  and windscreen  but 
disputed the charge for the parcel shelf.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs J but having done  so I believe the offer from RCI is fair, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything  further than that. 
Mr K on behalf of Mrs J has said he accepts the charges relating to the paintwork and 
windscreen so its left for me to decide if the charge  relating to the parcel shelf  is fair and 
reasonable. 
RCI said it sent an end of contract  letter  to Mrs J and has provided a copy of it, dated 9 May 
2018. This letter along with the terms and conditions  Mrs J signed  for with her hire 
agreement outline  Mrs Js commitments  concerning the return of the car, specifically the 
condition of the car. In the letter it said:
Ref: DRN69376052You will need to be present at this inspection as you are required to sign for the 
closing mileage, any damage, and missing  items  that are reported.  
If the vehicle  requires any repair work,  you must ensure that this work is completed 
prior to the inspection  and collection date, as we do not permit  extensions of any 
duration after the 7 June  2018. Failure to comply  may result  in charges and interest 
being applied  to your Agreement.
Charges will be levied  for any missing service  history and missing items and will not 
be waived if these items are sent after collection of the vehicle.
Im satisfied that Mrs J was required to put the parcel shelf  back  in the car prior to the car 
being collected. And that this was made  clear to her one month before the inspection. In 
addition RCIs terms are clear that charges for any missing items would not be waived if the 
items were sent after collection. 
Mr K said his mother didnt receive the end of contract  letter. Im not disputing this but RCI 
has provided evidence  that the letter was sent.  It wouldnt  be fair of me to hold RCI 
responsible for it not being received. 
Mr K has also said the collection agent  appeared to be in an angry mood and talked about  
the meeting he had for 15 minutes  which would have been time enough to collect the parcel  
shelf. I dont have any evidence to support this view but Im not disputing Mr Ks account that 
the collection agent may not have behaved  as he should have. But Im satisfied Mrs J was 
given notice to ensure  any items  were returned  to the car prior to the visit.  
RCI has said it can understand why the collection agent was reluctant to allow  the customer 
to collect the parcel shelf from another address. It said they have  a very tight turn around  in 
which to complete their inspections and they would  not have known if the customer  would 
have been able to collect the shelf within the timeframe they have.  
When speaking with RCI on the phone Mr K said that they were told the parcel shelf  could  
be returned by post and then told it couldnt  be. RCI has said the car was sold at auction  on 
13 July. Ive looked at the contact notes and it notes that remarketing was complete by 17 
July so Im satisfied the car was no longer  within RCI control. There are two calls noted on 
the contact sheet regarding the parcel  shelf. The first is on 19 July, after the sale,  outlining 
the complaint.  During the second call on 24 July Mrs J and Mr K are advised the car had 
been sold so even if the parcel shelf was returned  RCI would have  no use for it. But even if 
this was discussed in detail on 19 July this was still after the car was sold so it seems 
unlikely RCI would have  told Mrs J she could  return  it. 
RCI has agreed to reduce  the charges to a total of £175. This breaks down as - £69 for paint 
work (reduced from £138), £40 for windscreen, £66 for the parcel  shelf (reduced from £200). 
As it was Mrs Js responsibility to make  sure the parcel shelf was in the car, Im satisfied this 
offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN69376053my final decision
My final decision is that RCI Financial Services Limited should reduce  the charges for the 
return of the car to a total of £175. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6937605