K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a new car in November 2017. The deal was financed through  a hire 
agreement with Lex but Mr B says hes had problems  with the car since he got it. The 
following issues were reported:
In February 2018  the dealership attempted to repair a roof leak and there was a problem 
with the media  centre that needed resolving. A DEKRA inspector was booked to inspect the 
repair in March but the vehicle wasnt ready  to be inspected by him or Mr B when they 
arrived and this caused some delay. The inspector thought the repair was satisfactory so 
Mr B took the car back. But he later noticed the headlining was loose; the windscreen 
washer was leaking  into the boot and a trim panel  needed repairing. And when these repairs 
were completed Mr B noticed that black sealant had been smeared over the headlining.
Lex agreed to terminate the finance agreement and the vehicle was handed back in March 
2018, because  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. They also agreed to return  the unused 
portion of the initial six month upfront rental payment; refund 10% of the first four monthly 
rentals (£146.56) and pay Mr B £375  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hed been caused. They said theyd pay for a tow bar and boot liner hed had fitted at a cost 
of £653.95 and they also said theyd  fund the removal of his cherished number plates which  
would have cost a further £140. They thought it was fair for them to refund the part of the 
GAP insurance that hadnt been used.
But Mr B was dissatisfied with this resolution and he therefore  referred  his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Lex had gone far enough as he noted that the vehicle 
had covered a very low mileage and he suggested  this meant Mr B hadnt had much benefit 
from the car. He therefore thought they should increase their offer.  He suggested they 
should pay 8% simple interest on top of the initial rental they were  returning and he thought 
a fairer settlement  was to return 20% of the first four instalments; not 10%. He thought Lex 
should add 8% simple  interest to this payment as well and that it should  refund the GAP 
insurance Mr B had paid for.
But Lex disagreed.  They explained that in addition to the offer they had made,  the 
manufacturer had paid Mr B a further £500  and the repairing retailer a further £300 and they 
didnt think Mr B had been overly  inconvenienced  by the repairs as hed been  provided with 
a courtesy car throughout. They  said theyd  happily refund the GAP insurance  Mr B had paid 
if they were provided  with the invoice but they didnt  think it was fair to pay 8% interest on 
anything they returned as they said this wasnt the way the financial ombudsman service  
usually worked. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Lex but I dont  think theyve done enough to resolve this situation 
and I agree with the investigators  suggested resolution. Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN61852152Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. The relevant law says that the car should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Lex are responsible  and 
should be given  an opportunity to repair the car. 
The roof appears  to have been repaired but legislation does not give a business one chance 
to repair  each separate fault that may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied refers  to the vehicle  as a whole not each separate  component. Indeed the 
more separate  faults - the more likely it is the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality. And here 
there were several faults that developed  subsequently so I think  Lex were right to allow  Mr B 
to reject the car and to end the finance agreement.
In those circumstances wed usually look to the business to consider if any further redress  is 
reasonable. This is to fairly compensate  the consumer for the failure of the car the business 
has been providing. Its clearly not reasonable, for example, to suggest a consumer pays  for 
a car thats in the garage being fixed for a long period. 
Lex has suggested that the additional compensation Mr B has been  given by the 
manufacturer and the retailer should be taken into account and that we should look at the 
total redress when  coming to a decision. But I dont think thats the right approach  here. Ive 
not been given information about  what that compensation is for save to say it was 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  I think thats likely to be the inconvenience  that 
was caused by the dealership making mistakes i.e. the smeared headlining; the ill fitting of 
the headlining and the fact the car roof wasnt ready  for inspection when Mr B arrived. These 
are separate issues and unrelated to the quality of the vehicle Lex were  providing. So I dont 
think its fair for me to consider this compensation when thinking about what is a reasonable 
award here.
Mr B covered a very low mileage in the vehicle. Ive seen that at the time of the roof 
inspection in March,  four months into the hire, Mr B had covered just 1,200 miles in the car. 
He was contracted to complete 10,000  miles  per year so I would have expected him to 
complete about  3,333 miles in the first four months.  I accept however, that he was provided  
with a courtesy car throughout. But given the disruption he experienced I think a 20% refund 
of the instalments he paid is more realistic than the 10% Lex have offered. So Im going  to 
ask Lex to pay that.
The initial rental that needed  to be paid upfront on this agreement was of six monthly 
instalments. Its clear that Mr B should also receive  a portion of this back  as he didnt have 
the car for the full three year term. Lex should therefore make  a pro-rata refund. 
Ref: DRN61852153Lex have disputed whether simple  interest should be charged on this refund and on the 
refund of a proportion  of the instalments. They provided commentary from an ombudsman  
about occasions when it would be appropriate  to charge interest and they said this wasnt  
one of those instances. Im afraid  I disagree. In this particular case and in motoring  cases  of 
this kind, it is usual  for this service  to ask the business to add 8% simple interest, to 
payments that have  been made, to more fairly represent the value  of that money  in present 
day terms. 
There appears to be no dispute  that the GAP  insurance Mr B paid for should  be refunded 
and I agree this is fair in the circumstances. 
Lex have offered to pay for the tow bar and boot lining  costs that Mr B arranged. I think  thats 
fair given  that hes now terminating his finance deal and has had little, if any, benefit from his 
investment. I also think theyve been reasonable when suggesting theyd pay to have the 
cherished number  plate transferred.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to:
allow Mr B to reject his car, cancel the credit agreement and make sure this shows 
as settled on Mr Bs credit file  
return £1577.59  - the portion of the initial rental of £2198.45 that Mr B didnt use. Add 
8% simple interest  to this payment.
refund  20% of the four instalments Mr B made when his car was experiencing 
problems. Add 8% simple  interest per annum. 
pay Mr B £375 for the loss of enjoyment, distress and inconvenience their actions  
have caused him
refund  the payment Mr B made  towards a tow bar and boot liner 
pay for the transfer of Mr Bs cherished  number plate
refund  the GAP  insurance payment of £103.68  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6185215