K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K complains that Financial Administration  Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) delayed  
her switch from an existing self-invested  personal  pension (SIPP) to another  SIPP.
Background
Mr and Mrs K had separate  SIPPs and Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) that were  
administered by Fidelity.  In September 2018 they sought advice from an independent  
financial adviser, S, as they wanted  to move away from self-managing  their pensions and 
use a discretionary fund manager (DFM)  instead.
In order for S to make  the recommendation,  it asked for information about Mr and Mrs Ks 
existing arrangements. However, S had difficulty obtaining all of the information it needed 
because Fidelity didnt  send the appropriate authority form for Mrs K to the SIPP provider. 
Although it received all of the necessary information  relating  to Mr Ks SIPP  and both of their 
ISAs promptly,  it didnt  receive Mrs Ks SIPP information until 22 November 2018.
S instructed Fidelity to sell the assets  held within Mr and Mrs Ks accounts  to cash on 
21 December 2018. Mr and Mrs K instructed S to start the transfer process to the new SIPP  
provider on 10 January 2019.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Fidelity  about the delays,  which  they said had caused the value 
of their accounts to significantly  drop. Mr and Mrs K said S had made the recommendation to 
switch to an alternative provider at a meeting they had in October 2018 but they couldnt 
proceed until S had all the information it had requested.
Fidelity addressed the complaints separately.  It didnt uphold  Mr Ks complaint; this is the 
subject of a separate complaint which has already  been considered  by our service.
Fidelity upheld Mrs Ks complaint, offering her £500  compensation for the delays. However, 
it said it wasnt prepared to compensate Mrs K for the drop in value of her accounts because 
S couldve sold the investments to cash at any time to protect the value.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  accept this and referred their complaint  to our service. Mr K said both 
complaints had to be considered as one. He said he couldnt transfer his funds to the new 
SIPP provider on his own as he and Mrs K were opening a joint SIPP which had a minimum 
investment of £250,000. So, he said both accounts  needed to be transferred at the same 
time. Mr K maintained that Fidelity  was directly responsible for their losses.
Mr and Mrs Ks complaints were considered  by our service separately  as the accounts with 
Fidelity were  separate.
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Ks complaint. He thought Fidelity had caused a delay  of 
14 days, so he said Mrs K should  be compensated for any drop in value to her pension 
account if it had been sold to cash 14 days earlier. The investigator didnt think  this should 
apply to Mrs Ks ISA because S received all the information it had requested for this account  
promptly, and so it couldve been sold to cash at any time.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree  they said they were ready to transfer their pensions  after the 
meeting in October 2018. They also maintained that Mr K had to be compensated for his 
Ref: DRN60464262loss as it was directly linked to the delays. Mr and Mrs K accepted  the investigators view on 
the ISA.
Fidelity didnt agree. It said S gave Mrs K the recommendation  to transfer  before  it received 
the information it was waiting for, so it couldve made the recommendation without it. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to make  a decision.
I contacted Mr and Mrs K to explain why I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
I didnt think Mr and Mrs K wouldve  been in a position to transfer their pension  accounts 
before 8 November  2018, when S had produced Mr Ks recommendation report. And 
I wasnt persuaded the pension accounts wouldve been transferred before the date they 
were actually transferred.  So, ultimately,  I didnt think Fidelity needed to do more to put 
things right. 
Mr and Mrs K said too much focus  was being  put on the recommendation reports  produced  
by S. Mr K maintained that he and Mrs K were  ready  to transfer their accounts  in 
October 2018, and Fidelitys mistakes prevented this from happening.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to be 
asking Fidelity to do more to put things right. I think the £500  offered to Mrs K for the delays 
it caused is fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Fidelity took too long to provide the requested  information to S about 
Mrs Ks pension.  The information requests were made at the same  time, so I think  all the 
information should have been  available to S by the time Mr and Mrs K met with them  on 
10 October 2018. Mr and Mrs K have  previously said this meeting took place on 
8 October 2018, but the recommendation reports produced by S say the meeting took place 
on 10 October 2018, so I have referred to this date in my decision.
Mr K maintains that S wouldve initiated the transfers for each of them immediately  as they 
had given their recommendation in that meeting  and Mr and Mrs K had accepted it. But S 
didnt produce  the recommendation report for Mr K until 8 November 2018 and it produced 
the report for Mrs K on 16 November 2018.  This was before S had received all of the 
information they had requested from Fidelity, which didnt arrive until 22 November 2018.  
This suggests to me that the recommendations werent being held up by the missing 
information.
We asked the adviser why there  was a delay between the meeting on 10 October 2018 and 
producing the recommendation  reports on 8 November  2018 and 16 November 2018, but 
they didnt respond  to this specific point. And in any event, I dont think  a delay of a month is 
unusual  it generally takes time for a full recommendation report  to be put together, 
particularly as S wouldve also been  dealing  with other clients during the same time period. 
Ultimately, I dont think Ive seen enough evidence  to say that the delay in Fidelity providing 
the remaining  information about  Mrs Ks SIPP prevented the transfer from going ahead on 
10 October 2018. Based on what Ive seen, I dont  think S wouldve made the 
recommendations for Mr and Mrs K until 8 November 2018.  I say this because  this is the 
date on which S provided the recommendation report for Mr K, despite having all of the 
Ref: DRN60464263necessary information  to make the recommendation on 10 October  2018.  It follows that 
Mrs Ks recommendation also wouldnt have been  made until then.
Mr K says that I am incorrectly linking the timing of the transfers  with the production  of 
recommendation reports. He says that based  on the information he had initially  provided, S 
had already recommended the specific SIPP provider and DFM to manage their investments 
at the meeting on 10 October 2018. However, he said S wanted to check all the requested 
information from Fidelity before confirming the recommendation and completing the transfer. 
Mr K says he had told S they could send the recommendation reports at a later date. So, he 
thinks it is clear  that the delay caused  by Fidelity  prevented S from confirming the 
recommendation and delayed  the transfer.
Ive considered these  points, but Im not persuaded that S was in a position to initiate the 
transfer of the pension  accounts on 10 October 2018. I appreciate that S may have told 
Mr and Mrs K about the intended recommendation during this meeting, including  the SIPP  
provider and DFM they had chosen.  But S had to meet regulatory requirements when 
making the recommendations, which included setting out all aspects of the recommendation 
and the reasons for it in a suitability report.  S wouldve  then required acceptance of the 
report before  they could  proceed with it. This is to ensure  that both sides  understood the 
recommendations made and to confirm that this was based on an accurate understanding of 
Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances and objectives.  So, Im not persuaded that the accounts 
wouldve been transferred before the reports had been produced.  And as Ive said above,  
I dont think either report wouldve been produced before 8 November 2018.
Although I think S shouldve been in a position to make the recommendations for Mr and 
Mrs K on 8 November 2018, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think the transfer of the 
pension accounts  wouldve  gone ahead before they actually did in January 2019.
I understand that on 22 November 2018 Mr and Mrs K told the adviser not to proceed with 
the transfer of their pension accounts. The reason for this was that Mr and Mrs K were  
aware of the decrease in value, so they were  hoping there would be a stock market bounce 
before Christmas and some of the losses would be recovered. Unfortunately that didnt 
happen, and in December 2018 the investments were sold to cash. In January 2019  Mr and 
Mrs K instructed S to proceed  with the transfer.
With this in mind, Ive had to consider  whether Mr and Mrs K wouldve likely made the same 
decision on 8 November  2018.
According to the final response letters produced  by Fidelity, the combined value of Mr and 
Mrs Ks pension  accounts on 8 October 2018  was £258,152.95. On 8 November 2018 
Fidelity has shown the combined  value had fallen to £250,173.60. So, having already  fallen  
in value between  September and October  2018, the pensions accounts had lost an extra 
£8,000 by 8 November 2018.
Ive considered this carefully, but on balance,  I think Mr and Mrs K wouldve made  the same 
decision they made on 22 November 2018  - that is, to put the transfer on hold and hope the 
stock market bounced back.  For this reason, I dont think the delay caused by Fidelity  has 
actually contributed to the drop in the pension account values. Ultimately, I havent  seen  
enough evidence  to say that Mr and Mrs K wouldve most likely sold the investments to cash 
and transferred the accounts before they actually  did. 
Ref: DRN60464264Mr and Mrs K say this is a big assumption to make. But it is difficult for me to come to any 
other conclusion. Mr and Mrs Ks decision on 22 November 2018  shows  me that despite the 
significant reduction in value  of their accounts,  they were not prepared to crystallise  their 
losses at this point.  They instead decided to stay invested in the hope  the markets  would 
recover, rather than accept their losses and protect the value of their accounts from reducing 
further. So, overall, Im persuaded they wouldve made the same decision for the same  
reasons on 8 November  2018.
Fidelity paid Mrs K £500 for the delay in providing  S with all of the information it requested.  
I think the delay  wouldve  caused Mrs K some worry during the time the information  was 
outstanding given her pension account value was being affected by a downturn in the stock 
market. So, I think that amount  is fair in the circumstances.  I understand this has already 
been paid to Mrs K. So, Im not asking Fidelity  to do any more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046426