K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr K bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr K for accident, sickness, and unemployment cover  and also 
life and critical illness cover  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  Mr K has only 
complained about the accident, sickness and unemployment aspects so this is the PPI that 
has been considering in this complaint. The policy offered  to repay  £509.52 a month  towards 
Mr Ks mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim for accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. At the time, this cover cost £30.39 a month. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a Forklift Operator. He has told us he was entitled to 
three months full sick pay and had some savings. He also says he would have been entitled 
to redundancy  pay. Mr K has said he had a medical  condition at the time of the sale.  
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005 
Mr Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ks representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr K and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN64795072The information Mr K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN64795073The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether BOS gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN64795074Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and BOS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr K know  he had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Reference is made to the PPI on the mortgage application form and the screen shot data 
records indicate that basic information  was obtained  and recorded  from Mr K about  his 
employment and health which were relevant to the application for the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr K knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says it did most likely provide advice during this sale as it seems the policy  was applied 
for at the same time as the mortgage and this took place in branch. Mr K says no advice was 
provided. Looking  at what happened when  BOS sold Mr K the PPI, Im persuaded that it 
most likely provided advice as this sale took place in a face to face meeting..
This means  BOS had to advise Mr K with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr K. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr Ks financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application and information  about  his employment and health were  noted on 
the records. But although information may have been discussed and collected  to try and 
establish whether  Mr K had a need  for the policy  by asking questions about his wider 
circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means  I dont think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. 
No demands and needs statement is available  so it isnt clear if a full health history  was 
discussed. Also it is unclear if Mr Ks long and short term financial needs were considered.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr K given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr K, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Mr K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr K had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Ks ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
Ref: DRN64795075an extended period of time  even  allowing for any redundancy benefits and sick pay 
he says he would have  been entitled  to.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr K.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr K. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ks employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr K has told us about a 
problem with his back in 2000, some  four years before the sale of the PPI, although 
he received no treatment for this. But this doesnt  appear to be caught by the specific 
terms and conditions  on limitations  and exclusions.
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr Ks 
circumstances.
While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  including  the requirement  
that Mr K be disabled or unemployed  for 30 days before he could make  a claim and 
the fact the policy  would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each 
claim, the policy still provided  valuable cover given:
oMr Ks circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
30-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
oThe fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr K be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr K sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BOS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr K was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr K would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr K agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr K Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr K all of the information  he needed 
Ref: DRN64795076about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr K? To what extent did Mr K suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr K. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr K suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr K would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BOS  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr K, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr K has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr K would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr K says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN64795077Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr K had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ks circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr K knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, the evidence available doesnt  show that BOS told him the exact premium at 
the point Mr K applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely Mr K would have been  
told the cost before the policy started  during the meeting about his mortgage. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr K would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOS  made  clear  exactly what Mr K would  get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Ks expectations about what  
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that were 
diagnosed or Mr K knew about that occurred in the 12 months before the start date of 
the policy and that recurred  within 12 months  of the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr K 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr K pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from taking  out the policy. 
Ref: DRN64795078But the evidence  about Mr Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr K says he had a medical condition which 
had caused him to take two weeks off work  in June 2000, this was a few years,  not within 12 
months of the start date of the policy, and there is no evidence to show this condition  had 
recurred. So the policy didnt exclude  cover for the existing medical conditions. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mr K wouldve  been  caught by any of the other  significant  
exclusions. So I still think he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr K might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And Mr K, in 
his circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it out.
BOS may not have  told Mr K that any claim he made would be limited  to a 24-month  period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 24 months  
was a much  longer period  than Mr K would have  received full sick pay for and his 
redundancy entitlement would also have  been significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr K would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce Mr Ks  
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  his sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr K would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr K was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr K 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN64795079Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr K 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr K compensation,  as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr K in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Ref: DRN647950710Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6479507