K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  handled  a claim under his 
motor insurance policy.  
 
background
Mr C was unfortunately involved in a road traffic accident in 2015.  UKI considered  the claim 
and accepted full liability for the accident  on behalf  of Mr C. But UKI didnt communicate this 
to the other party involved  in the accident, and so the other  party filed a claim against Mr C 
at the County Court.
As a result, Mr C said a County Court Judgement (CCJ) was registered against  him in 
2016 which caused him to experience financial  loss, distress and inconvenience. He said the 
CCJ prevented him from being able to take out a mortgage and various other financial 
products. 
The CCJ was registered against him in 2016,  but he only became aware of this in 
October 2018. Mr C contacted UKI to find out why this had happened. He said he also had 
to spend time chasing the County  Court for further information about the CCJ. 
UKI said the CCJ was registered against  Mr C due to its failure to manage  the claim 
adequately. It said it would contact the relevant party to make the CCJ invisible to potential  
future credit providers. This was completed  in November 2018. 
As Mr C was unhappy about the CCJ being registered  against him, he complained to UKI. 
UKI looked into the complaint and wrote to Mr C in November 2018.  It confirmed it had taken 
steps to make the CCJ invisible to future  potential credit providers, and also offered Mr C 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. It also asked for 
evidence of any direct financial losses for consideration.  
Mr C didnt accept the resolution offered by UKI. He said that UKI should increase its offer of 
compensation to take account  of the overall financial impact,  as well as the distress  and 
inconvenience this had caused. So he brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into everything  but didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld.  She 
appreciated Mr Cs distress and inconvenience of finding out that a CCJ had been registered 
against him. But she thought UKIs  offer of £500  to compensate  Mr C was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator. He remained of the view that UKI should increase its 
offer to take account of the distress and inconvenience  this has caused  him and his family, 
and to cover  the financial losses he said hed suffered since 2015.  Our investigator said she 
didnt think Mr C had provided reasonable evidence to show  a direct financial loss as a result  
of the CCJ. So she maintained that £500 was a fair and reasonable offer.  
As no resolution could  be reached, the case was passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ref: DRN66454532Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that I dont uphold  this complaint for similar  reasons to the investigator. I appreciate this 
will disappoint Mr C and so I will explain  why. 
Whats not in dispute is that a CCJ was registered  against Mr C in 2016, as a result of the 
failings of UKI when  handling the claim in 2015.  
What is in dispute is whether UKI has taken  reasonable  steps  to put things right. And based 
on everything I have seen so far, Im in agreement with the investigator that on balance  it 
has. 
has Mr C lost out financially as a result of UKIs error? 
Mr C said he had applied for various financial products since 2015  but was unsuccessful 
during the application  stage. Mr C said this was due to the CCJ. I understand it would have 
been frustrating  for Mr C to be rejected for financial products. But based on the information  
provided, Im not satisfied  Mr C has sufficiently  demonstrated that he suffered a direct 
financial loss purely as a result of the CCJ. 
Our investigator pointed  out that lenders take into account several factors when considering 
whether a potential  customer  meets their lending criteria for a specific  product. Mr C has not 
provided us with evidence to show his applications  for credit were declined  due to the CCJ. 
And based on what Mr C has provided  us, Im not persuaded he has shown that the reason 
for being declined for these financial products was due to the CCJ. 
For example, Mr C evidenced he was rejected for a mortgage in 2015. But the CCJ wasnt 
recorded on Mr Cs credit file until 2016, and the mortgage was declined  prior to this. 
Therefore, Im minded to say its more likely than not that the CCJ had no bearing on the 
outcome of his mortgage application in 2015.
Overall, Mr C hasnt  satisfied me on balance that hes suffered a direct financial loss as a 
result of the CCJ. So I will turn to what I think is a fair amount of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C based on the information  available  to me.  
has Mr C experienced any distress  and inconvenience as a result  of UKIs error?
Mr C became aware of the CCJ when he asked UKI for an update  on his claim in 2018. UKI 
accepted it didnt handle the claim adequately,  which  resulted in the CCJ being recorded 
against him. 
I accept UKI made an error here. But its important to explain that our compensation awards 
are not intended  to punish or discipline a business  for an error it has made.  But rather  to 
recognise the level of distress and inconvenience  the error made had on Mr C. 
Theres no doubt that Mr C would have been  extremely concerned and distressed to find in 
2018 that a CCJ had been registered against him in 2016. But overall, I think  £500 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is because I havent been persuaded that Mr C has 
demonstrated a direct impact as a result of the CCJ. But I do accept him finding that a CCJ 
had been registered against  him due to UKIs  failure to handle  the claim adequately would 
have caused a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN66454533So for the reasons set out above, I think that £500  is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation here and I wont be requiring UKI to do anything else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN6645453