K820x#14complaint
Mr O instructed Claims Thru Us Limited  (CTU), trading as Canary  Claims, to make a claim 
for mis-sold  PPI for him. The claim was successful and CTU invoiced Mr O for their fees.  
The fees remain unpaid  and CTU are taking  legal action to recover  them.
background
Mr O has complained that he only instructed CTU to do a mis-sold PPI claim, and they have 
invoiced him for a successful claim about undisclosed commission.  Because of this, he 
doesnt feel CTU should be paid a fee.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  who found that CTU had 
provided a reasonable service.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He says that not all of his complaints have been 
considered. He thinks that CTU do very little for their money,  and rely on sending refused 
claims to the Financial Ombudsman Service, rather than challenging the PPI provider. He 
also fees that CTU have  been heavy handed  in taking legal action to recover their fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There are two main reasons why a PPI policy  could have been mis-sold. The first is because 
the policy was not suitable  for the customer at the time it was sold. This is the reason most 
people will make a mis-selling claim. 
The second  reason is undisclosed  commission. Commission forms part of the PPI payment. 
Following a High Court decision (Plevin v Paragon) the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  
decided that where  a customer  wasnt  told about the level of commission paid at the time 
PPI was sold, then PPI had been  mis-sold  because  of undisclosed  commission. If the 
undisclosed commission was excessive (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) then the 
excessive amount should be refunded.
When he instructed CTU in August 2018,  Mr O agreed to CTUs terms and conditions. Part 
1.1 of these conditions say the Clients complaint(s)  and/or (but not limited to) claims 
against the Company in respect of alleged mis-selling of Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI), or any unfairly undisclosed commission involved in the sale of your PPI. Mr O signed 
to say he had read and agreed to be bound  by the terms  and conditions.
Mr O instructed CTU to make a mis-sold PPI claim on his behalf. This claim was to be made  
on both suitability and undisclosed commission grounds.
Ref: DRN60460212In October  2018, Mr Os PPI provider  said that PPI had been a suitable  for Mr O when he 
took it out. They also said the commission was more than 50% and they hadnt  told him this. 
Because of this, PPI had been  mis-sold  and Mr O was due a refund of the excessive 
commission. As CTU made the claim as instructed, and the claim was successful, they are 
entitled to charge their fee.
CTU charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, CTUs  fee may be more  or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. 
Just because CTUs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr O doesnt 
make their fee unjustified.  
When a PPI provider  rejects a claim, the process  for appealing this is to send it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  This process  has been put in place by the FCA to make sure 
that any appeal  is independently reviewed. I cant say that CTU are doing anything  wrong by 
following this process.
Mr O doesnt agree  that CTU are due a fee, and he hasnt paid this. Because of this he 
thinks that any attempts  to collect the fee are unacceptable. But CTU can charge their fee, 
so they can also take reasonable steps  to collect an unpaid fee. This includes taking court 
action against  Mr O. I would, however, expect CTU to stop any recovery  action  while Mr Os 
complaint is being  investigated.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint and I agree  that Claims Thru 
Us Limited provided Mr O with a reasonable service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046021