K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  (BMW FS) was mis-sold.
background
Mr H entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in March 2018 to acquire a new car. He did so part-
exchanging his existing car. He says that before acquiring the car he was clear  on the 
specification he wanted and that the most important feature to him was lane guidance as he 
did a lot of motorway  driving. He says he was told the car he was acquiring had lane 
guidance. However, after taking delivery  of the car he was unable to find where the lane 
guidance function was. He contacted the dealer and was then told the car didn't have this 
feature after all.
Mr H says that the service  he received when dealing  with this issue was poor and that he 
was told he didn't have the right to withdraw  from the HPA even though  he raised  the matter 
within 14 days.
Our investigator said that the dealer had accepted that Mr H was given incorrect information 
about the features of the car. He thought  the car provided wasn't as had been  described to 
Mr H at the point of supply and so BMW FS was required to put things right. He noted that 
the dealer made an offer to Mr H to put him back in the position  he would have been in had 
the HPA not been entered into. This included returning the car Mr H had part-exchanged as 
part of the transaction. However, this return didn't  take place.  The part-exchanged car was 
sold in September  2018, and so this solution  was no longer possible.
Our investigator recommended that the HPA be unwound and any adverse information 
regarding this be removed  from Mr H's credit file. He also thought  that Mr H should be 
reimbursed the value of the car he part-exchanged. 
Our investigator's view was initially agreed by both parties. However, BMW  FS then said that 
while it agreed to take back  Mr H's car it didn't agree to refund the part-exchanged vehicle as 
this had finance on it which had been  settled.
Following this, BMW  FS changed its positon and said it no longer accepted that the current  
car could  be rejected. It said that evidence hadn't been provided to show that the only 
reason Mr H acquired the car was the lane guidance. It also noted that since  the complaint 
had been logged the car had been  repossessed by the police. It said Mr H's friend  had later 
taken back the car and was using it, but no payments were being made for it.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
that Mr H asked  for the lane guidance feature and believed this would  be part of the 
car he was acquiring;
lane guidance  was an important feature for Mr H and that had he known the car 
didnt have this he would more likely than not have  chosen  a different car;
Ref: DRN63906652a misrepresentation  had occurred and so Mr H should be allowed to reject  the car 
and have his HPA cancelled with nothing  further  owing. Any adverse information 
regarding this HPA should also be removed from Mr Hs credit file;
Mr Hs deposit should be refunded  and based  on information provided it appeared 
this amount was £0.32;
it wasnt fair to ask BMW FS to refund the amount for the part-exchanged vehicle as 
was subject to existing finance that was settled as part of the transaction;  
Mr H had use of the car while his complaint  was ongoing and I found  it reasonable 
that he remained liable for the payments that should have been made under this 
HPA. However, I found that these payments should be reduced by 10% to reflect the 
loss of enjoyment he received by the car not having the lane guidance he expected;
the issue has caused Mr H distress and inconvenience and I thought it reasonable 
that he be paid £250 compensation because of this.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision.  He didnt think it fair he had to pay the finance for 
the car while his complaint had been ongoing saying he been  constantly in contact asking for 
updates and asking for the car to be taken back. He said that this issue had been  delayed 
through no fault of his and he shouldnt have to pay for this. He said he hadnt been treated  
as he should have been throughout  the complaint process and that he stopped making  
payments when his calls and emails  were not being returned. 
Mr H also felt that his part-exchanged car had been  sold deliberately  so that he couldnt be 
put back in the position  he would have been had he not entered into the new HPA. 
Mr H said he put down  a £2,000 deposit  which he saved despite  his car being  in negative 
equity and felt he deserved to get this money back given the experience he had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I thought a misrepresentation had occurred and 
because of this Mr H should be allowed to reject the car and have his HPA cancelled with 
nothing further  owing. 
Mr H didnt accept that he should pay for the time he had the car given the distress  and 
inconvenience he was caused. While I understand why Mr H is upset  by the experience  he 
has had, I still think it fair that he pays for the time he had use of the car. While the feature 
he wanted wasnt part of the car the car was still usable and so Mr H did have the benefit of 
this. Because  there was no lane guidance I think it right that a discount is applied  to the 
payment to reflect the loss of enjoyment  this caused. As I set out in my provisional decision 
a 10% reduction  should be applied.
Ref: DRN63906653Mr H also says that he should be refunded the £2,000 deposit  he paid. I appreciate the 
points he had made about how he has been treated and the timing of the sale of his part 
exchanged car. However I think the £250  I set out in my provisional decision for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused is reasonable alongside  the rest of the settlement. As the £2,000 
deposit paid was in the main used to cover the cost of the negative equity, I accept the 
deposit payment  was only £0.32  and so it is this amount that should be refunded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited should:
collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
cancel the HPA with nothing further  owning (note point below) and refund Mr Hs 
deposit along with 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse information  from Mr Hs credit file; and
pay Mr H £250 compensation.
Mr H remains  liable  for 90% of the payments that fell due under the HPA, as well as any 
other charges such as excess mileage or damage  that would have fallen due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390665