K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the surrender  penalty  applied to their whole-of-life  policy  by
Countrywide Assured  Plc.
They say this wasnt explained to them when  they took out the policy and that if it had been 
theyd have taken  a straightforward  level-term life policy instead.
background
In my provisional decision of 14 December  2018  I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold 
this complaint. A copy  of that decision  is attached and forms part of this final decision.
Mr and Mrs F were, understandably, disappointed  with my decision.  They  said there  were  
factual mistakes which may have influenced  my decision. 
Countrywide had said that when they took out the policy Mr and Mrs F were both self-
employed with no death-in-service benefits. Mr and Mrs F say thats wrong. Mr F had good 
death-in-service benefits  and Mrs F was a homemaker. The reason for seeking life cover  for 
her was to provide funds for child cover if she died.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Fs recent 
points, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  this decision will be a further  disappointment for Mr and Mrs F, but I havent been 
persuaded to change  my initial conclusions.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs F have said.  The Financial Analysis completed 
by the adviser  in 1991 shows Mrs F as a Scientific Administrator, earning twelve  thousand 
pounds a year. This is also recorded  on the policy application form. Of course its possible 
that Mrs F was taking a career  break at the time but, given the information recorded, I think  
its reasonable to think she intended to return to work.
I accept that Mr F had death-in-service benefits and this is also recorded on the Financial 
Planning Analysis.  But I dont think that necessarily means more life cover  was unsuitable or 
unnecessary.
From the information Ive seen, and from what Mr and Mrs F have told us, Im satisfied that 
their main  priority was to take out more life cover. Their dissatisfaction  with the policy seems 
to have stemmed from the disappointing investment return and the amounts deducted from 
the surrender  value.  
I can understand why Mr and Mrs F were  disappointed but I dont think it means  the policy 
was unsuitable  for them  when they took it out, or that they were misled about  how it worked. 
And the deductions  were made  in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
So, for the reasons already given in my provisional decision, and above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN60679562my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60679563provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the surrender penalty applied to their whole-of-life policy by
Countrywide Assured  Plc.
They say this wasnt explained to them when they took out the policy  and that if it had been theyd 
have taken a straightforward level-term life policy instead.
background
In 1991 Mr and Mrs F took out a unit-linked whole-of-life policy on a joint-life, first-death, basis.  Mr F 
was initially covered for £100,000  and Mrs F for £60,000.  The premium was just over £47 a month.
The way the policy worked was that the premiums  bought units in an investment  fund. The life cover 
was paid for by cancelling units. The idea was that the value of the fund would build up in the early 
years when the cost of life cover was low. But later, if the cost of life cover  was more than the 
premiums paid, the value of the policy would be used to subsidise the cost of life cover and would  
gradually reduce.
The policy was meant, mainly, for protection  but the hope was that the investment  would do well 
enough to build up a surrender value as well.
Mr and Mrs F surrendered the policy  in 2017. They were disappointed with the amount they got and 
thought the surrender factor  was disproportionately high.
Countrywide didnt uphold the complaint.  It explained how the policy worked  and how the surrender  
value had been calculated.
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint she thought the surrender charges had been applied  in 
accordance with the policy  terms and conditions. But she thought  a level-term policy, to end when  Mr 
and Mrs Fs youngest child was 21 years old would  have been  more  suitable for their needs.  So she 
suggested that Countrywide compare the cost of that option with the cost of the whole-of-life policy 
and compensate Mr and Mrs F if theyd lost out.
Countrywide didnt agree. It said:
    Mr and Mrs F had wanted different levels of cover to reflect their respective earnings.
    They  had wanted an index-linked policy so the level of cover increased each year.
    They  had wanted to protect  each other as well as their children. They were self- employed with no 
death-in-service benefits, so cover was needed for their working lives,  not just until their children were 
independent.
    The policy  met all these needs and was flexible  so it could be adjusted  in future if necessary.
    Mr and Mrs F already  had term assurance so they knew that was an option,  but had agreed to 
take this policy.
    The complaint was really  about the surrender charges, which the adjudicator agreed had been 
properly applied.
Ref: DRN60679564    Mr and Mrs F had received annual  statements  showing  the fund value and surrender value and 
how the surrender value was calculated.
The case has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I am minded not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed 
but I hope theyll understand when I explain why.
To uphold a complaint I must be satisfied that its fair to do so. That usually means  finding that the 
business got something wrong and that the consumer  lost out as a result.
In this case I havent seen anything from the time of sale to suggest  this policy wasnt suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Fs circumstances  or stated objective. They  wanted  to protect each other and their family. The 
policy did that. It was affordable and premiums  were invested in a fund which seems appropriate for 
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances.
Theres no evidence  Mr and Mrs F only wanted cover for 21 years. Indeed, they kept the policy for 
longer than that. Given their likely need  for cover over the longer term the whole  of life policy  may well 
have been the most cost effective option for Mr and Mrs F at the time.
Theres no evidence  that Mr and Mrs F didnt  understand the policy. They  already had term assurance 
policies so it seems likely  they would have understood that this policy  was different.  And they received 
policy reviews  and annual statements which explained how the policy  was progressing  and whether  
premiums needed to be increased (or benefit reduced).
Mr and Mrs F complained because  they thought  the surrender penalties applied to the policy were 
disproportionate. But the policy brochure explained that only a proportion of the capital units  would be 
returned on surrender and gave examples of what percentage that would  be depending on how long 
the policy  was kept. Im satisfied that the deduction made was in accordance with the policy  terms and 
conditions, as described in the brochure.
In addition,  in Mr and Mrs Fs case, there was a further reduction  in value. That was because, for a 
while, the cost of life cover  had been higher  than the premiums paid. So accumulation units had been 
cancelled to subsidise the cost.
Mr and Mrs F have said if theyd known of these  penalties at the outset theyd  have chosen a different 
sort of policy. Its difficult to know  exactly what  was discussed in 1991.  I dont suppose surrender  
charges were emphasised  although they were explained in the brochure. But, given that Mr and Mrs 
F were primarily looking for long-term  protection Im not convinced the charges would have been a 
deciding factor.
I can well understand  Mr and Mrs Fs disappointment  when they decided to surrender the policy. They 
may now wish theyd  chosen a different sort of policy. But it wouldnt  be fair to use hindsight when 
making this decision.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time, and their likely understanding of the policy, Im 
not persuaded  it was unsuitable for them. And I cant see that Countrywide  did anything  wrong when it 
worked out the surrender value.
my provisional  decision
Im minded not to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN6067956