K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1998. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr M says FICL  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mr M clear  enough 
information about the policy. 
I say this because  Im not persuaded  FICL  gave  Mr M clear enough information  about the 
policys medical terms.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr M because he had a medical  condition  when he bought 
the PPI. And looking at the policy terms likely in use at the time, I dont think  Mr M wouldve 
been able to claim for disability if his claim was the result of his existing condition. So he 
couldnt have  claimed for everything  I think he likely expected to be able to claim for.
Mr M has told us his condition first occurred a few years before he took the card  and hes 
told us he was off work due to this condition at that time. Hes said it caused  more problems 
around the time he took out his card - although  he hasnt been specific enough  for me to say 
whether those later problems occurred before or after he took out his card. 
FICL has said it believes Mr M suffered  from the condition at the start of the policy. And Ive 
thought carefully  about everything else FICL has said - including about there being nothing 
to suggest how severely  the condition affected Mr Ms ability  to work, the possibility that 
Mr M might never have  needed to claim for this condition, and how FICL would like more 
evidence about  whether  the condition was ongoing and its impact on Mr Ms ability to work.
But whatever the exact nature of its impact in the past, I think Mr Ms condition meant it was 
possible he might  in future want to claim for disability that was the result of his condition. And 
although he couldve claimed for other  conditions he wasnt  suffering from, I think  the PPI 
wouldve been much  less attractive  to Mr M if hed realised he couldnt claim for any time off 
work arising  from his known health  issue.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr M wouldve bought  the policy  if FICL  had 
given him enough information about  it. So I think Mr M has lost out because  of what  FICL did 
wrong.
Ref: DRN64766952putting things right
I understand Mr Ms card account is closed. FICL should put Mr M in the financial position 
hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr M would have owed when he closed his card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until the refund  is paid.  The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mr M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress paid to Mr M by the lender  
if the commission redress relates to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can reclaim the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6476695