K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about two instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal  Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans), (SL),  which  he said were  unaffordable.
background
Mr H was given two instalment loans  by SL in July 2018. A summary  of the loans taken  out 
by Mr H is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 1/7/18 9/7/18 £500  6 monthly repayments  of  
£158
2. 15/7/18 22/8/18 £300   9 monthly repayments of 
£66.60
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She noted that there  
were no issues with repayment of the loans and both had been settled early. She also said 
that Mr Hs declared disposable  income for both loans was enough to meet  the scheduled 
loan repayments.
Mr H disagreed. He said that he had a number of loans with other lenders which  would have 
been evident from his credit  file. He said that SL should have checked his bank  statements.  
If it had done so, it would have seen  evidence of his gambling problem.  He was concerned 
that some  of his other complaints with this service  were upheld and some  were not.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Mr H has referred to his other  complaints with this service. But we assess each 
complaint on its own merits. And it isnt always appropriate to compare the outcomes  of each 
complaint without a detailed  understanding of the specific facts of each  complaint.
When SL lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
SL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr H could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Hs 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These  factors  include:
Ref: DRN62072032the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that SL was required to establish  whether 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
SL did a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr H. It asked  him for details of his income  and 
expenditure. Mr H declared his monthly income  as £1,600 and his expenditure as £550. And 
SL increased Mr Hs declared  expenditure slightly in its assessment to reflect what  it had 
seen in its credit checks. I can also see that SL checked Mr Hs housing status. From the 
information SL gathered, I can see that Mr H paid rent. 
SL also checked  Mr Hs credit file before  agreeing  to the loans. SL has provided  this service 
with a summary of its credit checks.  It said that there  were  no bankruptcies,  individual 
voluntary arrangements,  debt management  plans  or county court judgements.  SL also said 
that there  were no payday loans taken in the previous three  months and no active credit 
accounts in arrears in the previous six months. So I cant see there was any adverse 
information on SLs checks that I think should have caused additional concerns to SL. 
Mr H has also provided this service  with a copy of his credit report. I cant  see there  were  
any outstanding  short term loans on the credit  report when Mr H took out Loans 1 and 2.  
Ref: DRN62072033I think that the checks SL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were proportionate. And 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that SL had a reason at the time of Loans  1 and 2 to 
question the accuracy  of the information Mr H provided. The repayments that Mr H needed 
to make on Loans 1 and 2 were relatively modest compared to the income that he declared 
to SL. The highest monthly repayment  for Loans 1 and 2 was £158. I dont think the 
repayments were so large that its obvious  they wouldve  caused  Mr H financial difficulty.
So given Mr Hs repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for SL to ask 
him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr H provided or the information  SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think SL was wrong  to give Loans  1 and 2 to Mr H.
Ive seen Mr Hs bank  statements and note in particular in the month before Loan 2 that he 
was often spending hundreds of pounds on gambling. I dont want  to downplay Mr Hs 
problems in any way, but at the time of Loan 2, I dont think SL needed to go as far as trying 
to independently verify Mr Hs financial information by asking  to see his bank statements, for 
example. That would have been  disproportionate at that stage of the lending relationship. So 
unless Mr H had disclosed his gambling problem, I cant  say that SL would have found out 
about it with the proportionate checks it carried out which I think were  reasonable. 
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. I realise this outcome will disappoint 
Mr H. But I hope he can understand my reasons  for making this decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207203