K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Publ) (SH)  asked him to sign an Anti-
Money Laundering  mandate  to certify  that he had complied with the Money Laundering 
Regulations in relation  to each designated account held.
background
Mr F is a licensed insolvency practitioner. He held a number of accounts with SH in relation 
to his position as an insolvency practitioner (for instance, as Liquidator  of a company). Mr F 
says that the realisations held in the account  were  held by him in his professional  capacity 
on behalf of creditors  generally and that he, as the officeholder, was the banks customer.
In September  2016 SH asked Mr F to sign an AML account certification. Mr F wasnt  happy 
with the way in which  the document  was drafted and felt that the request was unnecessary 
because the accounts belonged to him.
Mr F declined to sign the certification. SH advised Mr F that he had an obligation to confirm  
that he was undertaking identity verification and customer due diligence  in relation to all 
client accounts he held with the bank.
Mr F asked  the bank to provide him with the legal basis for its request. He says the bank 
didnt provide this so he continued to decline to sign the certification. In January  2018 SH 
asked Mr F to seek alternative banking arrangements and advised  him that all of his 
accounts would be closed.
Mr F is unhappy  that the banks actions took up his professional time and the closure of his 
accounts caused him inconvenience. 
Mr F wants SH to provide him with a written legal  basis supporting its request and 
requirements. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the bank had explained why it 
required the certification  and had quoted  the regulations it was relying on.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said the accounts  held at SH were personal to him in his capacity  as 
officeholder and that the bank hadnt provided  any evidence to support the basis  of its 
request in the form of an AML requirement  or some  other legal basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at whether SH has made  an error and/or whether it has dealt with Mr Fs 
complaint fairly. Its not within my remit to interpret the Money Laundering Regulations or to 
say whether any particular regulation applies to Mr F in his capacity as an office holder. Nor 
am I able to require the bank to alter its practices  and procedures.
Mr F says he hasnt  been provided  with the legal  basis for the banks requirements that he 
sign the AML certification.  Ive looked  at all of the correspondence which the bank  sent to Mr 
F to see whether it explained the rationale  for its request.
Ref: DRN68027322In its letter  dated  9 December 2016,  SH said it recognised that Mr Fs accounts were  
personal to him. But it also said that this was unrelated  to the issue of customer due 
diligence. It explained  that Mr F was an insolvency  practitioner under Regulation  3(6) of the 
Money Laundering  Regulations and was therefore a relevant person for the purposes of 
the regulations.  It also explained that under Regulation 17, it could rely on the customer due 
diligence undertaken by a relevant person  (i.e. Mr F) provided that the relevant person  had 
given consent  for the bank to have  access to the customer  due diligence he/she had 
undertaken.
In its letter  dated  18 April 2017, SH said that during 2016 it reviewed its anti money 
laundering and due diligence processes  in relation  to designated insolvency practitioner  
accounts. The bank  explained that it had obligations under the Money  Laundering  
Regulations in relation  to all accounts which it operated. It also explained  that in the case of 
designated insolvency  practitioner accounts,  the bank was allowed to rely on the verification 
and due diligence checks undertaken  by the insolvency practitioner, but that such  reliance 
was subject to the bank  having obtained  confirmation (in the form of an AML certification) 
from the insolvency practitioner that various  aspects of the Money Laundering Regulations 
had been complied with.  
In its letter  dated  19 February 2018,  SH said that the Money Laundering Regulations  placed  
an obligation  on the bank to know (or to be able to obtain) the identities  of individuals for 
whom funds are being held in an account with the bank, and to undertake due diligence in 
respect of such individuals. 
Based on the correspondence Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied that SH has provided a 
sufficient explanation of why it required Mr F to sign the AML certification. It has quoted  the 
relevant regulations in its correspondence,  which in my view provides the legal basis of its 
request.  
I understand the point which Mr F makes regarding the personal nature of the accounts.  And 
I acknowledge that the letter dated 19 February  2018 is unhelpful  in the context  of Mr Fs 
professional role in that it refers to the need to know the identity of individuals for whom  
funds are being held in an account.  On one analysis, the funds are being held in the account 
to Mr Fs order in his capacity as office holder. The funds  are not held for or on behalf  of his 
clients. I can see, based on this analysis, why Mr F feels that the banks  request  that he sign 
the AML certification is unnecessary.
On another analysis,  and from the banks  perspective, the funds in the account  have 
originated from somewhere. The funds may comprise realisations from insolvency estates 
but equally, they may comprise monies on account provided by Mr Fs client(s) for the 
purposes of covering professional fees and disbursements. So I can see why the bank would 
take the view that AML certification is necessary.
Ultimately, and whilst it may be the case that Mr F disagrees with the banks interpretation  of 
the regulations  and with its requirements in relation  to the AML certification, the request 
made of Mr F by the bank was made in accordance with a commercial  decision which  it has 
taken as a result of its interpretation of the regulations and industry  guidance. 
I understand Mr Fs frustration at what has happened but taking all of the circumstances of 
the complaint  into account Im unable to say that the bank has acted unreasonably or that it 
hasnt dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly.
Ref: DRN68027323my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802732