K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. Although FICL didnt actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs G was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 2002. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Gs complaint didnt think FICL  explained  the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Mrs G. And he didnt think Mrs G wouldve bought the 
policy if it had. FICL  disagrees, so Mrs Gs complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs G enough  clear information about the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if FICL had given Mrs G the clear 
information she needed she wouldnt have bought the policy.
Its likely  the policy Mrs G was sold wouldnt have covered her for any medical condition she 
had when she bought it. Mrs G says she had a significant medical condition when she was 
sold the policy. Mrs G says that shed been  diagnosed with the condition following an 
examination by her doctor in 1999.
Ive looked at the notes FICL  has sent us about  its investigation into Mrs Gs complaint. FICL 
says it was told by Mrs G about her medical  condition. But FICL  says it sent Mrs G 
documentation after the sale which explained  that any medical  conditions  she already had 
were not covered but that this was only one aspect  of the benefits and other benefits were 
available. 
As Ive said,  I think its likely the PPI excluded  cover for Mrs Gs known medical condition. 
Mrs G has told us about her condition from the beginning and seems to have been 
consistent in having done so with FICL as well. And I think the medical  condition  had a 
likelihood of significantly affecting her in later life and she would have been aware of this. So, 
on the basis of this and the information  Ive seen  (which in terms of FICLs own investigation 
has been quite  limited),  I think  its likely the exclusion in the policy wouldve mattered to Mrs 
G when she bought the PPI. 
There was no information about this exclusion on the application  form Mrs G signed when 
she was sold the PPI policy. And I think sending her a document after the sale is not drawing 
the exclusion properly  to her attention at the time of the sale.  So I havent  seen anything to 
show FICL did enough to make this exclusion clear to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN60319202If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Mrs G wouldve gone 
ahead with the policy if shed known she wasnt likely to have been  covered if shed needed  
time off work because  of her known  medical  condition. 
I think Mrs G has lost out because of what FICL has done wrong and so it should put things 
right.
putting things right
if Mrs Gs store card account is still open:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs G would owe on her card if the policy hadnt been  
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owes  and what  she would  
have owed.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs G 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 8% 
a year) on the extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest  until the point 
when Mrs G wouldve owed FICL something on her card.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A and B.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs G that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
if Mrs Gs store card account is now closed
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs G would  have  owed  when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mrs G 
wouldve owed when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the 
Ref: DRN60319203refund.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month  without PPI   Mrs 
G paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest (at 
8% a year)  on the extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs G wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card.
D.FICL should tell Mrs G what it has done  to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs G that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL  to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give  
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax FICL have taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6031920