K820x#14complaint
Mr W says HFC Bank Limited (HFC) mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy to cover  his credit card repayments.
background
Mr W applied  for a credit card by post in 1993.  At the same time he took out a PPI policy  to 
cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.74 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ws 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 5% of the outstanding balance  for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr W was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld  because he thought  there 
wasnt enough information to show Mr W didnt understand he had a choice in taking  the 
policy and thought it wouldve provided  a useful benefit.
Mr W disagrees. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mr W completed a postal application  for a credit card. 
Its been over 20 years  since the sale so understandably HFC havent been about  to give us 
a copy of Mr Ws application  form or a sample  of what  was used at the time. But it has given 
us a copy of an application form from after Mr W applied for his credit card. 
On this application form the customer was given the option to take PPI by ticking a box in the 
PPI section. I appreciate  I cant say for sure whether  this is the application Mr W wouldve 
seen but I think  its likely he wouldve completed something similar and that he had PPI 
because he selected  to take it rather than it being added automatically.  And I think its likely 
that if Mr W hadnt selected to take PPI he wouldve questioned why it showed up on his 
credit card statements.
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think HFC advised 
Mr W to take PPI. What this means is that HFC didnt  recommend PPI to Mr W, it just gave 
him information about PPI and it was up to Mr W to assess his need in this regard. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI.
I dont know if HFC did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if HFC did 
give all the information  Mr W needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know about 
HFC policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN63704672It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr W says he wasnt  entitled to any sick leave and had no other 
means of making his credit card payments if he couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. The policy wouldve covered his credit card payments if he 
couldnt work  for up to 12 months per claim, so I cant see how knowing this information 
wouldve put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr W and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr W on 
the policy, I think he wouldve still taken  out the policy as it was of value to him.
Which means HFC doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against HFC Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370467