K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds service in 
connection with his pet insurance policy.
Reference to Red Sands  includes its agents.
background
Mr R took out a lifetime  pet policy with Red Sands in 2014.  He claimed in 2017 after his dog 
needed an operation. Red Sands declined part of his claim and added an exclusion to the 
policy for anything relating  to the digestive  system. Mr R complained about that and other 
aspects of Red Sands  service including that he had to make a co-payment and because his 
premium had increased.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2018.  For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
Red Sands claim decision
Mr Rs dog needed surgery after eating  peaches but he didn't pass  the stones. Whilst  under  
surgery the vet discovered the dog had another serious condition and removed his spleen. 
Red Sands  saw in the vets notes that the dog had been treated for eating foreign bodies  in 
2011 and again in 2013. So it said that eating foreign bodies was a pre-existing condition  
which wouldn't be covered by the policy. It was happy to pay the costs  of the issue  with the 
spleen. So it paid half of the claim after deductions.  
The foreign  bodies that the dog had eaten  - requiring surgery to remove  - were  peach 
stones, which were  inside peaches when the dog ate them. In other words the foreign 
bodies were  inside  food.  I don't  think thats  the same  as a dog eating other non-digestible 
items. So I don't think that links to the earlier occasion in 2011  when the dog had eaten 
some bedding. 
Also, I noted that the other time the dog had eaten a foreign body, in 2013, was when it had 
eaten cake dough which had cake decorations in it. I don't find it unusual for a dog to eat 
cake dough, and the dog clearly didn't realise that the decorations in it weren't edible. I don't 
think that means the dogs predisposed to eating indigestible things. So I don't think  its fair 
to say that the dog required surgery in 2017  because of a pre-existing condition.
It follows that I don't think it was fair for Red Sands to decline  part of the claim. So I think it 
should reassess the claim and pay those elements it declined initially  in line with the 
remaining policy terms, excesses, co-payments  and limits. If Mr R has already paid the vets 
bills Red Sands should add interest  to any amount it pays him now at a rate of 8% simple 
from the date Mr R paid the bills to the date Red Sands reimburses  him.
exclusion
Ref: DRN63774012After it declined Mr Rs claim Red Sands added an exclusion to the policy excluding any 
claim relating to the digestive system. It said that if Mr R had told it when he bought the 
policy that his dog had previously been  treated for eating foreign bodies then it would have 
added the exclusion  to the policy at that point. Essentially Red Sands is saying that Mr R 
didn't disclose relevant information.  But I don't think thats fair.
It might be fair for an insurer to add an exclusion for a condition after a consumer has taken 
out a policy. But in order for it to do so I would expect to see the following:
 the insurer  has asked clear questions about applicable conditions, signs and 
symptoms when offering the policy;
 the consumer  hadn't taken reasonable care to answer  those questions; and
 the exclusion relates to the clinical condition that wasn't disclosed.
But as far as I'm aware Red Sands  didn't ask Mr R any questions  about anything his dog 
might have been treated for. Instead it asked him to read a set of presumptions. So I don't 
think Red Sands asked a clear question.  And its not fair to say that Mr R didn't take 
reasonable care to answer questions he wasn't asked.
The presumptions Red Sands asked Mr R to agree to include the following:
You accept that we reserve the right to apply an exclusion to your policy  in respect of any 
illnesses, injuries,  symptoms or conditions that we subsequently learn were pre-existing or 
existing at the time  you took out your policy with us or within  the 14 day Waiting  Period as is 
defined in the Policy  Terms.
But as I've already said I don't think eating food, which  contains  stones,  is the same  as 
eating bedding, which is what Mr Rs dog had done in 2011 prior to him buying the policy.  
And the exclusion its applied, which relates to The Digestive System, goes far beyond the 
actual event that the dog had previously been treated for. And that exclusion would also 
exclude treatment  for injuries through trauma etc. And I don't think  thats  fair.
Red Sands  indicated that its only applied  the exclusion  it would have applied  if Mr R had 
told it about his dogs previous treatment for eating  bedding. But as it didn't ask him clear 
questions it didn't specifically ask him to disclose  anything. And I think  the onus is on 
Red Sands  as the insurer to ask clear questions  and not on a consumer to identify what  an 
insurer might  like to know.  
Also, as Red Sands didn't ask clear questions  it didn't tell Mr R about the extent of any 
exclusions it might  apply  at the outset.  If it had asked Mr R a clear question, and then told 
him the extent of the exclusion that it would apply, I think its likely Mr R would have made  a 
different decision about  whether he wanted the policy  or not. So I don't think the exclusion 
its applied is fair. It follows that I think Red Sands should remove  the broad  exclusion of 
anything connected  to Mr Rs dogs digestive system.
senior pet policy
When Red Sands settled Mr Rs claim,  it deducted  20% from its settlement as a co-payment. 
Mr R said he was unaware  of the requirement  to make a co-payment. Red Sands  told Mr R 
that as his dog was now over eight years old it was insured under its senior pet policy. And 
that required a 20% contribution from Mr R towards the costs of the claim. It said it explained  
this in its policy documents  and renewal letters. 
Ref: DRN63774013I can see that, from the outset, Mr Rs policys key facts have said that once a dog is over 
eight years old then a co-payment  is payable. The key facts also advise Mr R to refer to the 
policy schedule for the amount of co-payment  applicable to each claim. And Ive noted that 
Mr Rs policy  schedule says that the co-payment  level would be 20%.  So I think Red Sands 
did enough to bring the co-payment  requirement  to Mr Rs attention.  It might  also help if I 
explain that its not unusual for insurers to require a co-payment for older  pets and we don't  
think its unfair, as the risk to insurers grows significantly  as pets age.
So I don't think  it was unfair for Red Sands to reduce  its settlement by the applicable  co-
payment. That said,  as I've said above Red Sands told Mr R that his dog was now insured  
under its senior pet policy. That implies that the policy is different to its standard policy. But 
as far as I can see, the policy is a standard  one, and I can't find any reference anywhere in it 
to it being a senior  policy. So although I think it was fair for Red Sands to apply a 
co-payment, I don't think its explanation that the dog was insured under a senior policy was 
helpful. 
premiums
Mr R has also complained  that the cost of his policy has increased. Given the significant  
price rise I can understand his concerns that the increases arent fair. But were  not the 
industry regulator and generally its not my role to tell an insurer  what  price  it should charge 
for the risks it covers, nor do I decide  what factors it should take into account when 
assessing those  risks. And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly, 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  When  deciding  how much to charge 
for their policies they will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go 
about that in its own way. So, when  deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I 
look to see if its treated them the same as it would other consumers with similar 
circumstances.
In response to Mr Rs complaint Red Sands  told him about some  of the factors it considers. 
Those include factors that will affect  all its customers, which are things like: the increasing  
costs of vets fees and increasing frequency of claims. And its assessment of those factors 
will affect all its customers in a similar  way. 
Then there are other specific factors that will affect  Mr R and those with dogs who present 
similar specific risks.  And Red Sands has said those include things like the dogs age, breed, 
and the risk of recurring conditions. And as well as those things Red Sands has also told 
Mr R that its also factored into his premium  calculation  the number and costs of the claims 
that hes made. And that's  something its entitled to do.
 
As I've said above, each insurer will have its own way of calculating the factors it considers 
and its assessment of risk associated with each of those factors. Ive looked at Red Sands 
calculations of Mr Rs premiums to see how those have changed. Those  details are 
commercially sensitive,  so I can't share them  with him. But having reviewed Red Sands 
premium calculations I can see the premium it charged took into account  relevant factors 
and how those have  changed. And I think its worked out Mr Rs premium  as it would do for 
its other customers with similar circumstances. I can confirm I haven't  seen  anything  to 
indicate that Red Sands singled Mr R out or in any way targeted  him individually.  So, 
Ref: DRN63774014although I can understand why Mr R found  the price rises difficult to bear,  I dont think it 
calculated his premium  unfairly.
developments
Red Sands  didn't agree with my provisional decision. It said that Mr R hadn't  disclosed that 
his dog had eaten bedding and cake dough before he took his policy  out. It added that it 
didn't feel it is fair to expect a dog to know what is food and what  is material, or in fact know  
that there  would be a stone in the peach . And that Mr R would have known that his dog was 
prone to eating things, so it says he should have disclosed it at the time he bought  the 
policy. 
Mr R also replied to my provisional decision.  Amongst  other  things he told us that sadly his 
dog had fallen  very ill and died. He felt compensation may be warranted for his distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of Red Sands handling of his claim and complaint. He said the 
matter had been going on for a long time and a vet had told him that his dog hadn't  had a 
pre-existing condition. And he felt that but for flaws and ambiguity in Red Sands documents 
that distress and inconvenience  could  have been  avoided. He also wondered  whether other 
policyholders had been treated unfairly  by Red Sands.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
Red Sands  said that Mr Rs dog was prone  to eating foreign bodies. But I don't think  thats  
right. As I've said above, although it had eaten bedding some years ago, the two other 
occasions happened when it ate food, on one occasion that food included  cake  decorations 
and the other time he had swallowed a peach  stone. I don't  think  that means  the dog was 
prone to eating  foreign bodies.  So I don't  think the dog had a pre-existing condition. And 
Im satisfied that it's fair to direct Red Sands to pay the full claim for Mr Rs dog's surgery.
Red Sands  added that, as Mr R was aware his dog was prone  to eating foreign bodies, he 
should have disclosed  that when buying the policy. But as I said in my provisional decision, 
its Red Sands responsibility to ask clear questions to establish information thats relevant 
before it issues its policies. But it didn't do that. So I don't think  Mr R failed to disclose 
anything. And I remain satisfied that it was unreasonable for Red Sands to have applied  the 
exclusion for anything  related  to the digestive system, so it should remove  that.
Mr Rs told us that, while weve been  considering his complaint, his dog has sadly died. Its 
not clear if Red Sands  declined any claims for treatment  based on its unfair policy exclusion. 
If it did Mr R might wish it to ask it to reconsider those  based on this decision. But I was 
pleased to hear that Mr Rs financial situation didn't prevent his dog from receiving  the 
treatment it required.  
Mr Rs suggested that Red Sands should compensate him for his distress  and 
inconvenience. Compensation  was something I considered  when arriving  at my provisional 
decision. But I noted that the vet had referred  to the dog eating  a foreign body, rather than 
peach stones,  and the vets notes also refer to the dog eating bedding and cake  decorations 
previously. So initially at least I can understand why Red Sands refused  the claim, as it felt 
Ref: DRN63774015the dog had a history  of eating foreign bodies. Although, having considered all the evidence I 
don't think  that was fair.
Also, I acknowledge that the claim has taken us far longer than we would like to conclude, as 
we looked closely  into the issue of the pricing of pet premiums generally. But as much  of that 
delay was beyond  the control of Red Sands I don't think  it would be fair for hold Red Sands 
at fault for it.
Mr R added that Red Sands documentation  added to his distress and inconvenience. I said 
in my provisional decision that Red Sands  reference to a senior pet policy wasn't helpful. 
But I don't  think  it put Mr R into a worse  position.
So, while I agree that Red Sands handling  of the matter could have been better  I don't  think 
that compensation is warranted.
Finally Mr R has queried whether others have been  affected in a similar  way. That may or 
may not be the case. But we look at each complaint thats brought to us individually and 
come to our conclusions on what we think is fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of the case.  So Im or going  to consider in this decision whether or not others  
have been affected in a similar manner to Mr R.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay the claim for surgery and pay those  elements it declined  initially in line with the 
remaining policy terms, excesses, co-payments  and limits.  If Mr R has already paid 
the vets bills Red Sands should add interest  to any amount it pays  him now at a 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date Mr R paid the bills to the date Red Sands  
reimburses him.
remove the broad exclusion  of considering  claims with respect  to Mr Rs dogs 
digestive system.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6377401