K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard  (Barclays), have  
rejected a claim hes made to them under section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974) (s75).
background
In December 2017 Mr T purchased some flight tickets and travel insurance for his nephew. 
He made  the booking  using his Barclaycard, through a travel  company Ill call X. The trip 
required his nephew to travel through two European airports  and Mr T says he was 
concerned that his nephew would need  an airport transit visa. But X sent him an email  with 
screen shots that explained this wasnt necessary. Unfortunately, his nephew was prevented  
from flying, when he arrived at the airport to commence travel  from Africa, as the authorities 
said he didnt have  a valid transit  visa.
So Mr T complained to Barclays. He said, as the finance provider, they had a joint 
responsibility with the merchant  under  s75 for the problem. He wanted them to provide a 
refund.
But Barclays  rejected  his s75 claim as they said theyd  conducted  their own investigation 
and didnt think a visa was required.  They couldnt  understand  why Mr Ts nephew  hadnt 
been allowed  on board  but suggested  there was no evidence X had made a mistake.  They 
also explained that for a s75 claim to be successful there needed  to be a direct link between 
the supplier, creditor  and the debtor and here, they explained, there wasnt, as Mr Ts adult 
nephews tickets were  in his name and hed broken the link.
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  considered  his complaint. 
She agreed  with Barclays and explained  that the debtor, creditor, supplier  link had been  
broken because two additional parties  were  involved; the travel company and Mr Ts 
nephew. So a s75 claim couldnt be successful. She also considered  whether Barclays could 
have completed a chargeback request. But she explained that for this to succeed Mr T would 
have had to submit his request within 120 days and he hadnt.  So the investigator didnt think  
Barclays needed to take any further  action.
But Mr T disagreed. He said he had originally complained to Barclays  within 120 days but 
theyd told him he had to raise it with X first. He insisted X had been  wrong  to send him an 
email suggesting  a visa wasnt  required and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T and I can see this has been a frustrating incident for him and 
his nephew, but Im afraid I dont think he has a valid claim under either s75 or the relevant 
chargeback scheme.  Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN66403502board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme or a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
s75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So s75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
But for the creditor, Barclays in this case, to have  that liability it needs  to have a relationship 
with the supplier of the goods  and here it hasnt, as the payment was made to X and not the 
airline.
So the requisite link required for a s75 claim,  between the debtor, the creditor  (Barclays) and 
the supplier (the airline) has been  broken and Mr T therefore has no claim under s75. 
Although this doesnt, of course  prevent him from raising a claim in the courts  against  X 
himself.
chargeback
The chargeback scheme  is intended  to help resolve  disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated  not by Barclays but by Visa and the scheme operator 
sets strict  rules under which claims can be made.
One of those rules  is that claims need  to be made  to the creditor  (Barclays)  within  120 days.
But to settle the dispute there has to be a dispute  and this couldnt be the case until Mr T 
completed his discussions  with X and was told they couldnt do anymore. And unfortunately 
by the time this process  had completed  and Mr T referred  his complaint to Barclays,  it was 
April 16 and Mr T, and Barclays,  were  out of time.
So Im afraid  that I dont  agree Mr T has a valid claim under s75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)  
or Barclays should have  processed a chargeback. Should Mr T not accept this position he is, 
of course, still entitled to pursue a claim through the courts.
Ref: DRN66403503my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6640350