K822xcomplaint
Mr A says he got poor service from Aon UK Limited after he contacted it about the renewal 
of his motor insurance  policy.
 
background 
Mr A had two conversations with one of Aons advisors on 5 March 2019. Mr A said cover on 
his current policy had ceased at midnight the previous day. He wasnt sure if he wanted  to 
stay with the same insurer,  but offered to pay for a new policy with it. He said he would 
cancel it within the cooling-off period if he managed to find a better one elsewhere.
The advisor told Mr A during both calls that he had time to shop around for other  policies. 
She said cover would be in place  until close of business on 7 March 2019, so it could be 
renewed on that date or lapsed. Mr A rang on that date to renew the policy, only to find that 
no cover  had been in place  for three days. 
Aon refunded the administration charge of £30 for setting up Mr As new policy.  It also 
offered him £70 for inconvenience. He didnt think that was enough.  He said driving 
uninsured could have led to very serious consequences.  Aon said it couldnt take into 
account something that hadnt happened.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr As complaint. She thought Aons  offer was fair. Mr A 
said hed had to ask for the administration charge to be removed. He said he was told the 
wrong amount  for that at first. He also said Aon hadnt replied to an email from him about   
cancelling the new policy. The investigator contacted Aon. It confirmed the sum payable  for 
time on cover should Mr A wish to cancel the policy.  It also raised its offer by £30. The 
investigator thought  it should have given Mr A the details he needed earlier, but she also 
thought its new offer was reasonable. Mr A disagreed,  so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr A was so upset to find that that no cover had been in place  for three  days. I 
agree that it could  have led to very serious  consequences. Fortunately, it didnt. I think it was 
reasonable for Aon to say that it couldnt  compensate Mr A for something that didnt happen. 
We think that approach  is fair and reasonable.
In my opinion, the documents on the file show that Aon usually responded to Mr As emails.  
But it accepts that it should have sent a prompt reply to his email about  cancelling  the new 
policy. It extended the cooling-off period  to allow him time to make a decision. 
I agree  that not replying promptly to Mr A was poor service on Aons part. Mr A may not have 
been as upset as he was about that had he not already faced poor service from Aon. But I 
think the increased sum offered  by Aon is reasonable. The total amount on offer is in line 
with the sum I would have required Aon to pay Mr A had it not already made the offer.  
I know Mr A is bound to be disappointed with my decision, but I think  Aon has made a 
reasonable settlement offer in an attempt to deal fairly with his complaint.
Ref: DRN64683242my final decision
My final decision is that Aon UK limited should  settle  this complaint as it has proposed  to do, 
by paying Mr A £100 compensation  as well as refunding the £30 administration  fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6468324