K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the advice and service he received  from WPS Financial Group Limited 
in 2014 and 2015. 
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr S was a deferred  member of a defined  benefits occupational  pension scheme. 
He also had an additional voluntary contribution  (AVC) plan, a personal pension  plan and a 
stakeholder pension plan. In the run-up to turning 65, Mr S engaged the services of WPS. 
He met with WPS in December 2014  and February 2015. WPS made a number of 
recommendations with regards  to Mr Ss pension arrangements.
Mr S subsequently moved his four pensions to a flexible  income  drawdown  personal pension 
with provider A. The combined  transfer value for the four pensions  was a little over 
£400,000. A significant proportion of this related  to Mr Ss defined benefits  occupational 
scheme. The proceeds of the four transfers were  invested across  a number of funds.
In 2016, Mr S complained to WPS. His complaint covered a number of areas. His central 
concern was that he didnt think the funds  he invested  in through  provider A were  suitable 
given his attitude to risk. He also thought the fees he ended  up paying were  not properly 
disclosed during  the advice  process.  He was concerned that a portfolio rebalancing exercise 
in late 2015 resulted in the purchase  of funds he no longer wanted to be invested in. And he 
was unhappy  with the overall service provided  by WPS which,  he says, was poor and not in 
line with what had been agreed. 
WPS paid Mr S compensation  for the error  in rebalancing his portfolio. But it didnt think  it 
had done anything else wrong. Mr S referred  his complaint to us. An adjudicator looked at 
the complaint  and originally agreed with Mr S that the portfolio  had been  too risky for him, 
although he didnt  think WPS  had done anything else wrong.  Following submissions from 
WPS about its portfolio  construction process,  the adjudicator changed his mind and thought 
the business hadnt done anything wrong.  
The complaint was then referred  to an ombudsman who included  in his investigation  the 
transfer of benefits  from Mr Ss occupational  pension scheme,  even though this hadnt  been 
specifically mentioned in Mr Ss original complaint. He upheld the complaint. WPS thought 
this service shouldnt  look at the transfer  given Mr S hadnt previously raised any concerns 
about it but, nevertheless, it didnt think it had done anything  wrong  in relation to this issue.  
The complaint has now come to me to decide upon.  I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I thought  Mr Ss transfer  from his occupational pension scheme could be 
considered by this service. But I didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint. I did, however,  
provisionally conclude  WPSs  recommended  investment  portfolio was unsuitable for Mr S 
given his needs and circumstances. I upheld  this part of Mr Ss complaint.  
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional findings, which they both did. I address 
their comments below.
Ref: DRN69903182my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the avoidance  of doubt, this means I 
have considered everything  both parties  have  said in response to my provisional  decision, 
even though I will limit my findings to those areas I consider critical to the outcome of the 
complaint.
My provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.  I wont,  therefore, 
repeat everything  I said here. However, in summary, my provisional findings were as follows:
1.Even though  Mr Ss initial  complaint  was about  the suitability of the investment 
portfolio recommended  by WPS, it was well within my remit to consider Mr Ss 
occupational scheme benefits and how they came  to be transferred  to an income 
drawdown personal pension.  
2.There were  a number of flaws in WPSs advice process. But even if WPS had given 
thorough advice and had concluded Mr S shouldnt  have transferred from his 
occupational pension scheme,  Mr S would likely have wanted to proceed anyway 
because he appears to have had plans  to use his pension to build up his property 
portfolio. 
3.The investment  portfolio WPS recommended  to Mr S wasnt suitable for his needs 
given his plans  to release funds from his pension in the relatively short term. I upheld 
this part of Mr Ss complaint and set out my proposed compensation. The cost of 
WPSs initial advice was factored into my proposed compensation.
4.WPS shouldnt be held responsible for all the losses Mr S has identified  because 
some of those losses resulted from decisions Mr S should, reasonably, be 
accountable for.
5.The erroneous rebalancing of Mr Ss portfolio in September 2015 had been rectified 
by WPS so no further action needed  to be taken on this issue.
Comments from the parties were limited,  in the main, to points 2,3 and 4, which I address 
below.
Would Mr S have proceeded with the transfer whatever WPSs actions?
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  Mr S would  have wanted to proceed with the transfer, 
even if WPS had found it unsuitable and had advised against it. As a result,  I didnt think it 
would be fair to hold WPS responsible for the transfer because  Mr S would, in my view,  have 
transferred anyway  whatever WPSs actions. I thought Mr S would have  acted in this way 
because the evidence pointed to him having plans  to use his pension to build up his property  
portfolio, and his actions  after the transfer show  this is exactly what he went  on to do. I said:
1.Pension freedoms, which would have allowed Mr S greater flexibility with regards to his 
pension monies  (provided  he transferred) were announced  by the Chancellor  in March 
2014 and were due to come into effect in April 2015   shortly  after Mr S transferred. So 
Mr S would,  reasonably,  have known that he could  have accessed his occupational 
pension scheme  benefits to fund property purchases when he first started dealing with 
WPS. And it looks  like it was Mr S that approached WPS  for advice  in this area.
Ref: DRN699031832.The handwritten notes from the December 2014  meeting,  and fact find, make  a number of 
references to Mr S wanting to purchase properties.
3.Mr S already  had a sizeable portfolio of properties. Notes  from the December  2014  
meeting put this portfolio  at £1 million. Mr S disputes this number (he says it was under 
£1 million).  But I dont think theres any doubt  that Mr S had previously invested  in 
properties and had a sizeable portfolio. I think this supports  the notion that he wanted to 
use his pension  to do something similar. And although it equally meant WPS should have 
advised Mr S against being overexposed to residential  property  as Ive said above  Im 
not persuaded  Mr S would have been deterred  from this course of action.
4.As part of his submissions to this service, Mr S made some  handwritten  notes on the 
suitability report.  One of these notes says: [we] had been viewing houses to invest in. 
Similarly, during the course of our investigation,  Mr Ss representative said the following:
On meeting with [the adviser], pre investment, my father stated his intention  to purchase 
another property  in the immediate future so would therefore require  his 25% pension 
lump sum tax free and avoid a further  mortgage.  My parents  develop  and rent properties,  
so already had a plan underway. They were  actively viewing properties at the time of the 
meeting, so their intentions were very clear.
5.In April 2015,  Mr S contacted WPS to ask it to confirm to a property company that he had 
the necessary finances to purchase a house that he had made a successful offer on. This 
is further evidence  that Mr S wanted  to invest in property soon after transferring and 
already had a property  in mind ahead of the transfer.  It looks like this property was 
purchased with the help of a withdrawal  including tax-free  cash  from Mr Ss pension.
6.Mr S went on to use his pension monies  to invest in two further properties. He purchased  
one in December  2015 and one in April 2016.  He used  £51,603 of his pension on the first 
property and £59,400 on the second  (both  figures are after tax). This is in keeping with 
the notion that Mr S wanted  to use his pension to invest  in property but also shows  he 
wouldnt likely  have been  able to fund his plans without transferring the defined  benefit 
pension, given  the sums involved.
Mr S has argued that he wouldnt have  proceeded in the way I argued. Firstly,  he says he 
wasnt an experienced property investor  at the time.  He says he only had four rental 
properties, worth under  £500,000, one of which was mortgaged against  his home. He 
contrasts this with the 14.9 properties  an average residential landlord  had around  that time.  
He also says he had been renting out properties for just two years.  And he points to flaws in 
WPSs fact-finding exercise which meant  the reality of his experience and interest  in property 
wasnt recorded or researched properly, causing  incorrect conclusions  to now be drawn. 
Theres quite a lot to unpick here. But, at heart, the issue is relatively straightforward. Does 
the evidence point to Mr S as having an interest in using his pension to build up his property 
portfolio? Mr Ss existing exposure in this area plays into this because it would show, at the 
very least,  that further property investment would have been in keeping with past behaviour. 
And in Mr Ss case,  even if his exposure was more limited than previously recorded, it still 
seems to me to have  been  significant.  Even  a portfolio of four properties worth in the region  
of £500,000 still points to an interest, and no little experience, in that area  especially given  
Mr S was already looking at other  properties  at that point.  And whilst the portfolio may have 
been small relative to the average  portfolio for a residential landlord, I dont see why that 
Ref: DRN69903184would preclude  someone  from wanting  to invest in more. 
Of course,  the fact that Mr S already had a property portfolio wasnt the only,  or even  most  
significant, argument for why it looked  like he wanted to use his pension in this way. One of 
the key arguments was the contemporaneous, written, evidence which has a number  of 
references to Mr S wanting  to access cash from his pension and his plans to purchase  
properties:  
[Mr S] has a number of rented properties  looking to buy more  in the future
[December 2014  meeting  notes]
[Mr S] wants to look at receiving funds for property  purchases in the future  funds  not 
needed at this time as still working  reinvest in SIPP for now.  2 years at least.  
[December 2014  meeting  notes]
investment expectation  explained as 2 years is too short to see any reasonable returns  and 
potential investment growth. [Mr S] is not concerned  as he sees this as a process to get 
money for property so does not expect  large  investment  gains over such  a short  time.
[December 2014  meeting  notes]
Client is insistent on buying property from the transferred funds.  [Fact-find]
Mr S questions this evidence. He says the notes from the December 2014 meeting between  
him and WPS, and the fact-find, were inaccurate and werent seen or verified by him. He 
also says they relate to an informal chat,  rather than being part of a more  formal advice 
meeting. He also says the fact-find was undoubtedly completed  after the meeting. 
First of all, Im not persuaded that the meeting notes referred to above  should be 
disregarded because  theyre from, in Mr Ss words, a non-committal discussion held before  
the official advice meeting held a couple  of months  later. Theyre still written evidence from 
one of the meetings held between the parties so notwithstanding Mr Ss concerns about  the 
accuracy of some of those notes  a point which I will come  on to shortly  I think it fair and 
reasonable that they should  form part of my deliberations.  
With that in mind, Im satisfied the meeting notes and fact-find  point to Mr Ss plans and his 
apparent commitment to those plans  which was to use his pension to buy further 
properties. I accept  that this isnt incontrovertible  evidence. As Mr S has pointed  out, the 
meeting notes and fact-find werent  verified by him at the time. Even  so, I dont think it 
follows from this that they are necessarily misleading as a result.  And, whilst I recognise the 
inference in Mr Ss argument  that WPS fabricated at least some of its paperwork to allow  it 
to benefit from the transfer, endorsing such a view isnt something I can do lightly  and its 
not something I feel I have enough evidence to do here.
Mr S also points to specific inaccuracies  in the fact find which,  he says,  is further  evidence  of 
WPSs failure to record his needs and circumstances properly. In particular, he points to the 
fact-find recording him as having a will and as having no health issues, both of which  he 
disagrees with. However, it seems  to me that much  of the detail in the fact-find is accurate  
for instance, in relation to Mr Ss existing pensions and personal  details. So I dont think  it 
can all have been completed after the meeting as Mr S has said. And it means Mr S is 
essentially arguing that some of the detail is incorrect which  must  mean,  in his view, that 
everything is questionable. I disagree.  Clearly, inaccuracies of any kind are disappointing. 
But I dont think they necessarily mean the quotes referred to above  were an unfair 
Ref: DRN69903185representation of Mr Ss situation and intentions  which is the key issue here. 
Besides, on the issue of Mr Ss health,  Im not surprised the evidence  is contradictory. In 
response to my provisional  decision, Mr S said: 
despite being  [health condition] which was controlled; I was in good health so higher death 
benefits in new SIPP wasnt an issue.
[WPS] were claiming client was in ill health  to justify drawdown  - the same tactic  used in my 
case. I am [health  condition] but not in ill health  as WPS claimed
I could have had an enhanced annuity  but will never now have the option of understanding  
what that meant, the benefits etc
There are obvious inconsistencies here. Mr S is saying his health is (and was) good enough 
to not place any value on passing his pension fund on to his family in the event of his death 
and he is saying he has a specific health  condition which  would qualify for an enhanced 
annuity and was significant enough  that WPS should have  taken it into consideration. For 
the record, its apparent  from Mr Ss comments that he did have a health condition  at the 
time. But I think the above shows his condition is open to different interpretations. Mr S could 
feel in good health and yet his condition would still be a consideration for the purposes of 
financial advice. As such, I would  have expected  WPS  to have  done  a bit more  to probe, and 
record, all this at the time.  But Im also aware that Mr S may not have helped  WPS do this if 
he thought his health was good. Either way, it doesnt help Mr Ss case  because his 
condition would, often,  be a reason why someone  would  want to transfer.     
Ive also considered Mr Ss point  that some of the comments in the meeting notes and fact-
find could be seen  to relate to just the property  purchase he was planning to make  with his 
tax-free cash  so a single  purchase  rather than a commitment  to multiple purchases.  He 
made a similar  point  in relation  to his representatives comment  about  having a plan 
underway with regards  property investment  (point 4 in the list above).  
It seems  to me that comments like [we]  had been  viewing houses  to invest  in and my 
parents develop and rent properties, so already had a plan underway hint at something 
more than just a one-off purchase. But, even if I put these  comments  to one side,  I dont 
think there can be any doubt about  the other notes referred to above which  point to, in my 
view, an intention to buy multiple properties. 
Mr S also says his actions after the transfer dont point to a pre-determined plan to invest in 
property. Rather, the two properties he purchased after he switched to cash  in September  
2015 were only purchased because he had been forced  to move his portfolio into cash  
because of WPSs unsuitable advice to invest in a portfolio that was too risky for him  and 
he was therefore  left in the position of having  to invest in something, otherwise his pension  
would be eroded  by inflation  and fees. He has forwarded on two emails which he sent to 
WPS in October and November 2015 to prove his point. These emails show  Mr S asking 
WPS for advice on alternative wrapper  investments   the point being that Mr S wasnt, at 
that point, determined to invest in property  but was willing to consider other investments.
Its evident from the emails that Mr S was unhappy with the riskiness of his funds and the 
costs he was incurring.  But that has never been in doubt. It was the crux of his original  
complaint after all. In that context, its not surprising he was looking  at an alternative  
wrapper. But the fact is Mr S switched  to cash in September 2015 and three months  later he 
Ref: DRN69903186had already purchased another property, with another property following not long after  
bringing his total portfolio to seven  properties. He knowingly  took a considerable tax hit as a 
result of these purchases too. This doesnt strike me as being the actions of someone who 
was reluctant to invest in property  quite the opposite. And whilst I take on board Mr Ss 
comment that he didnt  want his pension to be eroded by inflation  and fees,  I dont think 
either were so high that Mr S could,  reasonably,  argue  that he had to buy two properties in 
quick succession to avoid them. I accept Mr S might  have  brought  forward his decision to 
invest in property because of falls in investment markets. But Im satisfied the intention to 
use his pension to fund property purchases  was there all along.
Its useful at this point to consider Mr Ss argument that his purchase of further  properties  
shouldnt be used to substantiate a claim that this was always his intention.  In response,  I 
would say its the accumulation of evidence pointing to Mr Ss intentions that is important 
here. Mr S did have an existing property  portfolio.  The written evidence  from the time does 
state he had an interest  in using his pension to purchase further properties. And Mr S did 
indeed go on to use his pension to buy a property  with his tax-free cash and a further two 
properties not long thereafter. I make my decisions on the balance of probabilities  that is 
what is most likely  to have happened  given the available  evidence.  And, taking  all this 
evidence together,  I consider it likely that Mr S was committed to using his pension  to 
develop his property  portfolio.
The above  means I dont have to make a finding  on the suitability of the transfer because Im 
satisfied Mr S would  have continued  with the transfer even if advised against  doing so. For 
the same  reason, it also means the evident  flaws  in WPSs advice process  which I outlined 
in my provisional decision  dont,  ultimately,  impact on the outcome of the complaint 
because I dont think WPSs actions  would have prevented Mr S transferring his pension.
Mr Ss comments in relation to some of the processes and regulations  WPS should have 
followed should be seen  in the same  light. Mr S points to (amongst others) PRIN 2.1.1 (R) 
(which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), COBS 9 
(which relates to assessing  suitability),  COBS 19 (which presupposes a transfer from a 
defined benefits  pension scheme is unsuitable) and a regulators bulletin from 2013 (which 
required firms  to consider  the proposed investment when considering a transfer from a 
defined benefits  pension scheme). Ive no doubt  WPS  didnt meet  all its regulatory  
obligations. I explained at length why that was the case in my provisional decision and my 
view on this hasnt changed.  But the issue is whether Mr S would have taken different action 
even if WPS had fulfilled  its obligations.  For the reasons given above, and in my provisional  
decision, Im satisfied Mr S would  have still continued with the transfer in these  
circumstances. 
Finally on this matter, WPS said in response  to my provisional decision that it agreed with 
my view that the advice  it gave to transfer  was not unsuitable. I trust Ive made it clear from 
the above that this wasnt my conclusion. But, for the avoidance of doubt,  I repeat: I make no 
judgement on the suitability  of the transfer.  
Were WPSs  investment  recommendations suitable?
This issue was the crux of Mr Ss original complaint. He thought the portfolio recommended 
by WPS was too risky for him. He pointed to the risk ratings of the various funds WPS 
recommended which  were almost entirely  rated as 4, 5 and 6 on a scale of 1 to 7 (with  7 
being the highest risk) even though he was rated as being a lowest medium risk investor.  
Ref: DRN69903187In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that the portfolio recommended  for Mr S would,  likely,  
have been suitable for someone with a low-medium  attitude to risk. But I went  on to say that 
Mr S had specific plans for his transferred funds which could, potentially, have resulted in 
him disinvesting large sums in the short to medium term (which is, indeed,  what did happen).  
So I thought  WPS  should have been  a bit more  nuanced in its approach, adapting its 
standardised portfolio construction process for the specifics of Mr Ss situation. Had it done 
so, I thought a higher weighting in cash would have been the likely recommendation. 
In response, Mr S reiterated his comments  in relation to the portfolio being  too risky. I dont 
have anything further to add to the comments I made in my provisional decision where I 
looked at this issue in some  detail. My view was  and remains  that the portfolio was likely 
to have been suitable for someone who was lowest medium risk. I recognise 
Mr S has previously  said his risk tolerance was actually lower  than this, which is a slightly 
different argument.  And, in a sense,  I agree  although my rationale is different. As outlined  
above I think Mr S was more risk averse than WPS allowed for given the plans  he had for his 
pension monies.  
Mr S also argued that the potential returns from his recommended portfolio were 
exaggerated. He points to a document showing WPS saying his portfolio would be expected 
to produce a yield of between  5 and 8% per annum over the medium term. He contrasts this 
with another document,  which suggests potential (inflation adjusted) growth  of 2.29% p.a. 
However, the former document is from after the events in question (its actually from WPSs 
response to Mr Ss complaint) whereas the latter figure is from documents used during 
WPSs advice process  (its from the risk profiler report). Given this, Im not persuaded WPS 
did exaggerate potential returns at the time in the way Mr S suggests. I can see from the 
illustrations used by WPS and provider A that projections based on returns  of 2, 5 and 8% 
were used. But these  were a regulatory  requirement and came with a warning that the 
returns werent guaranteed and that a risk averse portfolio (like Mr Ss in fact) could produce  
lower returns.  
I agree  with Mr S in so far as he should  have  been  recommended a portfolio  with a higher 
cash weighting. Clearly,  this would have reduced  the returns  Mr S could have  expected. But 
the impact of this would have been significantly lower than Mr S suggests given the 
recommendation was already suitable  for someone with a lowest medium  attitude to risk. 
More importantly, Im satisfied Mr S would  have still transferred even if a more suitable  
investment portfolio had been  recommended and the potential expected returns from that 
portfolio been  made clear to him. After all, the reason  why I think Mr S should have been  
recommended a lower  risk portfolio in the first place is because Im satisfied he had plans  to 
use that portfolio  to fund property purchases. 
Ive also considered WPSs comments that question the notion of nuanced investment 
advice. But Im satisfied the point I was making   that advisers  should  tailor their 
recommendations to the specific needs of a client  is a valid one. 
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  my thoughts on this issue by saying Mr S should  
have been advised to allocate 50% of his portfolio to cash  (or cash-like investments) and 
50% to a range of asset classes to give him the opportunity for some investment growth. 
WPS says Mr S wouldnt have taken kindly to his funds receiving no return. But my proposed  
compensation never made that assumption. It assumed Mr S would have wanted some  
return. WPS also says a smaller allocation to cash would have been reasonable given lower  
house prices in Mr Ss area relative to the national  average. I take from this that WPS is 
Ref: DRN69903188arguing Mr S wouldnt have needed so much cash on hand  to fund potential property 
purchases given  each transaction would have been  relatively small. I disagree.  It seems to 
me from the evidence that Mr S was happy  to build up his portfolio quite quickly. So, if 
anything, a greater weighting to cash might have been appropriate.  I recognise  that this isnt 
an exact science,  however,  so in the absence of any particularly compelling arguments one 
way or the other, I think the approach  I took in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. 
WPS has also said that it would agree to my findings in this area subject to final 
calculations being  agreed. This isnt the approach this service  takes.  WPS is welcome to 
disagree with my findings  and it has done  so. But it cant make its agreement  with some  of 
my findings  conditional on the amount of potential compensation it might have to pay. This is 
because the amount of compensation isnt a relevant  consideration in deciding whether a 
business has done anything wrong and because compensation is only calculated once a 
final decision  has been accepted by a complainant.  
Mr Ss comments regarding  his losses
Mr S has estimated he lost in the region of £100,000 to £200,000 as a result  of WPSs actions. I 
dont know all the specifics behind  Mr Ss estimate  (although he mentions a yield from his 
occupational scheme of 3-5% which I will come on to later).  But its worth  pointing  out here that 
Mr S has, at various points, complained about  missing out on investment returns  by being in 
cash, the difficulty of having to manage several properties, the potential for a house price crash  
and the tax implications  of his actions  all of which he says stem from WPSs failures. 
I mention all this because when Mr S decided to switch his portfolio to cash in September 2015 
(and stay there),  it was his decision to do that. It meant he wasnt  in a position to benefit  from 
the rebound in equity markets that followed  shortly after. He also chose  to invest in another two 
properties and would  have known the various  potential drawbacks (and advantages) of doing so 
given his previous  experience in this area.  Similarly, he would have been aware of the potential 
tax implications of drawing down on his pension because he had indicated  his understanding of 
the issue when  he emailed WPS in November 2015:
Would you please  organise  a drawdown on my pension pot of £50,000, to be paid into my 
[bank] account.  I appreciate that the sum would attract a 45% tax payment to H.M.R.C  and 
therefore the outlay would  be just over £90,000 to retain the £50K that I require. 
Our approach isnt to assume everything  that followed a businesss mistake is the responsibility 
of that business.  Sometimes it is. But sometimes theres a break in causation  where  its the 
consumer, not the business, that has caused, added to or not mitigated subsequent losses.  I 
think that applies here. As such, I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to hold WPS 
responsible for all the losses Mr S has identified. My approach  to compensation reflects this. 
And, for the same reason, it means  Mr Ss compensation  would, potentially,  have been capped 
even if I was upholding his complaint in its entirety.  
On a similar note, in the event of upholding his complaint in its entirety,  I would likely have offset 
any benefits Mr S has derived from his property purchases against any losses to ensure he 
wasnt being put in a better position than he otherwise would have been in. This is not a live 
issue given Im only partially upholding Mr Ss complaint, but I think it worthwhile  giving Mr S an 
indication that compensation  under any reasonable scenario  may not have been  as high as 
he would  have expected.
Ref: DRN69903189Finally on this subject, Mr S has made reference  to not being  told about  the yield of 3-5% from 
his defined benefits occupational pension scheme  even though he was told the yield for two of 
his much smaller  transferred pensions was 2%. He says this is misleading  because it made it 
look like all he was giving  up was 2% p.a. when the true picture   in his view  was the decent 
3-5% p.a. yield he was losing on the majority of his transferred funds. Mr S also says the 3-5% 
figure is factored  into his calculation of his losses. 
I think the above is a misreading of the situation.  The figure for the two small pensions is an 
historic return  figure for the with profits funds the pensions were  invested in. An equivalent 
comparison of the past performance of his defined benefits  scheme  would have been all but 
meaningless (and not something  Id expect to see here) because the schemes investment 
returns wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Ss pension  because his pension  would, 
ordinarily, have been the same whatever returns were achieved (ensuring  sufficient  returns are 
a problem for the schemes trustees  in this respect). The 3-5% figure Mr S has pointed  to looks 
to be the annual increase Mr S would have  received  from his defined  benefits pension. But 
pension increases would have been  taken into consideration in Mr Ss transfer value so they 
havent been lost as such  they would have  just increased the amount Mr S had available in 
his drawdown plan. So this again  suggests compensation wouldnt likely have been as high as 
Mr S has estimated.   
Other issues
Mr S has pointed  me to other ombudsman decisions which, he says,  support his case. 
However, each complaint  is decided on its own individual  merits. And, for the reasons given 
above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied this means Mr Ss complaint  should only 
be partially upheld.
Mr S has also forwarded on a letter from his accountant which  attests to his good character. 
The accountant also provided a timeline of events. For the avoidance of doubt,  I havent 
called into question the character or motives of anyone involved in the case. Ive limited my 
findings to the specifics  of the case,  the evidence provided by both parties and the rules I 
need to follow when dealing with complaints such as this. And in relation to the accountants 
timeline, it doesnt provide any materially new information on what  happened.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr S in the position  he would  have been in  as far as possible  had he not 
been advised to invest in the portfolio recommended by WPS. I take the view that Mr S 
should have been advised to invest 50% of his portfolio in cash-like investments with the 
remainder invested  in a range of asset classes (not just equities)  that would have given him 
the opportunity  to achieve some investment growth. 
To compensate Mr S fairly  WPS should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss entire drawdown portfolio with that of the 
benchmark shown  below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ss pension plan after allowing for 
any further growth set out in the table below. The payment should allow  for the effect 
Ref: DRN699031810of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a 
deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise have been  used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have been taxed 
according to his likely tax paying status  in retirement   presumed to be 20%, so the 
15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple  format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
growth
Mr Ss 
entire 
portfolio 
with 
provider Asoldfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index;  for the 
other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of the 
first pension  
to be 
transferred  to 
provider  A23 
September  
2015
 (date of the 
switch to 
100%  cash)in line with the 
return on the 
funds in cash 
with provider A 
from the end 
date to the 
date of my final 
decision
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if WPS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr S wanted some  capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income  total return index)  is made  up of a range of indices with different 
Ref: DRN699031811asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider Mr Ss risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It doesnt mean he would 
have invested  50% in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. 
Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that reflects the sort of return  Mr S 
could have obtained from investments suited to his objectives  and risk attitude.
Mr S moved his portfolio to cash on 23 September  2015.  This was Mr Ss decision so 
any losses thereafter (for example,  by staying in cash after markets had rebounded) 
are not the responsibility of WPS.
The pension still exists, with the remaining funds still in cash. So I think  its fair to 
assume that any loss showing  in the income drawdown policy at the point Mr S 
switched to cash would  have  performed in line with those cash funds.
If the above shows there to have been  a loss, WPSs  advice fee is effectively 
refunded to Mr S.
Interest should  be added  to any compensation payment at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of my final decision  to settlement  if its not settled within 28 days of WPS 
receiving Mr Ss acceptance of the final decision.  Income tax may be payable  on any interest  
awarded.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
WPS Financial  Group Limited  must now pay Mr S compensation  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN699031812COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S is unhappy  with the advice and service he received from WPS Financial  Group Limited in 2014 
and 2015. 
background
Mr S was a member of a defined benefit occupational pension scheme. He also had an additional 
voluntary contribution (AVC) plan, a personal  pension  plan and a stakeholder pension  plan. He met 
with WPS in December 2014 and February 2015. WPS made a number  of recommendations with 
regards to Mr Ss pension arrangements.
Mr S subsequently moved his four pensions to a flexible  income drawdown personal  pension with 
provider A. The combined transfer value for the four pensions was a little over £400,000. A 
significant proportion  of this related to Mr Ss defined benefit occupational scheme. The proceeds of 
the four transfers  were  invested across a number  of funds.
In 2016, Mr S complained  to WPS.  His complaint covered  a number of areas. His central  concern was 
that he didnt think the funds he invested in through provider A were suitable given his attitude  to risk. 
He also thought the fees he ended up paying  were not properly disclosed  during the advice process. 
He was concerned that a portfolio rebalancing exercise in late 2015  resulted in the purchase of funds 
he no longer wanted  to be invested  in. And he was unhappy  with the overall service provided  by WPS 
which, he says, was poor and not in line with what had been agreed.  
WPS paid Mr S compensation for the error  in rebalancing his portfolio. But it didnt think it had done 
anything else wrong. Mr S referred his complaint  to us. An adjudicator  and an ombudsman have 
issued their provisional conclusions. It now falls to me to finalise the outcome of Mr Ss complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to partially uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint. I explain why below,  but first I think its worth summarising some key facts and chronology 
of events.
Overview and chronology
Mr S met with WPS on 15 December 2014. WPS made some hand-written notes. It looks like a 
30-section fact find was also completed (although  this wasnt  dated  so it could have been 
completed at a later date). The following points  were  recorded:
Mr Ss main concern  was said to have been his defined benefit  occupational pension  
scheme.
Mr S had a number of rented properties and was said to have been looking to buy more in 
the future using  his pension funds, which were estimated  to be worth just under £400,000.  
Mr Ss properties werent individually  listed but were said to be worth over 
£1 million. 
Funds were not needed immediately but would be needed in at least two years.  Mr S 
was said to be comfortable that two years wouldnt  be long enough to see any significant 
investment returns.  
Mr S was 64 at the time (but about to turn 65) and wanted to continue working. 
Ref: DRN699031813Mr S was said to have had no health issues.
On 8 January 2015, a further meeting took place. Its possible this was over the telephone (the 
meeting note suggests as much). The meeting clarified some of the information in relation to 
Mr Ss pension schemes. Mr S is also recorded as saying  he wanted WPS  to look into using his 
defined benefit occupational  pension scheme for drawdown in two years. The note says the 
disadvantages of doing this were discussed.  
A further meeting was held on 11 February 2015. The following documents were  used as part of 
that meeting: 
A Personal Illustration.  This was dated 10 February and provided fund projections under 
various scenarios,  as well as charges for WPS, provider A and the various fund managers 
that WPS was recommending.
A Fee Agreement and Service  Engagement. This outlined the fees WPS were going to 
charge Mr S. It was signed by Mr S on 11 February.
A declaration  for provider  A. This formed part of Mr S application for provider A and was 
signed by Mr S on 11 February. The declaration  included the fee arrangements for WPS.
A Pension  Options  Recommendation Report. This was dated 11 February  and outlined  
WPSs recommendations. It looks  like this was later posted to Mr S. 
A Risk Profiler Report. This was dated a day after the meeting and outlined  Mr Ss 
attitude to risk. A questionnaire had previously been completed,  and signed, by Mr S 
although the date it was completed  isnt clear.
Forms to transfer  from his pensions  were  signed by Mr S on 11 February.
On 19 February, WPS wrote to Mr Ss occupational  pension scheme to confirm  Mr Ss decision 
to transfer
An account with provider A was opened in March. The stakeholder pension was transferred 
across to provider  A on 9 March and the personal pension was transferred on 25 March. 
Sometime in April,  Mr S contacted  WPS to ask it to confirm to a property company that he had 
the necessary funds  to purchase a house that he had made  a successful offer on. The defined  
benefit occupational pension scheme hadnt been transferred  at this point. 
Mr Ss defined benefit occupational  pension scheme was transferred to provider  A on 29 April.  
Given the amount  (£348,212) this looks to have included the AVC as well.
On 30 April, provider A wrote to Mr S to confirm that Mr Ss various investments had been made.
On 14 September, Mr S emailed WPS to take benefits from his entire  pension  from provider A as 
a lump sum. WPS  responded the same day advising Mr S to not proceed given  the large  tax bill 
he would face as a result (which it put at £109,500). Mr S decided  against withdrawing  his 
pension.
On 23 September, Mr S asked  WPS to convert his entire portfolio to cash, which  WPS did.
Ref: DRN699031814On 20 November, Mr S emailed WPS to request £50,000 (after tax) to be paid from his pension 
with provider A to his bank account:
Would you please organise a drawdown  on my pension pot of £50,000, to be paid into my [bank] 
account. I appreciate that the sum would  attract  a 45% tax payment  to H.M.R.C and therefore  the 
outlay would be just over £90,000 to retain the £50K that I require.
WPS emailed Mr S to confirm this had been done on 23 November.  
There  was a telephone call between the parties on 16 December. The discussion related to an 
error which  saw Mr Ss portfolio get automatically rebalanced following  his instruction in 
September to put his entire portfolio into cash. The rebalancing  saw Mr Ss portfolio  increase its 
exposure to non-cash  assets in line with WPSs original portfolio recommendation.  WPS said this 
was its fault because  it hadnt asked provider A to turn off the automatic rebalancing  facility 
following Mr Ss instruction in September. WPS offered to either leave  Mr S invested and, if this 
didnt work in his favour, pay back any losses by 31 March 2016 or return the portfolio to cash 
and make  a payment to reflect any losses. Mr S said he wanted no further exposure to stock 
markets and opted for the compensation  for his losses, which WPS  paid in December. 
On 8 April 2016,  WPS  called Mr S to confirm whether  it should proceed with his request to 
withdraw £99,000 gross from his pension. Mr S confirmed he wanted to proceed. 
Mr Ss complaint points
Mr Ss complaint to WPS covered a number  of areas, all of which he referred on to us. I deal with 
these concerns below. But before I do so, its worth mentioning a further point of contention between 
the parties that wasnt part of Mr Ss original  complaint.  This relates to Mr Ss defined  benefit 
occupational scheme and whether he should have transferred the cash  value of the benefits  he held 
in that scheme to provider A. It has become  an issue because an ombudsman provisionally said WPS  
should have advised against  this course of action and Mr S now thinks similarly  that is, he thinks  he 
should have remained  in the scheme  despite not complaining about this originally. WPS is 
concerned that we have considered an area that Mr S never previously expressed any concern or 
doubt about. 
This service is required to do more than just look at a complaint as its written or explained to us. We 
must think about what lies at the heart of a complaint and look at the whole picture. This approach 
was recognised in court in R (Williams) v Financial  Ombudsman  Service [2008]  EWHC 2142: 
"The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action.  His jurisdiction is inquisitorial  not 
adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can operate."
In the context  of this complaint, it means I can look at the issue of Mr Ss occupational scheme 
benefits and how they came  to be transferred to an income drawdown personal pension. Mr S 
complained about WPSs advice because it left him  in his view  with unsuitable, risky, assets  which 
have made  him worse  off in retirement  than he otherwise  would  have been. Im satisfied  the advice  
that allowed him to invest in those assets in the first place goes to the heart of Mr Ss concerns and I 
would be well within my remit to take that advice into consideration. 
The advice to transfer  
Mr S transferred four pensions to provider  A, although it is the transfer of his defined benefit  
occupational scheme benefits  which was a large  proportion  of his total pension assets  that is the 
issue Mr S is most concerned about.
 
Ref: DRN699031815In its recommendations  report,  WPS said the following  about these benefits:
your main concern was the pensions that you hold...You would like to consider these schemes  for 
potential drawdown options  in two years time. 
I have recommended  that you transfer your existing  pension benefits to an alternative arrangement  
for the following reasons:
The pension scheme trustees have offered a competitive Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value
Your  personal  circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided  by the pension  freedom 
legislation at retirement
The report went on to provide some  risk warnings about transferring away from a defined  benefit  
pension scheme, with further  warnings contained in an appendix headed Risk Warnings - Defined  
Benefit Transfers. The report also recommended Mr S transfer his other three pension  plans and 
recommended a provider  provider A  and investment portfolio for the transferred funds.
Mr S was just a few days  away from his normal retirement age when he was provided with a transfer 
value from his occupational scheme. WPS has argued that this means  some of the usual regulatory 
requirements dont apply in Mr Ss case. 
Specifically, WPS  has referred us to a 2011 factsheet from the regulator  which defines a pension 
transfer as being the transfer of deferred benefits from an occupational scheme  (amongst other 
things) but goes on to say:
If an individual is transferring benefits for the purpose of crystallising the benefits these  will not be 
considered deferred benefits. [Financial Services  Authority factsheet: Pension transfers  who can 
do what and when?]
Given Mr S was transferring  to crystallise benefits, WPS says this wasnt a pension  transfer (as 
defined by the rules at the time) and therefore it didnt need to comply with the pension  transfer rules 
as outlined in the Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS). In particular,  WPS says this means 
COBS 19.1 (Pension transfers and opt-outs) doesnt apply. 
In short, COBS 19.1 would have required WPS to have  provided  a comprehensive  comparison of the 
potential benefits under  the ceding  scheme and receiving  scheme (including  the rates  of return that 
would have to be achieved to replicate  the benefits being given up). It would also have required  its 
advice to be checked by a pension transfer specialist.  WPS  wouldnt have fulfilled  these requirements 
but, because Mr S was transferring to crystallise his benefits, it says it nevertheless complied with the 
rules in place at the time. 
Ive considered WPSs point carefully. However,  even if there is an argument for saying this wasnt a 
pension transfer as defined  by the rules, WPS still had a duty to give Mr S suitable advice (COBS 9.2) 
and act in his best interest (COBS 2.1.1). So WPS still had to ensure that it was suitable  for Mr S to 
give up his guaranteed  occupational scheme benefits.  Having looked at the recommendations report, 
its difficult to say WPS did this. 
As outlined  above, the recommendation was given  for two reasons: the trustees had provided  a 
competitive transfer value and Mr Ss personal circumstances would have benefited from the 
flexibility of his new arrangements. But how competitive  the transfer value was doesnt seem to have 
been quantified. And the personal circumstances that would have led to Mr S benefiting from giving  
up valuable, guaranteed,  benefits  for the sake of greater flexibility were never explored  in detail  either. 
I also dont think the risk warnings about  giving up his defined benefit  occupational scheme  were 
particularly robust or personalised. There were warnings about investment risk, the impact  of annuity  
rates and the like. Theres also an appendix listing  the advantages  and disadvantages of transferring  
Ref: DRN699031816from such a scheme. But I cant  see anywhere where  it was clearly outlined to Mr S what  the potential 
financial implications of his decision could  have  been.  Furthermore, I cant see any evidence of there 
having been  any exploration  of alternative approaches  to achieving Mr Ss goals. For example,  I cant 
see any exploration of Mr Ss specific plans  in relation to his property portfolio  and whether he could  
have continued to build  this up without transferring  for example, by leveraging  his tax-free cash  and 
pension payments  drawn directly from his defined benefit scheme, or by accessing  just his other 
pensions.
So, based on the recommendations report, it would be difficult to conclude that it was suitable for 
Mr S to have  given up his occupational scheme benefits. It may have been. But the recommendations 
report doesnt  make that case in any detail  or with any degree of persuasiveness. At the very least, 
WPSs advice should have impressed upon Mr S the importance of a guaranteed income as part of 
his retirement planning and emphasised the lack of diversification, and increased risk, in a strategy 
that was focused on residential  property.  But it seems to me that the transfer was considered a done 
deal by WPS with its focus being on other issues  Mr Ss investment portfolio for instance. 
Interestingly, WPS has provided more detailed financial analysis of Mr Ss transfer as part of its 
investigation into his complaint. It has also made other arguments as to the suitability of the transfer, 
including the ability for Mr S to have passed on the pension to family members in the event of his 
death (Mr S has told us he did have health issues at the time even  though this wasnt recorded  in the 
fact find). Its disappointing that this more  thorough analysis wasnt  completed by WPS  at the time 
given its regulatory responsibilities.  
Ultimately, however, I dont need  to make a definitive finding on whether WPSs advice to transfer 
was suitable or not. Even if WPS had given thorough advice taking into account  all the relevant  
issues, and had concluded Mr S should not have transferred from the occupational scheme, Im 
satisfied Mr S would have  wanted to proceed with the transfer anyway because he appears to have 
had firm plans to use his pension to build up his property  portfolio. Given this, it wouldnt be fair to 
hold WPS  responsible for the transfer because Mr S would, in my view,  have done this anyway  
whatever WPSs  actions. 
I take this view because: 
1.Pension  freedoms, which would have allowed Mr S greater flexibility with regards to his pension  
monies (provided he transferred) were announced  by the Chancellor in March 2014 and were due 
to come into effect in April 2015  shortly after Mr S transferred. So Mr S would, reasonably, have 
known that he could have  accessed his occupational  pension  scheme  benefits  to fund property 
purchases when  he first started dealing  with WPS.  And it looks  like it was Mr S that approached 
WPS for advice in this area.
2.The handwritten  notes  from the December 2014 meeting, and fact find, make a number of 
references to Mr S wanting to purchase properties. For example:
[Mr S] has a number of rented properties  looking  to buy more  in the future
[Mr S] wants  to look at remaining funds for property purchases in the future
Client is insistent on buying  property from the transferred funds.
3.Mr S already had a sizeable  portfolio  of properties.  Notes from the December 2014 meeting put 
this portfolio at £1 million.  Mr S disputes this number (he says it was under £1 million). But I dont 
think theres any doubt that Mr S had previously invested in properties and had a sizeable portfolio. 
I think  this supports the notion that he wanted to use his pension to do something similar. And 
although it equally meant WPS should have advised Mr S against being overexposed to residential  
property  as Ive said above  Im not persuaded Mr S would have been deterred from this course 
of action.
Ref: DRN6990318174.As part of his submissions to this service, Mr S made some handwritten notes on the suitability 
report. One of these  notes says: [we] had been viewing houses to invest in. Similarly, during  the 
course of our investigation, Mr Ss representative said the following:
On meeting  with [the adviser], pre investment, my father stated his intention  to purchase another 
property in the immediate future so would  therefore require his 25% pension  lump sum tax free 
and avoid a further mortgage. My parents  develop and rent properties, so already  had a plan 
underway. They were  actively  viewing  properties at the time of the meeting, so their intentions  
were very clear.
5.In April 2015, Mr S contacted WPS to ask it to confirm  to a property  company that he had the 
necessary finances  to purchase a house that he had made  a successful offer on. This is further 
evidence that Mr S wanted to invest in property soon after transferring  and already had a property 
in mind  ahead  of the transfer.  It looks like this property was purchased with the help of a 
withdrawal including  tax-free cash from Mr Ss pension.
6.Mr S went on to use his pension  monies  to invest in two further  properties. He purchased one in 
December 2015 and one in April 2016. He used £51,603  of his pension on the first property and 
£59,400 on the second  (both figures are after tax). This is in keeping  with the notion that Mr S 
wanted to use his pension  to invest  in property but also shows  he wouldnt likely have been able to 
fund his plans without transferring the defined benefit pension,  given the sums involved.
Its possible that if WPS found that transferring wasnt suitable, and advised Mr S accordingly, Mr S 
wouldnt have proceeded. After all, WPS was there to provide  its professional opinion on the matter 
and I think this would have carried  weight  with Mr S. So Ive considered  this point very carefully.  But, 
on balance, I think the evidence  outlined  above shows Mr S wouldnt  likely have been deterred from 
transferring even if WPS had found it to have been unsuitable. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss point that he wanted to invest in one property using his tax free cash  but 
had no intention of investing  in other properties thereafter. He says he only went down  this route 
when he became  concerned about the performance of his portfolio with provider A. Im not persuaded  
by this. I think the evidence as outlined  above shows a commitment on Mr Ss part to use his pension 
to fund his property  portfolio. And Mr Ss actions in late 2015 dont suggest  someone who had 
explored all other options before, reluctantly, investing in property. He switched to cash  in September 
2015 and three months later he had already purchased  another property,  with another  property 
following not long after.  Its possible Mr S brought forward his decision to invest  in property because  
of falls in his portfolio. But Im satisfied  the intention  to use his pension to fund property purchases 
was there all along.
In short, Im satisfied  Mr S wanted to transfer his defined benefit  occupational scheme so that he 
could access cash (following  pension freedoms) to purchase  properties and Im satisfied he would 
have done so whatever WPSs advice. I think WPS would have been free to treat him as an insistent 
client if he wanted to act against  its advice. In order to do this WPS  would have  first needed to make 
its advice,  and the consequences of Mr S acting against that advice, completely clear. It didnt. But, 
again, Im satisfied that had WPS done  this Mr S wouldnt have been  deterred from his course of 
action. It follows that I dont  uphold this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Before moving  on from this point, for the sake of completeness its worth mentioning  two further 
arguments that WPS has put forward to demonstrate  Mr Ss intentions  with regards to his pension 
monies, and the reasons why he wanted  to take the actions he did. 
Firstly, WPS says Mr S pleaded with it to help with the transfer  from his occupational scheme  
because, ordinarily, transfers within 12 months of retirement wouldnt be allowed (a point that has 
been confirmed by the administrators of the scheme). I accept  this could demonstrate Mr Ss 
determination to make the transfer happen. However, I havent been provided with any persuasive 
corroborating evidence to show Mr S acted in this way, or that the trustees  really did have to be 
persuaded (rather  than just asked) to grant the transfer.  So Ive discounted this argument from my 
Ref: DRN699031818deliberations. As this is a provisional  decision, either party  is welcome to provide further comments  
and evidence  on this issue.
Secondly, WPS says Mr S wanted to transfer from his occupational scheme because he was in ill 
health and the drawdown arrangement would have been more beneficial to his family in the event  of 
his death. However, the issue Im deciding  on here is whether Mr S would  have gone ahead with the 
transfer whatever  WPSs advice. And the evidence  from the time doesnt show Mr S was concerned 
about his health, or that it played any part in his considerations. Mr S has subsequently told us he had 
health issues at the time, so it may have  played  a part in his thinking  (and may be a reason for saying 
the transfer was suitable).  But the evidence  isnt strong enough to show Mr S was concerned enough 
at the time for it to have  featured in his thought process.
Mr Ss investment funds
Even though  Im satisfied Mr S did want to transfer his pensions, and use those pensions to fund 
property purchases, this didnt remove the obligation for WPS to provide suitable  investment advice 
on the funds resulting from those transfers.
As part of the advice process, Mr S completed (and signed) a questionnaire that assessed his attitude  
to risk. As a result, Mr S was said to be lowest medium  risk or a 4 on a scale of 1 to 10 (with  1 
being the most risk averse).  
The recommendations  report described  Mr Ss attitude  to risk as follows:
An investment portfolio  appropriate  for this risk level may contain,  for example,  mainly lower- or 
medium-risk investments such as cash, bonds or property, typically  with a few higher-risk investments  
such as shares.
Your sensitivity  to volatility is realistic  and you recognise  that markets  fluctuate and that some short 
term volatility must be accepted in order to achieve your investment objectives. You have sufficient 
assets outside of your portfolio and an investment  time horizon far enough in the future  to withstand 
small to medium losses without any detrimental effect  to your living standards. Your capacity to loss 
threshold would be no more than 20%.
The recommendations  report proposed a portfolio for Mr S. I summarise this below,  along with the risk 
ratings given  to the chosen  funds in a series of Key Investor Information factsheets  that each fund 
was required to provide (Ive excluded  the name of the actual fund managers  for each fund because 
its not relevant  to the complaint):
Risk Rating (on a scale  of 1 
to 7, as provided  in fund 
factsheets)
Cash 2% 1
Corporate Bond Tracker 32% 3
Global Property Tracker 8% 6
Overseas Government Bond  Tracker 5% 4
Japanese Equities 5% 6
UK Equities 19% 6
US Equities 14% 5
Gilts 5% 4
Index Linked Gilts 3% 4
European Equities 7% 6
Ref: DRN699031819Mr S has made a number of detailed points about the suitability of the portfolio. But, in short, he says 
it was too risky for him. In particular,  he says he didnt  have a loss threshold of 20%. Hes referred  us 
to the risk rating of the funds given in the factsheets.
The first point to note is that the risk ratings of the funds as provided  in the various factsheets are on a 
scale of 1 (lowest risk) to 7 (highest risk) whereas Mr Ss attitude to risk was scored  on a scale of 1 to 
10. So this does create problems when  comparing  one with the other. However,  our adjudicator  took 
the approach  that a rating of 4 on a scale of 1 to 10 (which  was Mr Ss score) would equate to a score 
of 3 on a scale of 1 to 7. I think  this is a reasonable approach. And a cursory  glance  at the table 
above shows theres a high preponderance of funds  with a score of over 3. Our adjudicator initially  
said this suggested the portfolio was too risky for Mr S.
WPS argued that the portfolio should be looked at as a whole because  diversification benefits would 
bring down its overall risk below what one would expect given its component parts. And it said the risk 
ratings given  to the funds were based on volatility  over the previous five years rather than being a 
more thorough assessment  of potential future risk. 
I think  both points are valid. I dont think its particularly contentious to say diversification can reduce  
the overall risk level of a portfolio. And whilst past volatility is a useful measure of risk for a particular  
fund, looking at this exclusively can be misleading.  For instance, I think  its reasonable  to say gilts are 
lower risk than corporate bonds. But the risk rating as outlined in the table above doesnt reflect  this  
the corporate bond fund has been given  a lower risk rating than both the gilt funds. This suggests to 
me that there  were periods of day-to-day volatility in the pricing of gilts in the five years before the risk 
ratings were given. But this doesnt alter the conventional risk level of the gilts themselves which, 
under any reasonable scenario, will continue to pay a known income stream until maturity  (in fact any 
volatility in their price  reflects  their role as a safe harbour  from other asset classes rather  than the risk 
level of the gilt itself). 
With the above in mind,  it seems to me the portfolio would have been broadly in line with someone 
who was lowest  medium risk. It had 15% allocated to cash  and government bonds, with a further 
32% allocated to a corporate bond fund which, according  to the fund factsheet, also invested in bonds 
issued by governments. Equities accounted for 45% of the portfolio  with property making up the rest 
(8%). This doesnt strike me as being  a particularly  aggressive portfolio, but it did provide potential  for 
investment growth.
However, I think Mr Ss particular circumstances  required a more nuanced  approach than the one 
taken by WPS. The attitude  to risk questionnaire  may well have found him to be lowest medium  risk. 
And if WPS had been trying to encourage Mr S to pursue an alternative to overconcentrating his 
retirement planning  in residential property,  the assets  it proposed wouldnt have been out of place to 
do that. 
However, Im not satisfied  this was what WPS was doing here. At no point did it advise Mr S that it 
wouldnt be suitable to invest more in residential property. This is important because, whilst I dont 
think it would have deterred  Mr S from buying further properties,  it shows that WPS  accepted this was 
Mr Ss strategy. So it strikes me the risk assessment process  needed to pick up on Mr Ss specific 
needs  which was to gain access to his pension in the short term. And given  his plans, I dont think 
Mr S would have been sanguine about short term falls in his portfolio because  I think  he would  have 
wanted to disinvest from his pension before having the opportunity  to recover  any losses. 
Ref: DRN699031820I think  the notes from the December 2014  meeting,  and recommendations report, are illustrative here. 
They say Mr S was looking to start investing in properties in two years. And this was more  than simply 
starting to take some income from the plan  its reasonable to conclude  that the amount he might 
withdraw at that point  could be substantial (which, indeed, it was). It looks like the adviser warned 
Mr S that this would preclude significant investment  returns,  which is something Mr S looks to have 
been comfortable with:
[Mr S] wants  to look at receiving funds  for property purchases in the future   funds  not needed  at this 
time as still working   reinvest  in SIPP  for now. 2 years at least. 
(December 2014 meeting note)
investment expectation explained as 2 years  is too short to see any reasonable returns  and potential  
investment growth. [Mr S] is not concerned  as he sees  this as a process  to get money for property so 
does not expect  large investment gains  over such a short time.
(December 2014 meeting note)
[Mr S] your main concern  was the pensions  that you holdYou would like to consider these 
schemes for potential  drawdown options in two years time.
(February 2015 Recommendations Report)
So I think Mr Ss investment  horizons were rather shorter than a typical investor  and rather shorter 
than WPSs  risk analysis process  has allowed for. I think his investment portfolio should have 
reflected that.  
This isnt to say Mr S had no appetite for investment  risk. Some  of his answers in the attitude  to risk 
questionnaire dont  suggest  someone who was completely risk averse. And when Mr S completed a 
form when he brought his complaint to us, he made some hand-written corrections to say he was low 
to medium  risk rather low risk. Mr S also told us he was more likely a 3 than a 4 out of 10 in terms 
of attitude to risk. So Im satisfied some  exposure to riskier assets would have been appropriate. But I 
dont think the recommended portfolio  would have been appropriate for someone looking  to release 
significant funds in the relatively short term. 
Given this is not an exact science, and WPS couldnt predict  how substantial  a part of Mr Ss portfolio  
would be withdrawn  in (say) two years time, my view is that half of Mr Ss portfolio  should have been  
in cash  (or cash-like investments) with the remainder being invested in a broad  range of asset  classes 
to give Mr S the opportunity for some investment growth. WPS should pay Mr S compensation in 
recognition of this as detailed in the proposed compensation  section below.
Mr S asked WPS to move his portfolio into cash  on 23 September 2015. So there is an argument that 
his portfolio should have been entirely in cash  from the beginning rather than 50% cash as Ive 
indicated above. After  all, Mr Ss actual actions  should  be a reasonable guide  to what  he really 
wanted to do. However, having read through the correspondence between the parties  and Mr Ss 
complaint submissions, it seems to me that Mr S was reacting to market movements  when he decided  
to move to cash in September 2015 (equity markets fell sharply after Mr S transferred). So I dont 
think Mr Ss decision to switch to cash is, in itself, evidence that he should  have been advised to do 
so all along, or that he wanted to invest in that way to begin with. 
Finally on this point, WPS has argued that the switch to cash prevented Mr S from benefiting  from a 
subsequent upturn in equities meaning the portfolio  would have proved suitable, in its view, if given a 
chance. I dont accept this argument. For the reasons given above, Ive decided Mr S was invested at 
too high a risk level for his particular needs  and circumstances. The performance of the investment 
markets doesnt alter this fact. WPS is responsible, therefore, for Mr S being  in an inappropriate 
portfolio up to the moment he decided to switch  into cash in September  2015. That said, Mr Ss switch 
to cash  was his decision,  so WPS shouldnt  be held responsible for the performance of Mr Ss 
portfolio (and any missed  returns) after this point.
Ref: DRN699031821Charges
Mr S has complained about WPSs  charges. In particular, he is unhappy  that WPS  applied a charge 
for the entire amount that was transferred to provider A, even though  a portion  of that would  be 
released to him as a tax-free lump  sum.  He has also pointed us to his Personal Illustration which  
says the initial advice fee would be £6,861.68. Mr S says the actual cost was in the region of £9,000 
to £10,000.
The Personal  Illustration, recommendations report and fee agreement (which was signed  by Mr S) all 
say the cost of the initial advice would  be 2%. There isnt anywhere that said this would  only apply  on 
funds outside those taken  as tax-free cash, and the fee agreement goes as far as to say it would  
apply on the transfer  amount.  Im therefore satisfied that the initial  advice fee should have been 2% 
on the total amount transferred. 
The £6,861.68 quoted by WPS was based on 2% of the defined  benefit occupational scheme  transfer 
value (£343,084) rather than the total amount to be transferred which  was £402,048  based on the 
transfer values obtained  by WPS  (the actual  amounts  transferred  may have been slightly  different). 
The £6,861.68 figure quoted by WPS was, therefore, always going to be some way off the actual fee 
Mr S would have paid  a 2% fee on £402,048  would  equate to a little over £8,000.  Of course, WPS 
also said it would charge 2% on the entire amount being transferred so some of its information  was 
correct. But given that WPS knew  (or should have known) the transfer values  for all Mr Ss pensions,  I 
think it could have done better  with the figure it quoted for its initial advice fee. 
The above doesnt quite explain why Mr S ended up paying £9,000 to £10,000.  Its likely the 
additional amount relates to either  WPSs ongoing charge (0.75% p.a.) or provider  As charges 
(0.35% p.a.). Both of these were quoted in the documents referred to above so I dont think there 
were any further errors  on WPSs part in relation  to its fees.  
I include the above for the sake of completeness.  It should be noted  that my approach to 
compensation means all the fees taken out of Mr Ss funds for the purposes of paying  WPSs initial 
advice fee are included in my proposed  loss assessment which I outline later.
The advice process
Mr S says WPSs advice  process was inadequate. He makes  particular reference to there being no 
follow-up meeting to the February  2015 meeting.  He considers this to be a significant failing because  
the advice report was only sent in the post after that February meeting, so Mr S didnt have the 
opportunity to consider or query  WPSs recommendations. He says there were  no meetings following 
the transfer. And he says the advice  process he was given  and paid significant amounts for  fell 
short of what he signed up for.  
Ive considered Mr Ss comments carefully. First of all, Im satisfied the key points of the 
recommendations report would have been discussed during the meeting. Or, to put it another  way, its 
seems unlikely  to me that WPSs  recommendations  came  as a complete  surprise to Mr S in the way 
he seems to be suggesting.  And even if there were areas that were  covered in the report  but not in 
the meeting, I see no reason  why Mr S couldnt have queried this with WPS at the time  but it wasnt 
until much  later that Mr S did start to question the advice process. 
However, putting the above  to one side, I think  WPSs advice should have  been better and, as such, 
its fees should  be refunded if the advice with regards  to Mr Ss initial  investment portfolio has resulted  
in a loss for Mr S. My approach to compensation does  this. 
Portfolio rebalancing
In September 2015 Mr S asked WPS to put his entire portfolio into cash. WPS did this. However,  
provider A had a function that automatically rebalanced portfolios  so as to prevent investors  drifting 
too far away from their intended asset allocation (for example, due to market movements). WPS didnt 
Ref: DRN699031822ask provider A to disengage this function following Mr Ss instruction to move  entirely to cash. So the 
rebalancing function kicked in, and purchases of assets that Mr S no longer wanted exposure to (such 
as equities) began.
WPS has already  dealt  with this issue. It accepted it had made a mistake and offered to compensate 
Mr S for the losses that resulted from the rebalancing process. Mr S accepted this, and compensation 
was paid.  Therefore, even  though  Mr S has included  this issue in the complaint he referred to us, I 
dont propose  to comment on this further. 
Mr Ss subsequent losses
Mr S has said that he has suffered further losses stemming from the initial advice given  to him by WPS. 
For example, he says his tax position has suffered, he has lost out on potential  investment  returns by 
being in cash, he is vulnerable to a house  price crash and managing properties  is getting  more  difficult  as 
he gets older. 
However, Im satisfied  the decision to move to cash in September 2015 (and stay there) was Mr Ss 
decision. And the decision to withdraw funds to purchase property was similarly his own decision. The 
evidence also points to Mr S knowing the tax implications of what he was doing because  his emailed  
instructions explicitly allow for the amount  of tax hed have to pay on withdrawing cash. 
So Im satisfied there has been a break in causation here. I think WPS could have done better with its 
initial advice. Ive said as much. But to say it was responsible for Mr Ss subsequent decisions  switching  
to cash,  withdrawing  large amounts from his pension, buying properties  wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable.
Proposed compensation
My aim is to put Mr S in the position he would have been in  as far as possible  had he not been 
advised to invest in the portfolio recommended by WPS.  I take the view that Mr S should  have been 
advised to invest 50% of his portfolio in cash-like  investments with the remainder invested  in a range 
of asset  classes (not just equities) that would have given him the opportunity to achieve  some 
investment growth. 
Whilst its not possible to say precisely  what Mr S would have  done, Im satisfied he would  have 
followed this advice. As such, Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr Ss circumstances and objectives  when  he invested.
To compensate Mr S fairly  WPS should:
 Compare the performance  of Mr Ss entire drawdown portfolio with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ss pension plan after allowing for any further 
growth set out in the table below. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would  
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a deduction of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free 
and the rest would have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying  status in retirement  
presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN699031823investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional growth
Mr Ss entire 
portfolio with 
provider  Asoldfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return  Index; 
for the other  half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of the first 
pension to be 
transferred to 
provider A23 September  
2015
 (date of the 
switch  to 100%  
cash)in line with the 
return on the 
funds in cash 
with provider A 
from the end 
date to the date 
of my final 
decision
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler,  Ill accept  if 
WPS totals all those  payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr S wanted some  capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to their capital. The FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Income total return index (prior  to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income total 
return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities 
and government  bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take some risk 
to get a higher return. 
 I consider  Mr Ss risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr S into that position. It doesnt mean he would have invested 50% in a fixed  
rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index  tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable  
compromise that reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained  from investments suited 
to his objectives and risk attitude.
 Mr S moved his portfolio to cash on 23 September 2015. This was Mr Ss decision so any 
losses thereafter (for example, by staying in cash after markets  had rebounded) are not the 
responsibility of WPS.
 The portfolio still exists,  with the remaining amount still in cash. So I think its fair to assume  
that any loss showing  in the income drawdown  policy at the point Mr S switched to cash, 
would have  performed  in line with those cash funds.
Ref: DRN699031824 If the above shows there  to have been a loss, WPSs advice  fee is effectively refunded  to 
Mr S.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to partially 
uphold this complaint. 
If I do partially uphold this complaint, I will be asking WPS Financial  Group Limited to pay compensation  in 
line with the approach  outlined above. I will require  interest to be added to any compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to settlement if its not settled  within 28 days  of WPS  
receiving Mr Ss acceptance  of the final decision. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN6990318