K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC unfairly closed his account with little or no notice and 
also complains about the charges applied to his account.
background
Mr D says his Lloyds  account was closed on 20 March 2019 without warning. He says that 
was unfair  and that Lloyds applied charges to the account which were not in line with the 
account terms and conditions. Mr D says Lloyds made a mistake and he would like the 
account re-opened, an apology from it and compensation. He says he lost his job and was in 
financial difficulties, but Lloyds didnt show him any understanding of those  difficulties.
Lloyds says it sent Mr D a number of letters  about his account  and told him in early 2019 that 
he would  need  to repay the overdraft, or the account  would  close. It says it did tell Mr D it 
was closing the account and didnt make a mistake. Lloyds says any interest or charges 
were correctly applied  and tried to speak to Mr D about his account, but he ended the call.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought  Lloyds  had written to Mr D about the account closure and acted in line 
with the account terms and conditions. The investigator didnt think  Mr D had made any 
payments into the account in the months  leading up to the closure and that Lloyds had tried 
to speak to him about the account.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and in summary says the charges are not in line with the 
account terms and conditions and says Lloyds  admitted it made  a mistake and refunded 
some of those charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come  to the overall  view that I dont uphold  this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions and Lloyds overdraft  charges  and fees 
which I think Mr D would  have agreed  to when the account was opened. I appreciate the 
charges and fees may have changed  from the amounts  in place when the account  was first 
opened but Im satisfied  that Lloyds is entitled to change those amounts. Im also satisfied 
that Lloyds is entitled  to make the charges it did and acted in line with agreed account terms 
and conditions. So, I dont  think Lloyds made  a mistake  here by applying them. I make clear 
that I have  not seen  any evidence that Lloyds has said it made a mistake by making  the 
charges and I think it likely that Lloyds  refunded  the charges made  after Mr D told it about 
his financial position  in February 2019.
I have looked  carefully  at Lloyds records and can see that it sent Mr D numerous letters  from 
2018 to 2019 about the overdraft and asked him to contact it about the amount he owed.  I 
also think it ought reasonably to have been  obvious  to Mr D that his account was overdrawn 
and that payments were not being made into it. So, I dont think  Lloyds acted unfairly or 
made a mistake by deciding in those circumstances to close  Mr Ds account. Im satisfied 
Lloyds told Mr D in advance of closing the account what  it was doing and made attempts to 
speak to him via the telephone.
Ref: DRN66402042Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. I cant see that Mr D made  any contact with Lloyds from July 2018  until 
February 2019 and that he ended that later call without  being prepared to discuss his 
financial position in detail. In those circumstances  I dont  think Lloyds could have done any 
more to help Mr D and I dont think it could assist him unless he was prepared to contact  it 
and discuss his finances in enough detail for Lloyds  to try and help him.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled  to close Mr Ds account and that it tried to help 
him. I also find Lloyds didnt make a mistake or acted unfairly by applying  the account  
charges. And that we cant  consider the amount  or size of the charges following a Supreme  
Court decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6640204