K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Miss R complain that Santander UK plc has no record of their bank account.
background
Miss S and Miss R have an annual statement of interest for an account  with a bank that is 
now part of Santander.  The statement shows that the account had a balance  of £2,114.41 in 
April 1992. They phoned Santander about the account in September 2018. It said that it 
doesnt hold information for more than six years  and, as the statement was over 26 years  
old, it wouldn't be able to use it to locate the account. And it said that it sends several letters 
to its customers  if their account is sitting unused and if it hasn't had a response for more 
than seven years it then looks at giving the unclaimed funds to charity  but it couldnt  
confirm when that happened  to Miss S and Miss Rs account  because it happened so long 
ago.
Miss S and Miss R werent satisfied with Santanders response  so complained to this 
service. The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He 
concluded that the interest statement from 1992  was a snapshot of the account at that time 
and wasnt strong enough  evidence of the accounts  existence now.
Miss S and Miss R have asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
Miss S says, in summary, that:
the account was migrated  to Santander  and there should be information about that;
they havent received any facts relating to their situation; 
there are procedures to ensure that one doesnt lose their money;  and
neither she nor Miss R has closed the account;
and she asks whether  there are different procedures because  they live overseas.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S clearly  feel very strongly  that they havent  received any factual information about their 
account and that this hasnt been  handled well by Santander. But the only information  that 
theyve been able to provide about the account is an annual  statement of interest from 1992 
which shows that in April 1992 the account  had a balance of £2,114.41. Theres no 
requirement for Santander to keep records of accounts from that time and it says that it has 
no record of their account. I dont consider that to be unfair  or unreasonable  in the 
circumstances.
Santander says that it sends  letters to customers about dormant accounts   and that if an 
account remains dormant  for seven  years it looks at giving the money  in the account  to 
charity. But it says that it has provided all of the information that it holds for this account and 
doesnt have any evidence to show whether that happened for this account. And it doesnt 
have any evidence to show  if the money was withdrawn or transferred to another  account.
Santander has no record of the account  so its not been able to show what letters were sent 
to Miss S and Miss R about  the account  or what addresses it used for them. And Miss S and 
Miss R havent been able to provide any further evidence to show that they have an active 
account with Santander. I consider it to be more  likely than not that the money in the account 
Ref: DRN61279012was withdrawn or transferred to another account  at some time after April 1992  or that 
Santander has dealt  with the account  in accordance with its procedure for dealing  with 
dormant accounts.  And I dont consider  it to be likely  that Miss S and Miss R wouldve been  
adversely affected  because they live overseas.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Santander has acted 
incorrectly in connection with Miss S and Miss Rs account. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to make the 1992 balance  of the 
account available to Miss S and Miss R  or to take any other action  in response to their 
complaint. 
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss S and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6127901