K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr R owns a flat in the United Kingdom. He had let the flat to a tenant. Mr R lives in another 
part of the European Union.
He had a home care insurance policy for the flat. The insurer responsible  for dealing with 
claims was British Gas. Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that 
name and I include  engineers and others  for whose actions I hold that company responsible.
British Gas sent an engineer to the flat on 6 March. Mr R complained that the engineer told 
the tenant there had been many  call-outs and the flat needed a new boiler.  Mr R further 
complained that British  Gas didnt respond to his request for a list of call-outs  and used his 
absence from the UK as an excuse for not returning  his phone calls.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt think 
British Gas had acted unreasonably  in regard to what it said to the tenant.  But she thought  
that British Gas shouldve done more to contact Mr R. She thought that if British  Gas had 
handled internal communication and contact details better, it wouldve been clear  that Mr R 
could be contacted on a UK number. She recommended that British Gas should:
1.make  an apology to Mr R for inconvenience  and lack of customer  service; and
2.pay him £100.00 compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to British  Gas on 26 July 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I found British Gas responsible for some  shortcomings in the way it communicated 
with Mr R after he got in touch on 6 March. And I didnt doubt that these 
shortcomings caused him some extra distress and inconvenience at a time when he 
was already dealing with a boiler  problem and with his tenant. 
I thought British Gas had made Mr Rs distress and inconvenience worse by its final 
response to his complaint and by its response  to the investigators opinion. 
Unlike the investigator I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct  British 
Gas to apologise to Mr R. I thought compensation was a better way to put things 
right.
Overall I was minded  to find £150.00  fair and reasonable compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN61799032Subject to any further information from Mr R or from British Gas,  my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £150.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Mr R hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees with the provisional  decision.  It says, in summary,  that:
British Gas carry out the service visits as per its terms and conditions.  
When an engineer  attends the property, he will leave the paperwork and best advice 
with the responsible person present in the property. It was Mr Rs decision who he 
left present. Should he want to speak with the engineer personally then it would be 
his responsibility  to either  be present  in the property  or ensure  that he communicates 
directly with the responsible adult. 
The complaint  was raised  on 7 March 2019. 
When Mr R first logged his complaint  he wasnt promised a call back within  24 hours 
and this wouldnt be the normal timescales.
Mr R chased the complaint via webchat  on 14 March 2019 and again on 20 March.
The final response  given on 26 March 2019. 
Any quicker response wouldnt have changed the overall outcome of the complaint:  
the engineer was correct to recommend a new boiler.
Its service  shortcomings (regarding call-backs  and contradictory  information in the 
final response) were  very minimal.  They wouldnt have changed the outcome  in the 
case. And they wouldnt have caused  a major  impact on Mr R.
The amount  of compensation recommended is excessive. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr Rs policy  renewed in December 2018. British Gas has sent us its policy terms dated 
June 2018 and Im satisfied that they are the applicable terms. 
British Gas referred to its responsible adult clause. From its policy  terms, I think British Gas 
is referring to one or a combination of the following  terms:
Getting into your property
Our engineers will only work  on your property if theres someone 18 years old or 
older there at all times  during the visit
Authority to carry out work
If youre not at the property when our engineer visits, you must make sure that there 
is somebody else present  who can give instructions to our engineer on your behalf.
From those terms, Im satisfied that  if he wasnt there  Mr R had some responsibilities. He 
had to make  sure that his tenant  or another adult was there. And Mr R had to make  sure his 
tenant or another adult  was able to give instructions to the engineer on his behalf. 
I find it implicit that the engineer had to give the tenant or other adult information and opinion  
about the central heating system  so that he or she could make  an informed decision and 
give instructions.
Ref: DRN61799033So I dont  find British  Gas at fault for the fact that its engineer  gave information  and opinion  
to Mr Rs tenant in his absence.
The British  Gas work history says that the boiler  was installed in 2003. It lists about  twenty  
visits between 2010 and 2019. So - in the absence  of Mr R - I dont find it unreasonable  that 
the engineer told the tenant that there  had been  many visits.
The work history says that since 2015 British Gas had been recommending a new boiler 
(Code 5). So - in the absence of Mr R - I dont find it unreasonable that the engineer  told 
the tenant that the flat needed a new boiler.
Clearly the tenant  promptly reported back to Mr R. And I can see why Mr R was irritated  by 
the second-hand  nature  of the news  as well as by its content. Mr R was concerned that the 
tenant might  not renew his tenancy.   
But Im satisfied that British Gas was entitled  to communicate with Mr R through his tenant, 
even if it had a telephone  number for Mr R. And  up to this point  I dont  think  British Gas 
had done anything wrong. So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay 
compensation for what it told the tenant.
But Mr R contacted British  Gas by telephone on 6 March. He was pursuing the option of 
contacting British Gas to discuss  the outcome of the visit. Thats one of the options British 
Gas said it expects  according  to its response to the investigators opinion.  But it hasnt 
repeated that in its response to the provisional  decision.
In its response to the investigators opinion, British  Gas accepted that it said it would ring him 
back within 24 hours - but didnt.  Thats what  Mr R said in his first webchat  on 7 March. In 
response to the provisional decision, British  Gas now says it didnt promise to ring back 
within 24 hours. But it has changed  it position whereas Mr R has been consistent.  So I find 
that British Gas did say it would  ring him back within 24 hours - but didnt.
I accept that  after he made a complaint  the rules  of the Financial Conduct Authority gave 
British Gas eight  weeks  to send a final response.  But I dont think that means that it is 
entitled to suspend normal service in the meantime. So it shouldve  rung him back  to discuss 
the outcome of the visit. Also, British Gas said it would  acknowledge Mr Rs complaint within 
48 hours.
On 13 March there was another engineer visit. And on 14 March there was another  webchat. 
British Gas said it hadnt acknowledged Mr Rs complaint within  48 hours.  It said it would 
request a call back to Mr R from the case-handler.  From its file I dont think British  Gas had 
contacted Mr R by 20 March when he rang again.
The final response  letter from British  Gas was dated about 26 March  well within  the eight-
week deadline. It included  the following:
  its our obligation to update our customers  as to any potential issues or changes  
that could affect  their cover and as we have been unable to contact  you regarding 
this matter, the engineer has taken the next best approach and advised your 
tenants...
Ref: DRN61799034I dont think that helped the situation.  It suggested  that British Gas had been unable to 
contact Mr R and dealing  with the tenant was the next best approach. After the 
investigators opinion,  British Gas told us it wouldnt usually try to contact a landlord who 
hadnt been present at a visit. And it told us  and I have agreed  that the British Gas policy  
terms entitled it to communicate with Mr R through his tenant.
So Im minded that British Gas has changed its position on this. 
Mr R hasnt told us whether the tenant  renewed  his tenancy in June. But I havent found  
British Gas responsible  for the outcome of that.
I have found British Gas responsible for some shortcomings in the way it communicated with 
Mr R after he got in touch  on 6 March. And I dont doubt that these shortcomings  caused him 
some extra distress and inconvenience  at a time when he was already dealing  with a boiler 
problem and with his tenant. 
I think British Gas has made Mr Rs distress and inconvenience worse by its final response 
to his complaint  and by its response  to the investigators opinion. 
Unlike the investigator Im not minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to 
apologise to Mr R. I think compensation  is a better  way to put things right.
Overall Im minded to find £150.00 fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £150.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6179903