K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the service that Lloyds  Bank  PLC provided when she made a large 
cash withdrawal at a branch.
background
In November 2018 Mrs B went into a branch  to withdraw £10,000. Shed pre-ordered the 
money with Lloyds but it had not responded to her pre-order.
When Mrs B got to the counter  at the branch the money was not ready and shes told us that 
the money was counted in view of other customers. Mrs B says that she felt unsafe as 
people could  see that she was in possession  of such a large amount of cash.  Mrs B told 
Lloyds that she was unhappy  with the service shed received.
Later, Mrs B went into a different branch to make  another large withdrawal. Mrs B said that 
the service she had received there  was much better. The cash  counting machine is under  
the counter-top and out of sight. And she was escorted to her car by the area manager.  Mrs 
B has said shed like the procedures at the first branch  she visited  to be more  like the 
second.
Lloyds got back  to Mrs B shortly after and called to say it was upholding her complaint, it 
offered to pay £50 for the trouble and upset caused and £24 for expenses incurred. During 
this call Mrs B told the member of staff that she wanted to make  a further large withdrawal  
from the original branch  and she asked if it could be collected at the security door. The call 
handler said he would get back to her but didnt  do this in time, so Mrs B made her own 
arrangements to get the cash from another branch. The member of staff contacted Mrs B a 
day later than they were  meant to and offered  a further £25 as compensation.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this offer and referred  a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  the case but explained  to Mrs B that he felt the offer Lloyds had 
made adequately compensated Mrs B for its poor customer service.
Mrs B initially accepted this view but has now asked  for an ombudsman decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted it shouldve provided  better  service, so isnt necessary  for me to 
discuss this much further. All that remains outstanding is whether the offer that Lloyds made  
to compensate Mrs B is fair and reasonable.
Mrs B hasnt explained what about  the offer she thinks is unfair.  I can understand why Mrs B 
would like Lloyds to replicate the cash counting setup of the alternative branch in the branch  
where the original  problem occurred. But we cant tell Lloyds to do this, thats not within  our 
remit.
All I can consider  here is whether the compensation paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Lloyds  has accepted that it shouldve read and acted on Mrs Bs pre-order of 
Ref: DRN64760602the cash. And had it done so presumably the process wouldve been quicker and Mrs B 
wouldve felt less vulnerable waiting for the cash.
Lloyds offered Mrs B £50 for the poor service  it gave Mrs B. And I think  this is fair in the 
circumstances, thankfully Mrs B was able to make the withdrawal safely.
Lloyds also offered to pay £24 in expenses because Mrs B had paid to travel  to another 
branch to make a further withdrawal  following  her initial bad experience.  And finally  a further  
£25 was offered  as the call handler didnt  meet  make a promised call back in time and Mrs B 
had to make  arrangements herself. As Mrs B hasnt  added any specific  about why she thinks 
these offers  should  be higher and the offers dont seem unreasonable,  I dont think a further 
award is required.
So its clear that the service that Lloyds gave  Mrs B ought to have been better  but I think  all 
things considered the compensation that its offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And its not within our remit to make recommendations as to how Lloyds runs 
its branches.
Its not clear to me whether the compensation has already been paid to Mrs B. If it hasnt 
already, Lloyds should arrange for this to be paid as soon as possible  on receipt of this 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I think the offer Lloyds Bank PLC made sufficiently compensates  
Mrs B for its poor customer service.
If Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt  already paid Mrs B the compensation its offered it should  do so 
now.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6476060