K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Scottish Equitable Plc (Aegon) has been  paying  a financial adviser for providing 
services to her which she hasnt received.
background
Mrs R has three personal pension plans provided  by Scottish Equitable:
Plan ***896 which was made available through a former employer as part of a group 
personal pension  arrangement. Payments, including tax relief and national  insurance 
rebates, were paid in between 1994  and 2004.
Plan ***215 which was a free-standing additional voluntary contributions  policy. 
Premiums were paid in between  1999  and 2002.
Plan ***866 which was a personal  pension policy. Premiums  were paid in between  
2002 and 2003.
Mrs R had trouble getting to the bottom  of questions she had about her plans. For example, 
she told us she was unaware of the financial adviser  who had been acting on her behalf and 
who was being  paid by Scottish Equitable for services she said she hadnt received.
Mrs R subsequently  raised other queries,  for example about the charges and commission  on 
each of her plans. She wanted to understand the flows to and from Scottish Equitable,  
including payments made to the financial adviser that had been acting for her.
Scottish Equitable  says its responded fully to Mrs Rs questions. It says if she needs  support 
understanding whats happened  on her pension plans, she should speak to a financial 
adviser.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mrs R disagreed  and so her complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
Its important to note at this point  that any concerns Mrs R has about the quality of advice or 
service provided by the financial  adviser  involved in setting up her pension plans will need to 
be raised directly with that business in the first instance. 
My decision  here only focuses on any acts or omissions that Scottish Equitable  is 
responsible for as the provider of her pension plans. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I wont be upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs Rs pension plans were opened between 17-25 years ago. I dont expect memories 
about events then to be perfect. And I recognise  why shes now asking the questions she is 
about her retirement  provisions. Id also expect  any business charging for products and 
services to be able to respond  clearly to any reasonable questions from a customer about 
these.
Ref: DRN61073952When Mrs R first approached our Service about this complaint her concern was Scottish 
Equitable had been paying a financial adviser for providing services which  she thought she 
hadnt received.  She wanted  proof that shed authorised the adviser to act on her behalf  or a 
refund of the payments  made.
Mrs Rs first pension plan ***896 was part of a group personal pension arrangement.  This 
means the financial adviser (T) was chosen  by her former employer. I dont know why T 
ended up acting for Mrs R on her two personal pensions. Perhaps  she found it convenient to 
use the same service.
But its clear Mrs R did use Ts services  at some stage for all her pension plans. I say this 
because Scottish Equitable has given us a copy of instructions from Mrs R when she wanted 
to set-up,  vary and cease contributions on her plans. These were sent through  T and on at 
least one of the letters she refers to it as her financial adviser.
Mrs R later recalled  T had acted for her in respect of her first pension  plan. From what Ive 
seen, I think theres a clear audit  trail which shows it also acted for her in respect of her other  
Scottish Equitable  plans.  
I can understand some confusion may have arisen because after a few years Mrs Rs 
financial adviser was acquired by another business  (C). And Cs name  began  to be 
associated with Mrs Rs pension plans,  for example on statements  of commission. Scottish 
Equitable informed Mrs R this is what had happened.  If she wants  to investigate for herself, 
Mrs R can review records at Companies  House which confirm what shes  been  told.
Following the investigators view,  Mrs R requested confirmation of the commission paid by 
Scottish Equitable  to the financial adviser, and of its own charges. She also sought 
clarification of specific terms  of her pension plans.  
Its widely recognised  understanding  personal pension scheme charges can be difficult 
(Pension scheme charges, briefing paper, number CBP-06209,  30 November 2017, House 
of Commons Library). While improvements to transparency across  the industry are ongoing, 
theres still progress to be made.
So, I dont find it surprising that Mrs R, like others, has questions about the charges and 
commission applied to her pension plans. Nor perhaps that some of her questions  get 
mixed-up and are sometimes rather piecemeal.
Ive looked at how Scottish Equitable  have  tried to answer Mrs Rs enquiries. For example, I 
can see that its provided her with a schedule of charges that apply to her pension  plans. Its 
also given her a breakdown of the explicit charges applied to her plans.  These are direct  
charges in the sense that they apply to the plan by reducing the number of units  held.  I can 
see it sends her annual  statements  about  how her plans are performing. These  now provide 
a more detailed  breakdown of charges.
Scottish Equitable  has also provided  Mrs R with a detailed breakdown of commission  its 
paid to her financial  adviser for each of her plans from the outset. In response to the 
investigators view she sought clarification about  the two most  significant commission 
payments associated with her main plan ***896  in 1994.
Ref: DRN61073953Ive asked Scottish Equitable about this for her. It confirmed the payment of £347.90 was in 
respect of her monthly  premiums, and the payment for £251.25 was in respect of a single 
contribution to her plan by her employer for £4,831.66. 
Mrs R also told us that when Scottish  Equitable wrote to her in 1993  about her main  pension, 
it told her there would only be one policy charge. Ive read the letter  which says:
Scottish Equitable  Group Reflex is set up as a collection of individual personal pensions  to 
which both the employer and employee can contribute. An employee can also elect  to 
contract out of SERPS and use their personal  pension to accept the rebate contribution from 
the Government. Therefore, by using a personal pension all contributions go into one policy
i.e. one policy charge.
Scottish Equitable  says its letter from 1993  about  charges on Mrs Rs plan confirms its 
individual personal pension plans can accommodate contributions from a member, an 
employer and SERPS contributions, instead  of having three different plans. So, she wouldnt 
be charged under three different charging structures  but only one.
While I understand the point Mrs R is making now, and perhaps  with hindsight the original 
letter couldve been worded more clearly,  I think at the time her financial adviser wouldve 
been responsible for helping her understand what charges  would apply to her plan. And Mrs 
R wouldve had the policy terms and conditions which set out the same information.
So, I dont think Mrs Rs recent  interpretation of the letter from Scottish  Equitable in 1993  is 
correct. Im more persuaded by the explanation  given by the business in this instance.
Mrs R has tried to get to the bottom  of important information about her personal  pensions. In 
particular, about  the charges and commission that have been applied  to her plans. I think her 
questions have been reasonable. And while  on occasion her enquiries have been piecemeal  
and sometimes muddled, this is understandable given the subject  matter.
I know Mrs R wants proof that proper authorities were in place,  and the right charges have 
been levied. Based on what  Ive seen, I think Scottish Equitable  has tried to respond  
positively to the questions Mrs R has posed. Its provided information shes  asked for. And 
while it couldve done a little more on occasion to provide fuller  explanations, which  may 
have curtailed some of her follow-up questions, I dont think  I can reasonably uphold her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6107395