K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as Staffordshire  Building 
Society) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out the PPI policy in 1994 when they applied  for a further advance  on 
their existing mortgage which started  in 1965.  The sale took place during a meeting.  The 
policy covered Mr C and protected him against accident, sickness  and unemployment.  They 
paid a monthly amount for it. 
To clarify, Mr and Mrs C say they were mis-sold three PPI policies, but there  was only one 
policy that was then amended in 1998 and 2003. The first amend was an increase in cover 
when they re-mortgaged, and the second a transfer to a different property with the same 
level of cover. There was a problem with the change in 1998  but Nationwide accepted it had 
made an error, and made good  the financial loss. This complaint looks only at the sale of the 
policy, not at that administrative  error.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive based  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  
so, on what I consider is most likely  given  the available evidence and what we know  about 
how Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs C say they were pressured into taking out PPI and led to 
believe it would make it easier to get the extra borrowing  they wanted. I cant  know how the 
PPI was presented  to them  and Nationwide doesnt have their paperwork from the sale,  but 
thats not surprising given  how long ago it was. It has explained that the standard  sales  
process at the time was to give customers  a leaflet containing details of the policy  so they 
could make a choice. Ive thought carefully about  Mr and Mrs Cs comments  but I also have 
to take into account  how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely Nationwide  made  it 
clear to Mr and Mrs C that the policy was optional, and they chose to take it. And I havent 
found enough other evidence to support their recollection that they were pressured to do so. 
They also said they werent told about alternative policies, but Nationwide wasnt obliged to 
do this. In 1998 and 2003 Mr C completed  and signed PPI amendment forms confirming the 
changes he wanted  to make to his policy. He completed an additional form in 2002  after it 
was discovered Nationwide hadnt  correctly  processed his requested change in 1998.
 
Ref: DRN60590202Mr and Mrs C say that Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to them.  Nationwide  disputes this. 
Whilst I dont doubt  its their honest  recollection, from what  Ive seen I dont think Nationwide  
recommended the PPI. I say this as theres  no evidence it looked  at their individual 
circumstances and provided advice on that basis. This means it didnt  have to check the 
policy was right for them. Even if it had recommended the cover,  I think the policy  was 
suitable for the reasons  set out in the bullet points below so I wouldnt have  upheld  their 
complaint on this point.  
Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs C enough information so they could decide  for 
themselves whether they wanted to buy the policy. Its possible the information the society 
gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I dont think 
they wouldve  been put off taking out the policy if they had received better  information.  I say 
this because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits. Mr C 
had a pre-existing  medical condition but this policy  didnt exclude pre-existing 
conditions, as he knows from his successful claim  in 2001/2. Mr C was self-employed 
but this policy  covered  self-employed  people and didnt  make  it any harder for them to 
make an unemployment claim.  As Mr C couldve benefitted  from the full extent  of the 
cover, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C needed  better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
Mr C wasnt entitled to any sick pay as he was self-employed and had no savings or 
other insurances. The PPI would  have paid out for up to 18 months for each successful  
accident, sickness  and unemployment claim. Mr and Mrs C were borrowing quite a large 
amount of money  over a long time,  secured against their home,  and the consequences 
of not being able to make their mortgage repayments would have been serious. So I 
think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs C if Mr C was sick or unemployed.
I dont know when  the cost of the PPI was made  clear, but the policy was competitively 
priced and Ive seen  no evidence  it was unaffordable.
 
In summary  I think its most likely  Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appear 
to have wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made  a different decision 
if better information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have  taken out the 
policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Nationwide doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs C paid for it. But Nationwide has already offered to give Mr and Mrs C 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. I understand 
Nationwide has already paid this to Mr and Mrs C.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN60590203Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6059020