K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) removed cover  for 
his pre-existing medical conditions on his travel insurance policy.
background
I issued my second provisional decision  on this complaint in July 2020. Heres  what  I said: 
Mr H had an annual  travel insurance policy with LV. It covered him and his family. When he 
took out the policy, he declared some pre-existing medical conditions both he and his wife 
had. LV added these  on the policy and agreed  to provide cover for them.
Mr H was planning to renew the policy with LV, and he noticed  in the policy  wording that any 
stroke or a similar condition would  be automatically classed as a pre-existing medical  
condition. So, Mr H got in touch with LV to make  it aware of a complication (brain  ischaemia) 
he had following a procedure the previous year. Hed already declared the condition  (atrial 
fibrillation) requiring  the procedure, but not the complication.
Mr H didnt think it was strictly  necessary  to disclose the brain ischaemia, as he didnt think it 
was a separate condition  rather,  it was a side-effect of the procedure hed had. But he 
didnt want this to cause any issues if he needed  to make a claim.  
However, LV said this would need  to be included as a pre-existing medical condition  under 
the classification of cerebral embolism. This meant that considering the combination  of all of 
Mr Hs conditions, LV wasnt willing to provide cover for any of the conditions  going forward. 
That didnt mean LV wasnt willing  to provide cover for Mr H at all  it just wasnt willing to 
cover any of his pre-existing medical  conditions. But LV accepted  that Mr H might not want 
to continue with the policy because of this, so it offered to allow Mr H to cancel his policy 
mid-term and give him a pro-rata  refund  of the premium hed paid.
Mr H didnt think LV had acted fairly by including brain ischaemia as a separate condition,  
and that it wasnt  now happy to cover  his pre-existing medical conditions. So, he brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She didnt think  LV had done anything 
wrong by including brain ischaemia as a separate condition under cerebral embolism. And in 
any event, she said it was a commercial decision by LV whether  or not it was willing  to 
provide Mr H cover. So, she didnt  think LV had done anything  wrong.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  findings. As no agreement  was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  I issued my first provisional decision in 
June 2020. In summary, heres what I said:
LV was entitled  to make a commercial decision about which  conditions  it was willing 
to provide cover for, and based on what criteria.
This hadnt had an impact on any claim.  Mr H got in touch with LV to let it know  of a 
complication hed had before he took out the policy, which he realised he hadnt 
previously told LV about.
Ref: DRN68443712In effect, LV was saying Mr H made a misrepresentation when  he didnt declare brain 
ischaemia when  he took out the policy. Although LV didnt think  it was a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation.
LV had already acted how I wouldve expected it to act if Mr H made a careless 
misrepresentation. It told Mr H in November 2018  that he could cancel the policy,  and 
it offered a pro-rate refund.  Meanwhile,  LV had treated Mr Hs policy  as having  been 
entered into with the terms that wouldve applied if Mr H hadnt made the 
misrepresentation  meaning it wont cover any of his pre-existing medical  
conditions.
So, what  was left for me to decide was if Mr H made  a qualifying misrepresentation.
When Mr H declared the condition of atrial  fibrillation, he was asked if hed ever had 
a stroke  or a mini-stroke. I thought this question  was clear. And I thought  Mr H 
shouldve answered this question yes instead  of no. I didnt think he took 
reasonable care when  answering  this question, as hed suffered from a stroke.  
LV had confirmed  if hed answered  this yes, it wouldnt have offered to cover  any of 
Mr Hs pre-existing  medical conditions. So, I thought Mr H made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation which LV considered to be careless. And I thought LV had already 
done everything Id expect it to do in this situation.
LV responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. Mr H responded in more  detail. In 
summary, he said he didnt think the medical  evidence showed hed suffered from a stroke.  
Mr H also explained that he doesnt  think its fair for LV to categorise brain ischemia as a 
pre-existing condition, rather than a procedural side-effect. He thinks  LV should do this 
based on the medical opinion hed received; LV hadnt provided  any medical opinion to 
contradict this. 
my provisional findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to reach the 
same outcome as my first provisional  decision but with additional reasoning.  
First, Ive thought about what  Mr H has said about  the fairness of LV categorising  brain 
ischaemia as a pre-existing condition, rather than a procedural side-effect. But how LV 
categorises different  conditions and rates different risks are decisions which LV is entitled  to 
make, taking  into account commercial considerations such as potential  exposure to claims.  
Its not for this service to tell an insurer what risks it should cover or how it should classify  
different medical  conditions, as long as LV approaches  these issues fairly and treats  
customers in similar situations in the same way. I dont  think the medical opinion Mr H has 
provided changes  that. So, I wont be making  a finding that LV has made any error in relation 
to this issue.
Ive had a look at all the medical evidence again, and I agree with Mr H that the evidence  
doesnt confirm  he suffered  from a stroke  he only suffered from brain  ischaemia. So, Ive 
reviewed all of the information  again  to decide  if I think Mr H made a qualifying  
misrepresentation in respect of brain ischaemia.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
Ref: DRN68443713If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain  remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying  misrepresentation  as described  by CIDRA. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy  on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
As LV doesnt consider the misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless,  I wont outline  the 
remedies for that here. Mr H also hadnt made a claim on the policy, so the relevant section 
in CIDRA for remedy would be under  careless  misrepresentation for treatment of contract for 
the future.
Ultimately, in this situation wed expect the insurer to allow the consumer to cancel the 
policy, and offer a pro-rata refund. Or if the insurer is happy to continue to provide the policy 
and the consumer doesnt cancel  it, then one option  available to the insurer is for it to treat 
the contract  having  been entered into with the terms that would have applied as if the 
consumer hadnt  made  the misrepresentation. As I explained  in my first provisional decision, 
this is what LV has already done.
Ive looked at the information LV says Mr H wouldve seen when he took out the policy,  and 
the questions  he was asked. The introduction page  to medical  conditions  asks [d]o you 
want the policy to cover pre-existing medical conditions? And it outlines what LV defines as 
pre-existing medical conditions. This includes the following:
If at any point in their life, anyone on the policy has suffered  from: [] a circulatory  condition  
such as strokes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol or diabetes []
The relevant  diagnosis in the medical evidence says a procedural complication  of migraine 
syndrome, but MRI disclosed small area of ischaemia, left centrum semiovale. The report 
also refers to brain ischaemia, embolism of material, and cerebral ischaemia.
Mr H says that based on medical advice, he doesnt think he needed to declare brain 
ischaemia as a pre-existing condition. But what I need to decide is whether I think  Mr H took 
reasonable care not to misrepresent his medical  history to LV in response to the questions 
he was asked.
I think LVs question set out above  was clear. And based on this, I think Mr H should  
reasonably have declared that hed suffered from brain ischaemia. This is because  hed 
suffered from a circulatory condition. I dont  think  the wording of the question  says or 
suggests that conditions that are a result  of a procedure, or considered to be a side-effect, 
are not included. So, I dont think Mr H took reasonable care when answering the questions 
asked at the point of sale. 
Ref: DRN68443714But Ive also thought about  the fact that brain ischaemia wasnt  listed  as a condition  Mr H 
couldve declared. LV has included this under the term cerebral embolism.  LV has explained 
that if a customer enters a medical  condition thats  not found,  the system asks the customer  
to check the spelling or try entering the first few letters  contained within the condition.  The 
customer would then be presented with a list of conditions that contain that word of those 
letters. 
If the customer is unable  to find the condition theyre  looking for, the system  asks them  to 
save the quote and call LV. LV  says that if the sale had gone as it should  and Mr H had 
called them after answering the questions asked in a certain way, its agents would have 
added cerebral embolism as a medical  condition  when  told about brain ischaemia. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr H shouldve declared brain ischaemia. And if he wasnt  able to 
find the condition  on LVs options, he wouldve needed to call LV before he bought  the 
policy. If he had done so, LV would have added cerebral embolism  as a condition  and then 
refused to offer cover for any of Mr Hs medical  conditions. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation which LV 
considers to be careless. And for the reasons I explained in my first provisional decision,  I 
think LV has already done everything Id expect it to do in this situation.
LV already  offered to cancel the policy and make a pro-rata refund of premiums to Mr H. I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I understand  the policy has since renewed 
without cover for Mr Hs medical conditions.
my provisional decision
LV has already made  an offer to cancel  the policy and make  a pro-rata refund of the 
premiums Mr H has paid and I think  this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, I intend to 
direct that LV should  do this.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the outcome. In summary, he said that:
He accepted that based on LVs terms and conditions, he perhaps made a genuine 
mistake by not declaring the cerebral embolism;
Considering  how long ago it was since he took out the policy, he was struggling to 
remember how much  time he committed to reading and fully considering the wording 
of the terms and conditions, given that hes not an expert  on medical terminology;
At every step, he honestly thought he was doing the right thing, so he doesnt think  
this meant he made a misrepresentation;
He still doesnt  believe LV made  a fair judgement  rather  than a warranted  
commercial decision  in attaching  any potential  future commercial  risk to a historical 
procedural side-effect; and
He doesnt  want the cover  to be cancelled, as hes made past and future  travel  plans 
based on having the existing cover in place  hed like to review this at the next 
renewal. 
LV didnt give any further comments, but it confirmed  its happy to continue  to provide cover, 
but without any cover for Mr Hs pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN68443715my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. And I understand he doesnt agree with the findings 
Ive reached. But Mr H hasnt raised  any materially new arguments that I hadnt already 
considered in my provisional decision.
I accept that Mr H didnt think he needed to declare the brain ischaemia. But what I need to 
decide is if I think he made a qualifying misrepresentation, considering  the relevant 
legislation. And for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  Mr H took 
reasonable care when  he answered LVs questions.
So, having  considered everything  again, Ive reached the outcome set out in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. Overall, I dont  think LV has done  anything wrong, and I 
think Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation which LV considers to be careless.
LV has confirmed its happy to continue to provide cover with the current terms (without any 
cover for any of Mr Hs pre-existing medical conditions). This option is in line with CIDRA. 
So, considering both parties agree  on this, I wont be directing LV to cancel the policy or to 
make a pro-rata refund of the premiums Mr H has paid.
Overall, I still think the offer LV has made  is fair and reasonable. But as Mr H doesnt  want  
the cover  to be cancelled,  I dont  think theres  anything else LV now needs  to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decisions, I dont uphold  Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Renja Anderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6844371