K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  wont  honour a widows 
pension figure  it provided to him. 
background 
Mr C had a pension pot with Aviva. In 2010  he used it to take out tax-free cash,  and to buy 
an annuity from Aviva for himself with a widows pension for his wife payable  after his death. 
The annuity  pension commenced payment from 1 April 2010. 
There were issues during 2010  with the amount of pension payable to him and that would be 
payable to his wife after his death.  I will discuss that further in my findings. 
In late 2017 Mr C asked  Aviva for a copy of his policy  schedule.  In December 2017 Aviva  
sent Mr C a copy of the retirement benefit  schedule  for his annuity  which  it said it had issued 
on 21 April 2010. It showed  that his pension  pot had been used to buy the following benefits:
 A pension of £510.12 a year payable throughout  his lifetime and guaranteed for 5 years.
 A spouse's pension of £881.40 a year payable  in the event of his death  at the end of the
guarantee period.
 £14,813.93  as a tax-free lump sum.
In February 2018  Mr C telephoned  Aviva  to query the spouses  pension. He said he had a 
document to show it would be £1,436.68.
On 12 February 2018 Aviva emailed Mr C. It said that the difference was due to changes in 
the time between it providing annuity illustrations  and when  Mr C actually took out the 
pension. It said the amount  of £881.40 was correct for the spouses pension.
On 12 March 2018 Mr C emailed to say that his pension had been originally paid at £301.32  
as it was wrongly calculated against a higher tax-free cash  sum than was actually taken. He 
said his pension was amended to £510.12.  He said he spoke to Aviva who said the increase 
should be reflected  in Mrs Cs pension in the event of his death and that the amount quoted  
was £1,436.68. He said it had nothing  to do with the time between issuing figures. Later on 
12 March 2018  Aviva emailed to say that the widows pension  was indeed £1,436.68. 
On 29 March 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr C saying that it had been investigating why there were 
conflicting figures for the spouses annuity.  It said that at some point it had provided a quote 
for £1,436.68 but this was incorrect. It had confirmed the figure of £881.40 after it had 
rewritten his policy. It said that amount was already extremely  high, as normally a widow  
only receives 50% of the members annuity.  It apologised  for giving him conflicting 
information. 
Mr C emailed on 1 April 2018 to say he didnt accept this response.  Aviva treated this as a 
complaint and responded on 8 June  2018. It said it was clear it had let him down, but the 
amount in the document sent to him in late 2017 was the correct  amount for the widows  
annuity. It said that after receipt  of other  illustrations  showing  the correct  amount Mr C 
decided to proceed and accepted the annuity.  Policy documentation showing the correct 
amount would then have  been sent to him. It acknowledged it had misled  him when hed 
called to query the amount in February and March of 2018.  It paid him £150 for this poor 
service. 
Ref: DRN61467312In August  2018  Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Mr C had 
accepted his annuity on the basis that his spousal  annuity would be 212% of his own. Our 
investigator said:
Based on this calculation when Mr C's benefit  was reworked  to £510.12, then his spousal 
benefit should be £1081.45 (which is 212%). I know this is less than what  was shown to Mr 
C on his schedule, but these are the terms that he accepted the annuity on. I've considered 
if Mr C would have done anything differently if he was made aware  of this at the time, and 
based on what I've seen  I don't think he would  have. Mr C had accepted the annuity  on the 
terms mentioned above before it was reworked;  therefore he would only ever be eligible for a 
maximum of 212% spousal  benefit.
Our investigator noted that Aviva  had said that the spousal benefit would normally  provide 
only 50% of the members  annuity. He agreed  that the spousal benefit  would  usually be less, 
but said this would be shown in the quotes  at the point of sale.  As this wasnt  the case, he 
thought Aviva should honour the 212%.  He also thought Mr C had suffered a loss of 
expectation, and that Aviva  should pay him £300 for this  an additional £150 to that already 
received.
The business accepted our investigators view. But Mr C thought  that hed had a loss of 
expectation of £355.23 per annum.  He wouldve  taken  out a further  policy if hed realised it 
would be less. Our investigator responded, saying that at the time Mr C took out the policy  
Mr C thought the spousal annuity would be a lot less than £1,436  it was only after hed 
taken it out he thought  it would be the higher amount. 
Mr C asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
On 13 January 2020 I issued a provisional  decision. My findings were as follows:
Mr C wants me to tell Aviva that it must  pay his wife a pension of £1,436.68 in the event of 
him predeceasing  her. He says that is what it told him and it should  honour that. Aviva says 
it made a mistake in ever telling him that was the amount of the spouses pension  that would 
be paid. It says it is prepared to pay his wife the £881.40 notified  to him both in 2010  and in 
late 2017, which is considerably higher than a spouses  pension would normally be. 
Our investigators view provided for a different outcome  altogether. But Im not bound  by our 
investigators view. My role is to look at the evidence with fresh  eyes, and decide what  I think 
is fair and reasonable. Having done so, I think that Avivas offer to pay a spouses pension  of 
£881.40 is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to increase that amount. Ive very 
considerable sympathy for Mr C and his wife  he has been given incorrect information a 
number of times. I understand this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs C, and Im sorry for that. I do 
think Aviva  has caused Mr C distress and inconvenience by providing incorrect  information 
at times, and it should pay compensation for that. Ill explain the reason for my decision now. 
Aviva says it made a mistake in ever telling  Mr C that the spouses annuity would be 
£1,436.68 per annum. I think it is more likely than not that it was an error. This is because  it 
is extraordinarily high for a spouses annuity when Mr Cs annuity was only £510.12 a year. It 
is nearly three times  Mr Cs annuity.  And Aviva have said that its spouses pensions are 
normally only 50% of the first annuity, that is, Mr Cs. This supports  my view that the figure of 
£1,436.68 for the spouses  pension was an error.  
Ref: DRN61467313Where there has been an error, our approach generally is to ask the business to put the 
customer in the position  the customer wouldve been in but for the error.  In this case, Aviva 
have said that although normally spouse  pensions are only 50% of the first annuity, it will 
pay a spouse  pension of £881.40,  which is 172%  of Mr Cs pension.  
In my view that is fair. 50% of Mr Cs pension would  be £250.06. So the offer from Aviva  is 
more than £600 higher per annum than the amount it would normally offer. And Mr C 
wouldnt have been able to buy a spouses  pension of £1,436.68  from another  provider with 
the pension pot he had, so I dont think he or Mrs C have lost out at the point of sale of the 
annuity. 
A spouses pension  of £881.40 is also higher than the amounts shown on the illustration 
when Mr C selected the annuity option for his pension pot in March  2010. And that is what  I 
have taken into account in considering whether Mr C, in effect,  received what he was 
expecting, and was entitled to, at the time he agreed  to take out an annuity with Aviva.  Ive 
looked very carefully at the information  provided to Mr C before he selected  his annuity 
option. Aviva  has provided  a copy of the retirement pack  sent to Mr C in late October 2009. It 
set out information and options in relation to his pension policy. The pack contained a 
retirement illustration setting out four options available  to Mr C. The figures contained  in the 
four options  were based on a retirement date in May 2009  for Mr C. That was Mr Cs 65th 
birthday. The retirement illustration also stated that:
Your benefits will be calculated on your retirement date or the date we receive the completed 
Retiring Now form, whichever is later,  to take into account the conditions that apply then. 
Page One of the form said in bold print that 
This Retiring Now  form only relates  to the illustrations within this pack and must not be used 
for other illustrations.
The four options given  to Mr C were as follows:
If he wanted to take his pension from Aviva:
(a)Option One - Full Pension. No tax-free cash, a yearly pension of £1,671.36  with a 
guarantee of 5 years and a spouses  pension of £835.68.
(b)Option Two  Tax-free cash and Reduced Pension. Tax-free cash of £14, 813.94,  a 
yearly pension of £393.36 with a guarantee of 5 years and a spouses pension  of 
£835.68.
If he wanted to use the open market option  to shop around:
(c)Option Three  Tax-free  cash open market option. Tax-free cash  of £14,813.94,  and 
£15,320.68 to buy an income  from another company.
(d)Option Four  No Tax-free cash open  market  option. £30,134.62  to buy an income 
from another annuity company. 
On 30 March 2010 Mr C sent back the retiring now form enclosed  with the retirement  pack. 
Section A of the form required  him to select an option. On it he crossed a box indicating he 
was selecting  option two. The form showed that he wanted to take tax-free  cash, that his 
Ref: DRN61467314pension would be payable  monthly from 15 May 2009, and that his spouses pension  would  
be 212%.  There would be a guarantee period of 5 years. The reference to 212% wasnt 
explained in any way. However the retirement illustration which Ive set out above gave a 
figure of £835.68  for the spouses pension. Based on this, in my view it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr C to expect a spouses  pension of around  that amount. So I think  the 
amount which  Aviva  is prepared to pay, which is £881.40, is reasonable. Theres nothing  to 
suggest that prior to applying to take his pension Mr C expected the spouses pension to be 
£1,436.68. 
Because the retiring now form that Ive referred to above was sent in after his retirement 
date, it appears Aviva  recalculated his benefits  as at the date it received the form, which  was 
1 April 2010. This produced different figures  for the four options. However option 2 showed  a 
spouses pension  of £881.40. This aligns with the amount of spouses  pension Aviva is 
prepared to pay Mrs C. 
Mr C wouldnt  therefore have reasonably believed, when choosing his option, that the 
amount of £1436.68 was the amount  of spouses  pension Mrs C would received. But it is 
nevertheless plain from information provided by Aviva and Mr C that there was a fair amount 
of confusion during  2010  as to the benefits payable, which I set out below. 
Sometime in April 2010 Mr C began receiving annuity payments based on the 
commencement date of 1 April 2010. It appears  that there was an error in the amount of 
pension being  paid to Mr C at first. On 4 October 2010 Aviva  wrote to Mr C saying it had 
increased his pension to £510.12 gross with effect  from 1 April 2010. Aviva  issued a 
retirement benefit schedule, showing that amount for Mr Cs annuity, tax-free cash of 
£14,833.13 and the amount  of £881.40  for the spouses pension. I cant be sure when that 
retirement benefit schedule was issued.  But my understanding is that this schedule correctly 
reflects the amount  of tax-free cash paid to Mr C, and the amount  of pension paid after the 
correction of the underpayment. 
Aviva and Mr C have  both provided me with another retirement benefit schedule showing a 
spouses pension  of £1,436.68. Aviva hasnt been  able to tell me when it was sent to Mr C. 
Mr C has suggested that it was sent to him in April 2010.While I dont doubt Mr Cs sincerity, 
the documentary  evidence doesnt support this position. For example, the schedule  says that 
your fund has been used to buy the following benefits, indicating that it was issued some 
time after the option chosen by Mr C  which indicated the lower sum.  Mr C has provided me 
with some handwritten  notes of his which suggest  that in the middle  of 2010, when he 
became aware  his pension had been  underpaid, he called Aviva regarding  this and whether 
his spouses pension should  also be increased.  He says he was told that it should  be and 
hed had verbal assurance  that it would be around £1,492. His notes showed that he chased 
up a revised policy schedule with Aviva  for several months after this, but didnt receive 
anything. Mr C said that he then stopped asking and didnt pick it up again until 2018, as 
hed no reason to believe  that the figure of £1,492 wasnt correct. 
Mr C says if hed always known Aviva  was only prepared to pay his spouse £881.40, he 
wouldve taken out another policy to cover the difference  between that and the amount he 
was led to expect,  which was £1,436.68. But Mr C chose an annuity option which set out a 
spouses pension  of £881.40. And although  I accept  that the schedule with the incorrect 
amount of £1,436.68 was sent to him at some point afterwards, the additional conversations 
in which  Mr C says he was told it would  be around £1,492  a further differing amount - and 
lack of confirmation of the amount in a follow up schedule ought  reasonably,  in my view,  to 
have given Mr C cause  for doubt  as to the veracity of those markedly  higher figures. This is 
Ref: DRN61467315especially so when  the original quote, which he accepted and contracted  with Aviva to 
receive, was rather lower.
So I dont  think I can fairly say that, since 2010,  Mr C expected a spouses pension  of £1,436 
to be paid. And even  if he had, its also unclear  as to what form the effect of any such 
expectation of, or reliance  on, that figure  might  take.  Mrs C wouldnt have been able to 
receive a higher spouses pension elsewhere, nor would a higher combination  of the primary 
and spouses  pension have been  available. And as Mr C was still alive,  it seems unlikely that 
shed have altered  her financial arrangements  based on any higher figure.
So I still wouldnt tell Aviva to pay a higher figure,  since as Ive said earlier, Im satisfied it 
was a mistake. And unless irrevocable alternate financial plans or arrangements have been 
made as a result of Mr C reasonably relying on that mistake (which for the reasons set out 
above Im not in any case persuaded is the case), I couldnt fairly ask Aviva  to pay 
something there isnt an entitlement  to under the policy. There  may have been a loss of 
expectation  but its precisely  that. No actual financial  harm has been done. 
But Ive also thought about  whether Aviva  should pay Mr C additional compensation for 
distress and inconvenience - and subject to anything further the parties tell me, I think  it 
should. While I cant take into account  Avivas actions in 2010 as Mr C didnt complain about 
them at that time, it is plain that Aviva has given  Mr C the wrong  information  concerning  the 
spouses pension  on at least two occasions  in early 2018. Ive no doubt Mr C has suffered 
distress and inconvenience because of this. Aviva has already paid Mr C £150. Like our 
adjudicator, I propose to tell Aviva to pay Mr C a further £150  compensation.
I dont propose to tell Aviva to do anything further apart from that. I understand Mr and Mrs C 
will be disappointed, and Im sorry for that. But in my view Aviva have already agreed  to 
honour a spouses  pension  amount that is much greater than it would normally offer under a 
policy and which Mr C couldnt have  afforded to purchase with his pension pot anywhere 
else.
My provisional decision was that Aviva should pay Mr C an additional £150  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience in addition to the £150  it has already paid him. 
Aviva didnt have any comments on my provisional  decision. Mr C disagreed  with my 
provisional decision and had a number of comments on my findings, as follows:
I was correct to say that he had no reason to be discontented with Avivas proposal 
at point of sale.  Hed selected Option 2  £835.68  - SWP 212%. This was Avivas 
figures clearly stated, agreed and accepted with them. No mention was made that 
this was above their normal payment, so he didnt think Aviva  could  make  a virtue of 
that and apply it to this dispute.
When Aviva recalculated his pension  in 2010 he asked if the amount applied  to the 
spouse widows pension and was told it did. This was confirmed by email  on 21 April 
2010 and later,  in 2018.
It was only when  he was told this was incorrect by Aviva that he had reason to 
complain. Hed had no reason to doubt  their figures at any point as it was their 
calculations and he accepted what hed been told and confirmed  to him by email  on 
21 April 2010. 
Mr C asked that the SWP be set at £1081.45  (£212% of his pension  amount) to 
mitigate the loss of expectation. 
 
Ref: DRN61467316my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think my provisional 
decision was the right one, although I understand Mr C will be disappointed with this, and Im 
sorry for that. Ill explain why below.
Mr C seeks to rely on the information in the Retiring Now form  to say that the amount and 
percentage in that form was all clear and agreed. But in my view it wasnt either  clear  or 
agreed. As I said in my provisional findings, the illustrations in the Retiring  Now form only 
applied to a retirement  date of May 2009.  Mr C sent the form back in late March 2010.  In 
those circumstances  Aviva indicated on the form that it would recalculate  the benefits.  This 
is what it did when it issued a further schedule with a spouse widows pension of £881.40.
The other difficulty is that the amount  of £835.68  isnt 212% of Mr Cs pension for that option. 
So Im afraid  I cant agree  that it was clear, as Mr C suggests. 
I understand that Mr C doesnt think Aviva can make what  he sees to be a virtue out of its 
error, since it didnt mention it was above  the normal amount at the time. I appreciate Mr Cs 
strength of feeling.  However I accept that Aviva made an error with the amounts and 
percentages in the Retiring Now form that Mr C seeks to rely on. So I dont think  it would be 
reasonable of me to expect Aviva  to have pointed out at that time that it was a higher 
amount than normal. 
I think Aviva  is being reasonable in agreeing to honour the recalculation of £881.40. This is 
very considerably above what Mr C couldve  obtained from any provider  in the annuity 
market with the amount he had to invest. Aviva couldve argued  that it was a mistake and 
withdrawn that amount.  But it didnt. £881.40 is a very considerable amount above  the £250  
or so per year that Aviva would normally offer so I do think that it is a reasonable response 
from Aviva. 
After Mr C sent us his comments I asked him for another copy of the Retirement Benefits 
Schedule with a spouse widows pension amount of £1436.68 showing that it had been sent 
to him on 21 April 2010. The document Mr C provided to us seemed to show transmission  
data at the top of the document  that suggested it had been faxed to him on 4 October 2010. 
After checking  its records,  Aviva agreed  that it appeared the schedule  had been  sent to him 
then. In his comments  on my provisional  decision, Mr C suggests he was given this 
document by email  on 21 April 2010.  I can see why he thinks  that, since  that is the date that 
appears at the top in small print. But it my view that wasnt  the date it was sent to him on, it 
was the date it was (mistakenly) effective from  the date of the recalculation  of his pension 
benefits. 
Based on this evidence,  I now think that Aviva did send the Retirement  Benefits  Schedule  to 
Mr C on 4 October 2010. And I also now think, based on this being sent on that date, that Mr 
C did expect this amount  of SWP to be paid to his widow after his death. But Im afraid  that 
an expectation isnt enough for me to tell Aviva that it must pay this amount. 
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  that this was a mistake. Mr C wouldnt have been able to buy this 
pension anywhere  else, and Ive not had evidence that irrevocable alternate financial plans 
or arrangements have  been made as a result  of Mr C reasonably  relying on that mistake  so 
Im not going  to tell Aviva  that it must  pay such a SWP. 
Ref: DRN61467317Neither party commented on the compensation for distress and inconvenience which I 
proposed to tell Aviva  to pay Mr C. Having given it further thought,  I still think £300 
compensation in total is fair for the same reasons given in my provisional decision, so I will 
tell Aviva to pay Mr C a further  £150.
I understand that this doesnt  look like a great deal of compensation, in light of the loss of 
expectation represented by a decline in the amount of SWP from £1436.68 to £881.40. But 
Ive taken into account the fact that Aviva  will honour the amount of £881.40 which is 
hundreds of pounds per year higher than what it would normally  offer.  Im sorry to disappoint  
Mr and Mrs C. 
my final decision
My final decision is that is that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr C an 
additional £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience in addition  to the £150 it has 
already paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6146731