K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks complains  that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) didnt act fairly when 
declining his claim for unemployment benefit due to involuntary redundancy, on an income 
replacement policy he had with it.
background
In December 2016 Mr K purchased an income replacement  policy  from Great Lakes which, 
amongst other things,  provided cover  for unemployment in the event of involuntary 
redundancy.
At the time,  Mr K had been employed  by the same  company (J) for around six years.
In June 2016, the Chairman and CEO of J visited the site where Mr K was employed and 
gave a speech. In that speech he said that a vote for Britain to leave the EU could impact  
jobs in the UK. This was reported on in the local press.
In May 2017, Mr K received notice from J of redundancy due to a restructure  of the area of 
the business that he worked in, and was officially made redundant in July 2017. He 
submitted a claim under his policy, this was accepted and the first payment was made  to 
Mr K in October  2017,  this covered the first month  of his claim for unemployment.  
There was some dispute about  the suitability of the evidence Mr K was submitting for job 
searches as part of his claim  but, even so, payments under the claim continued  up until the 
beginning of January 2018.
Payment wasnt made  for February 2018  as the claim  administrator said the evidence Mr K 
had submitted wasnt sufficient. Mr K complained  about this and was told that it was being  
reviewed by Great Lakes.  
Following this review Great Lakes decided to stop payments under the claim as it didnt 
believe Mr K wasnt  eligible for the cover  when he purchased the policy.
The policy wording says:
On the policy start date you must  meet all of the following requirements:


Must  not be aware of any impending Involuntary Redundancy or if there is a 
risk you may become unemployed.
Great Lakes said that because of the speech  given by the Chairman and CEO of J in June 
2016 Mr K ought  reasonably to have  known his job was at risk. And so he wasnt eligible to 
claim as a result of this.
Mr K disagreed with this and brought his complaint to this service to be considered.  The 
investigator upheld  Mr Ks complaint and asked Great Lakes to pay Mr K the backdated 
payments due under the claim and to add 8% simple  interest  to it.
Ref: DRN69616502Mr K accepted the investigators recommendations. Great Lakes disagreed  and so the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
In an effort  to try to resolve  the matter  informally,  I contacted Great  Lakes. I explained I didnt 
believe the speech given in June  2016  was enough  to show that Mr K shouldve known his 
job may be at risk at the time of buying  the policy. This is because in the information  in the 
speech was very general - it spoke of possible future risks to non-specific roles  in the UK 
arm of a multi-national company  if there  was a particular  result to an upcoming referendum. 
And, based on this, I thought Great Lakes should:
reconsider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the of the policy
Add 8% simple interest from the date the payments  should  have been made 
Pay Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unfair decline of the 
claim
Great Lakes agreed  to this, but Mr K didnt. He said that he didnt think the 8% simple  
interest was enough  as he had used credit at a higher rate when his claim had stopped and 
he wanted interest to be added  at the higher amount to the whole claim.
He also said that he didnt think that £200 compensation reflected the level of distress the 
declining of the claim had caused  him. He submitted  new evidence to be considered. The 
investigator contacted  Great Lakes and asked it to consider if it wanted  to make any further 
offer in light of the new information.  Included  in this information was:
Bank statements
Credit card statements
Testimony from Mr K explaining the impact  the declined claim had on him  including  
the pressure this put on his relationship, social  embarrassment, and inability to make  
over payments towards his mortgage or take a second mortgage  as well as other 
points.
In April 2019, while the information  was being reviewed, Great Lakes  paid Mr K the claim in 
full with 8% interest  added. It also paid the £200 compensation I had originally 
recommended. 
Great Lakes finished  its review of the further information and confirmed it didnt want to 
make any further offers.
The investigator also looked into the information and agreed with Great  Lakes that it didnt 
need to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator and so the matter was passed back  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Ref: DRN69616503Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so I have to tell Mr K that I believe Great Lakes has reached a fair outcome  
here and so I wont be asking it to do anything more to resolve this matter. I realise this will 
disappointing and upsetting to Mr K as this is a matter he feels strongly about. So Ill explain 
why Ive come to this decision.
As Great Lakes have now paid Mr Ks claim in full the only issues left for me to decide  are:
is 8% simple interest fair in this case;
should the compensation amount be increased; and
should Great Lakes  pay for Mr Ks missed opportunities.
Ive looked at each issue in turn.
is 8% simple interest fair in this case?
The 8% simple interest award  that we apply is meant to reflect  the fact that Mr K was without 
these funds when  he shouldnt have been.  The interest has been  applied to the whole 
amount of the claim for the whole time that Mr K was without the funds.
Mr K has told us that because the claim wasnt paid he had to borrow money  to meet  his 
essential spending such as his mortgage  payments and bills as he had exhausted any 
savings he had as well as the redundancy payment he had received. Mr K has shown us 
that he was using credit cards during  this time,  and that the interest payable on those cards 
was higher than 8%. The interest on a credit card is applied according to how much  you owe 
at any particular time and how much  you pay towards clearing the balance each month. 
During this time Mr Ks credit card spending  roughly equalled the value of the claim, but this 
gradually built up over time,  meaning that he wasnt  accruing interest on the full amount for 
the whole  time.  Ive  looked closely at the statements Ive been  sent and I can see that it 
included spending  for home improvements, currency purchases and socialising. It didnt 
include essential spending such as mortgage  payments,  bills and food shopping. So I think  
its reasonable to assume that even  if Great Lakes had paid the claim in full and on time Mr K 
would still have had to make use of his credit cards to a degree to enable him to maintain his 
standard of life, until he was able to find work, and so wouldve always been  subject to pay 
an amount of interest.
The situation  Mr K found  himself in was unfortunate and given that he had no idea of when  
or if Great Lakes would resume the payments of his claim I wouldve expected  him to act as 
if he wasnt insured to try and mitigate the amount of interest hed be paying for money  
borrowed on credit  Based on the above,  I dont think he did this. 
It follows; I dont think  Mr K has suffered  a loss due to the decline of his claim which  should  
be compensated above and beyond the standard  award of interest, 8%, made  by our service 
in matters such as this. Its also possible that this wasnt the cheapest way for him to obtain 
credit. So I havent  seen  sufficient evidence to make  me feel I should fairly and reasonably 
depart from our usual  approach of awarding  interest of 8% and that Great Lakes has already  
paid. 
Ref: DRN69616504should the compensation amount be increased?
Mr K has told us that Great Lakes decision not to pay his claim caused  him lots of anxiety  
and stress.  This caused problems in his relationship  due to him and his partner being  
worried about paying bills and being  able to afford  their mortgage payments. He has also 
told us that the lack of funds caused him social embarrassment as he wasnt  able to attend 
social and networking  events that he would  normally have done so. Because of this he 
doesnt think the £200 awarded for compensation is fair.
Mr K has told us that he didnt fail to meet any critical payments as he was able to cover this 
in other  ways, such as relying on family. 
To go through redundancy and be looking for work  must be very stressful  in itself, and this 
would only have been heightened by Great  Lakes  wrongfully  declining Mr Ks claim. And I 
understand this wouldve been  a worrying time for Mr K and his partner. But the spending on 
Mr Ks credit  cards doesnt  support  what Id expect to see from someone  who is worrying 
about how to pay the next bill. Nor does it reflect him being unable  to attend social events.
And I think it important to say that income  protection insurance is designed to ensure that 
someones essential spending  is maintained  its not designed to provide the same level of 
income as if someone  is still working  it usually covers either  50% or 70% of the persons 
salary. And so there  will always be cut backs that need to be made  when relying on income 
protection insurance.
So while I recognise  that this wouldve been  an unsettling  time I do think that £200 broadly 
reflects the mistake that Great Lakes made in declining  the claim. 
Should Great  Lakes pay for Mr Ks missed opportunities?
Mr K has said that because Great Lakes didnt pay his claim it meant that he was unable  to 
make over payments towards his mortgage. He has also said that he wouldve taken the 
opportunity to buy a second property nearer to his new job, but instead  he had had to rent as 
he wouldnt  have been able to obtain a mortgage because of the high level of credit he had.
I dont feel I can say that its more likely Mr K wouldve  done  these things  had his claim been 
paid so I wont be asking  Great  Lakes to pay compensation for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint about  
Great Lakes Insurance SE. 
As it has already settled  the claim in full with 8% interest added as well as paying Mr K  the 
£200 compensation I had originally recommended, I dont require Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to do anything more  to resolve  matters here.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Ref: DRN69616505Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6961650