K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (the bank)  
when he opened  a Euro account.  
background
Points Mr T has made  include:
The bank  told Mr T hed have  to visit a branch with his identification, even  though he 
already had a credit  card account  with it. Mr T would have found it difficult to find time 
to visit a branch  because of his professional commitments.
The bank  incorrectly said Mr T would need to have four direct debits on a new 
current account before he could open  a Euro account.
Mr T found  it frustrating when he spoke to staff members who didnt have authority to 
make decisions. He didnt think it was practical  to try and get hold of a particular staff 
member each time he called. He also thought  the international team was poorly 
trained.
The bank  accepted Mr T wouldnt have to go to a branch and gave him £100 
compensation. However, he later received a letter asking him to visit a branch. Mr T 
was told he wouldnt have  full access to the account until he did this. Mr T 
complained again  and the bank credited a further  £50 compensation to his account. 
He was disappointed the complaint was closed  without anyone contacting him to 
discuss it.
Mr T had accepted compensation from the bank on the understanding no further 
problems would  arise.  But they did.
The bank  sent Mr T misleading letters about  how he could contact  the bank to 
discuss the complaint.
The bank  didnt  make  it clear what points its compensation covered. This made  it 
hard for Mr T to know what  hed supposedly  been  compensated for. 
The bank offered Mr T a further £105  compensation. Our adjudicator concluded that this 
sum, together  with the £150 already paid, amounted to fair compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr T had experienced.
Mr T disagreed and asked  for a review  of his complaint by an ombudsman.  He thought the 
compensation offered by the bank was inadequate. He wanted  the ombudsman  service to 
be more specific about why it thought the bank had paid/offered enough compensation. He 
also referred to certain new, additional  complaint points  about his experience with the Euro 
account  these are being investigated separately and wont  form part of this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but I too have 
Ref: DRN61049402concluded the bank has paid or, as the case may be, has offered enough compensation for 
the worry and inconvenience Mr T has experienced. 
Ive considered all the points  Mr T made  about how the bank treated him in connection with 
the matters covered by this complaint. Ive decided that a total of £255 is fair and adequate 
compensation for Mr T for the concern and inconvenience he experienced as a result of 
those matters. 
my final decision
Ive decided Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair offer to settle Mr Ts complaint. If he 
wishes to accept the further £105  compensation the bank has offered, he may tell us or 
contact the bank direct. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6104940