K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
In 1993 Mr M took out PPI at the same time as he applied for a mortgage  from Leeds 
Permanent Building Society. The building society later merged into Halifax and then Bank of 
Scotland plc. I will refer to Bank of Scotland in this decision  as it is responsible for the 
complaint.
The bank cant confirm  how or where the sale took place,  Mr M recalls it was in a branch. I 
am reviewing it, with the banks agreement, on that basis.  The PPI protected  Mr M against 
accident, sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint wasnt upheld. Mr M disagreed  so it was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
No documents  or meeting notes are available  from the sale.  That is not surprising, or 
unreasonable, given the sale took place over 25 years ago. In cases like this, where  the 
evidence is incomplete,  I have to make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, 
based on what is most likely given the evidence  we do have,  and the wider circumstances.
I cant know what was discussed during  the sale. Mr M says he was told he had to have PPI 
to get the mortgage, he felt forced to buy it. And whilst Im sure Mr M is giving an honest  
account of what  he remembers, I have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that 
might impact  what he recalls. Bank of Scotland says Mr M would have been told the policy  
was optional in good time before the sale was concluded. 
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely Bank of Scotland 
make it clear  the PPI was optional, and Mr M agreed to take it out. Ive thought carefully 
about his comment  that he was pressured to do so, but I havent found  enough  evidence  to 
support this claim.
Bank of Scotland recommended the policy to Mr M so it would  have had to check  it was 
suitable for him. From what I know of his circumstances, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  seem he would have been affected  by 
any of the main limitations of the policy, such as those affecting people  with pre-
existing medical conditions or certain types  of employment contract.
 
Mr M was entitled to three months sick pay from work  but the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to his work benefits  and for up to 12 months. Mr M told us he had life 
and critical illness insurance  but these  products  dont help with monthly mortgage 
repayments in the same way as PPI. Mr M said he had £10,000 savings in one of his 
relatives names and his family would have  helped. But thats  not suitable alternative  
Ref: DRN63604262protection  its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances can change.  I cant  know 
he would  have had access  to money when  needed.    
The PPI would have  also allowed him to use the £1,000 savings he had in his own 
name to cover other  living  expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact  for his 
future needs. Mr M was borrowing quite  a large sum of money over a long time, 
secured against  his home, and the consequences  of missing mortgage payments 
would have been serious. So I think Mr M would have found the PPI useful if he was 
sick or lost his job.
Mr M has said the PPI caused him financial stress but Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest the policy was unaffordable. 
Its possible the bank  didnt give Mr M all the information he needed before he decided to 
buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main  
exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical  conditions  
or on certain  types of employment contract).  Overall, I dont think  better information wouldve 
changed his decision  to take out PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr M lost out because of any problems  with this sale. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6360426