K820x#14complaint
Master C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited declined his claim on his private  
medical insurance policy.
background
Due to Master Cs age, throughout this claim, and the complaint that followed, Master  C was 
represented by his father, who Ill call Mr C. 
Master C hurt his shoulder and was booked  in for a scan  with the NHS. But due to the pain, 
Mr C called to claim  on Master Cs policy  with AXA in order to speed  up any potential 
treatment.
Mr C asked if he could claim for an MRI scan. AXA advised the scan  was something the 
policy provided cover for and explained all Mr C would  need to pay was the £100 excess on 
the policy. AXA then offered a referral for Master C to two local hospitals.  Mr C selected one 
but later called AXA, unhappy  with the referral  as the hospital didnt offer MRI scans  for 
people under the age of 16. Mr C thought AXA should have known this before  referring  him. 
AXA looked  into this but when an advisor  called Mr C back, Mr C advised  there  had been  
some confusion about what scan was required.  He said it wasnt and MRI scan that was 
needed, but an ultrasound  scan,  which the hospital could carry out on Master C.
After the scan,  Mr C complained about  being  asked to pay for the full amount. He said the 
only amount he was informed about  was the £100 excess, so this is the most he should be 
asked to pay.
AXA disagreed, it said it made it clear  the ultrasound wasnt  covered by the policy,  and that 
Mr C would need to pay for the scan in full.
Unhappy, Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought AXA had made it clear 
the scan wouldnt be covered, so didnt uphold Master Cs complaint.
Mr C said it wasnt  made  clear enough  to him, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why
Master Cs policy says hes not covered for any out-patient diagnostic tests  other  than those 
listed. The policy  lists MRI scans, but not ultrasound scans. Im satisfied the policy clearly 
sets out what it will and wont provide cover  for. This being so, Im satisfied AXA has not 
treated Master C unfairly by declining his claim.
Mr C is unhappy AXA referred  Master C to a hospital which didnt  provide  MRI scans  to 
under 16 year olds. As soon as Mr C advised AXA about this, its advisor made  
arrangements for Master  C to have an MRI elsewhere. But as it turned out an ultrasound 
was needed  not an MRI.  This  was subsequently  carried out. In the circumstances I dont  
Ref: DRN61551462find AXA inconvenienced Master C. Ultimately, he was able to have  the scan  he needed with 
no significant delay.
I can appreciate that this was stressful time for Mr C. That being said, I need  to look at what 
AXA informed him about the MRI and ultrasound scans  to see if it gave him all the 
information it needed to. Having listened  to the telephone calls, Im satisfied it did.
AXA made it clear the MRI scan was covered by the policy and an excess  of £100 would 
apply. After Mr C informed  AXA it wasnt an MRI scan  that was needed and the correct  scan 
Master C required was an ultrasound scan,  he asked if he would  still have to pay for the 
scan.
AXA said the £100 excess didnt apply to the ultrasound scan as it wasnt something  the 
policy provided cover for. But because  it wasnt covered by the policy  AXA made it clear 
Mr C would still need to pay for any cost relating  to the scan. It said Mr C could either  pay 
the hospital himself,  or he could pay AXA after the hospital invoiced it.
I understand no amount other than the £100 excess was quoted, but Im satisfied AXA 
informed Mr C clearly  that any cost relating to the ultrasound wasnt covered by the policy  
and would need to be met in full, by him. Importantly, this conversation  took place before the 
scan was carried out, so I cant fairly say AXA misinformed Mr C or lead him to believe hed 
only have to pay the £100 excess for the ultrasound  scan.
my decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Master Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
Master C, to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6155146