K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that an engineer appointed by Ambant Underwriting Services Limited 
(Ambant), failed to carry  out a service to his boiler.
background
Mr N took out CORGI HomePlan cover, underwritten by Ambant, in November 2016. The 
cover provided a service  of Mr Ns boiler.
In 2017 an engineer attended Mr Ns property. In order to gain access to the boiler,  the 
engineer removed a light fitting and carried out a boiler service.  A different engineer 
attended the property in 2018. The engineer was unable to access the boiler  due to the 
position of the light fitting and did not complete the service.
Mr N says that the second engineer  should  have carried out the service  and removed the 
light, as the first engineer had done so. Ambant say the engineers  could discontinue a 
service if there were  access issues. They rely upon  the terms and conditions of the policy, 
which say:
If the CORGI HomePlan engineer cannot  gain access or considers that the circumstances  
to carry out the work are potentially  difficult or dangerous or where  there is a risk to health or 
safety, the CORGI Home  Plan engineer may at their discretion discontinue the service.  . . 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Ambant had acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying the terms of the policy.  Ambant had also contacted the original 
engineer to see if he could attend the property, but he now works out of the area.  Our 
investigator noted that Ambant would undertake the service, if Mr N removed the light fitting.
Mr N disagrees  with the view. He feels strongly that the boiler should be serviced as the first 
engineer removed the light fitting.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont underestimate  Mr Ns frustration  about  the second engineers failure to complete a full 
service of the boiler. I appreciate  that Mr N feels the light could have been removed by that 
engineer in order to access  the boiler. But I have  to consider whether a fair and reasonable 
decision was reached given the facts  and the terms and conditions  of the applicable  
insurance policy. In this case, Ive considered the circumstances surrounding access to the 
boiler and the term set out above.  
Its not disputed  that there was a light fitting  obstructing access to the boiler,  so it was then a 
matter within  the individual engineers discretion  whether or not to continue  with the service. 
I do understand that the first engineer  removed  the light,  but it doesnt follow that the second  
engineer also had to do so. Ive seen from the notes that this engineer wasnt  an electrician. 
On balance, I dont  think it was unreasonable to discontinue the service.
Ref: DRN68900022Ambant have taken  reasonable  steps  to try and assist Mr N. Theyve contacted the original 
engineer, but he no longer works for the same company and no longer works  in the area.  
Theyve also confirmed  that the service can be undertaken if Mr N has the light fitting 
removed before an engineer attends.  As our investigator has explained,  if Mr N wishes  to do 
this he should  contact Ambant directly  to arrange the service.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N, but Im not going to ask Ambant to do anything more.
my final decision
I appreciate that Mr N will be disappointed,  but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890002