K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the recent increases  in their premiums on their home 
insurance policy held with St Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
Mr and Mrs B held their home insurance  for many years. From  2001  until 2010 they held a 
StAIP policy. In 2010 they switched to a different policy StAIP  provided.
Although the home insurance  was branded Bank  A, it was actually StAIP that underwrote  
the policy and set the price. So StAIP is responsible  for answering  this complaint.
In September  2010, Mr and Mrs Bs policy provided buildings  and contents  insurance cover 
with accidental damage. The contents insurance included cover  for personal belongings 
and specified items. The policy  also included legal expenses cover.
In 2010, Mr and Mrs Bs policy cost £500.61  for the year. Mr and Mrs B engaged  with StAIP  
over the cost of the policy each year and in 2013, the policy  cost £502.27. 
In 2014, Mr and Mrs B amended the cover, updating  the amount required under  the specific  
items cover and added  two further items. 2014s  renewal cost for the year was £607.97.
Mr and Mrs B continued to engage with StAIP over the renewal cost  but despite their 
engagement, their yearly premium increased.  In 2017 the policy  cost £819.07.
Unhappy with the increase, Mr and Mrs B complained to StAIP.  Mr and Mrs B didnt think 
they had been treated fairly by StAIP. They say the increases werent  justified and they were 
charged too much and should be reimbursed for the extra they considered they had paid 
over the later years.
StAIP looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. Broadly summarised it said that the premiums  
charged over the years were correct. It also explained that part of the reason for the increase 
was in relation  to the insurance premium tax (IPT) increases  that happened, with the most 
recent increasing happening in June 2017 (10% to 12%). It also explained  that Mr and 
Mrs Bs property  was considered as being  in a high flood risk area and the premiums 
charged reflected  that risk.
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mr and Mrs B referred the matter to our service. 
Mr and Mrs B considered they lived in an area that was at low risk of flooding and didnt 
agree with StAIPs risk assessment. They say the Environment Agency classes their 
property as being at low risk of flooding. So they remained of the opinion that StAIP hadnt 
treated them  fairly.
In 2018, while the complaint was with our service, Mr and Mrs Bs policy  came  up for 
renewal. Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy and took out another policy with StAIP  which 
came in at around  £550. Mr and Mrs B considered this showed they were overcharged on 
their existing policy.
Ref: DRN66676792One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  They  
explained that when Mr and Mrs B took out the policy,  it included  an initial discount which 
StAIP recouped  in the early years.
They also looked  to see whether Mr and Mrs B had engaged with StAIP about the cost of the 
renewals over the years. If Mr and Mrs B hadnt engaged with StAIP   and StAIP increased 
the premiums because of this, then that wouldnt have been fair. But our investigator noted  
that Mr and Mrs B had clearly engaged with StAIP at renewal, receiving discounts in several 
years. 
With the later increases,  our investigator  looked at the reasons for the increases in 
premiums. StAIP  had explained that it considered Mr and Mrs Bs property to be a high flood 
risk and charged the premium based  on that risk. Our investigator thought  that was fair and 
explained that they couldnt tell an insurer what it should charge for its insurance. 
So overall, they were  satisfied that Mr and Mrs B had been treated fairly  in the years they 
held the policy (2010 until 2018).
As Mr and Mrs B disagree,  and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to clarify that within this decision I can only look at the policy  Mr and Mrs B 
held with StAIP between  2010 and 2018   as that was what Mr and Mrs B originally 
complained about to our service. Im mindful  that there was a policy  underwritten  by StAIP  
from 2001 until 2010  but it was a different policy. If Mr and Mrs B wish to complain about 
that policy, they need to contact StAIP directly. However that policy  has been cancelled  for 
around 10 years  so any complaint could be outside of the time limits that apply. 
And Mr and Mrs B, when they took out a new policy with StAIP  in 2018, now have  some  
concerns regarding their most recent renewal and the increase in cost. As this is a different 
policy, Mr and Mrs B need to raise any concerns they have with StAIP and allow  it to provide 
its response on the matter  before we can consider it.
So, to confirm, within this decision I will only be looking at the policy Mr and Mrs B held with 
StAIP between 2010 and 2018.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I think  StAIP has 
treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, so Id 
like to explain why.
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should operate   
and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP treated Mr and Mrs B fairly throughout the time they held 
their home insurance policy with it.
Ref: DRN66676793Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.
So Ive looked  into the policy Mr and Mrs B held with StAIP  from 2010 until 2018 to see what  
happened.
the early years
StAIP has explained that when Mr and Mrs B took out their policy  in 2010  it included an 
introductory discount. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower cost 
than it would charge  existing  customers for the same  risk. This is to attract  new customers. 
Insurers aim to keep the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent years.  I dont 
think this unfair.
StAIP says the initial increases in the premiums  each  year,  were due to the initial discount 
being recouped and the increases in IPT. It says the increases in the early  years were to 
remove the discount and bring the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated  with 
insuring Mr and Mrs Bs property, alongside the levels of cover  provided, under the policy. 
Having seen the evidence provided, Im satisfied this was the case.
So there was a reason for the increases in Mr and Mrs Bs premiums in the early  years.  It 
follows, I dont think StAIP treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
But, and importantly, aside from the discount being  recouped, Mr and Mrs B also engaged 
with StAIP  over the renewal cost,  receiving a discount on the premium over the years. In 
2013, Mr and Mrs B were still paying around  the same as what  they were charged  in 2010 -
which was at a discounted rate. In 2014,  Mr and Mrs B amended  the cover  and added  
further items  to be covered, so naturally  the cost increased. Overall, given what Ive said 
above about an insurer treating its customers fairly,  it seems  to me Mr and Mrs B were  
aware they could  engage  with the cost at renewal and did so. They  accepted the costs each 
time, so presumably were happy with them, and knew  they could shop around if they werent 
happy.
Ref: DRN66676794the later years
From reviewing Mr and Mrs B concerns, their main  complaint stems from the increases in 
the later years.  
As explained above, an insurer  isnt necessary doing anything wrong by changing the 
premium each year at renewal  and this can happen for a number of reasons. 
Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk 
regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs associated with the 
risk. Insurers  often  use independent organisations approved by the Association of British 
Insurers to help determine flood risk ratings  associated with properties  or areas.  Insurers  will 
typically, over the years,  revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined 
models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater  risk than before, the premium will increase 
accordingly  theres nothing wrong  with this.
StAIP says the later increases in Mr and Mrs Bs premiums were for risk related  reasons. 
So Ive looked  to see what the reasons were.
StAIP has explained that in the later years it reassessed the risks presented to it by its 
consumers who were  potentially at risk of flooding. StAIP considered  Mr and Mrs Bs 
property was at a high risk of flooding. So the increases reflected the risk it associated  with 
the property.
StAIP, in its submissions to this service, has said it wouldnt even be able to offer insurance 
to Mr and Mrs B now (as a new customer)  due to the flood  risk rating it now associates  with 
the property. But, as Mr and Mrs B are existing customers, it continues to offer them 
insurance. This seems  fair.
So from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing in the later years.  StAIP  also reassessed  the risk all its consumers presented, so I 
cant say that Mr and Mrs B were singled out or treated any differently. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because they consider their property isnt at a high risk of 
flooding. They say the Environment  Agency classes their property at low risk. However I 
note that in recent correspondence Mr and Mrs B have said that the Environment Agency 
now classes the property  at medium risk of flooding. 
I know Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly their property isnt at risk and have gone to great 
lengths, contacting the Environment Agency, and in their submissions  to StAIP  and our 
service to support  their argument.
I understand Mr and Mrs B will feel frustrated  but their most recent admission saying that 
the Environment Agency now says there is a medium risk of flooding, shows  there  is a risk 
and that risk assessments or the perceived  risk can, and does, change over time. 
Ultimately, StAIP  is entitled to reassess the potential risk in insuring  Mr and Mrs Bs property 
each year. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B might  not agree  with StAIPs risk assessment, but it 
seems there is a risk and it is StAIPs decision as to how much risk a property represents  
and in turn the cost it then sets for the insurance.  
Ref: DRN66676795Mr and Mrs B think because they ended up getting another policy  with StAIP for a lot less, 
this shows they were overcharged by StAIP, and despite the perceived risk StAIP  can and 
did offer insurance  for less.
StAIPs assessment of the risk hasnt changed and what it perceives to be the true cost of 
providing insurance to Mr and Mrs B hasnt changed. The new insurance Mr and Mrs B 
obtained with StAIP was a newer product, with StAIP treating Mr and Mrs B as a new 
customer meaning they received a new customer discount. As I have explained earlier,  I 
think its fair that an insurer recoups that discount  over the subsequent years.  I dont think its 
fair to expect  an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration someone has their policy. 
So the new policy Mr and Mrs B obtained,  while cheaper at the outset, is likely to increase in 
price as well.
I also note Mr and Mrs B have now complained as their new insurance policy with StAIP has 
gone up in price. Mr and Mrs B have  suggested  that the premium has gone up unfairly  due 
to some building work being carried out. They say they paid an additional amount in May 
2019 in regard to this, but September 2019s  premium went  up beyond what  they paid in the 
previous year (including taking into account  the pro-rata amount they additionally  paid). 
I appreciate our investigator tried to provide their opinion  on that matter  but unfortunately it 
is a complaint about their new policy and isnt something I can comment  on within this 
decision. Im also mindful, as I said at the start, that this needs to be put to StAIP  formally,  
allowing it to investigate and respond to Mr and Mrs B. Mr and Mrs B can either do this 
directly, themselves, or they can ask our investigator to do this for them.
In summary,  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs B will be unhappy  with the outcome, but overall, I cant  
say that StAIP treated  them  unfairly with regards  to the policy held between 2010 and 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667679