K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that a claim under their buildings insurance policy for storm 
damage has been declined by Ageas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr H contacted Ageas in May 2018 to make a claim for storm damage  to his first floor flat. 
He said that water had entered  his property through a window.
Ageas sent an inspector to inspect  the damage. The inspector told Ageas that according to 
Mr H the gutter to the rear of the property had become  blocked  and overflowed, causing 
water to come in through  the lounge window. He said he couldnt  see any damage.  
Ageas said this was a maintenance  issue and not covered by his policy. It said that 
occasionally gutters  overflow as a result of very heavy rainfall but there  hadnt  been enough 
rain in his local area to cause this according to weather records.
Mr H says he never told the inspector that a blocked gutter had caused  the problem.
Mr H sent Ageas photos showing  damp  patches  behind his radiators. He was also 
concerned that the inspector was only at his property for about ten minutes. Ageas said that 
was enough time to take photos,  measure the room  and to conclude that there was no 
damage to flooring or dcor.
Mr H also provided evidence that the gutters had been cleared just before the damage  
happened.
Mr and Mrs H brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. He 
didnt think thered been a storm at the relevant  time and so the damage  couldnt have been 
caused by a storm.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover them against all sorts of damage  just damage caused 
by certain specified  events as set out in their policy. The only event which  applies in this 
case is storm damage. Their policy defines a storm as:
Strong winds of over 55 miles per hour which will sometimes be accompanied by rain, snow 
or hail. Heavy or persistent rain on its own is not a STORM unless it is a torrential downpour 
with over an inch of rain in a one hour period (or a proportionate amount in a shorter  time).
When looking at a storm claim  complaint,  the first thing I consider is whether there were 
storm conditions on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened. If there 
werent, then a storm cant be said to have  caused the damage.
Ref: DRN60096782A key piece of evidence  to decide whether there was a storm will usually be independent  
weather reports.  Ive checked these. They show that the highest reading for Mr and Mrs Hs 
postcode around  the date in question was hourly  rainfall of under  half an inch with gusts of 
wind up to 26 miles per hour. Based on the above,  while I accept there might have been bad 
weather at the relevant  time, Im not convinced it amounted to a storm as defined by their 
policy. That means  the damage  couldnt have been caused by a storm.
I know Mr H feels  its unfair to say that the gutters at his property werent maintained.  But 
I dont need to decide that. The important point here is Mr and Mrs H havent shown that 
damage has been caused to their property by an event  covered by their policy, namely a 
storm. In these circumstances its not for Ageas to prove that the damage has been  caused 
by something else such  as a blocked  gutter. 
Mr and Mrs H have also complained that the inspector sent by Ageas didnt record the 
damage behind  the radiator in the lounge. I appreciate  that this would have been  annoying  
to them  particularly if theyd pointed it out at the time of the inspection.  But, ultimately, they 
havent suffered  a loss as a result  of this. Thats because for the reason set out above, their 
claim wasnt covered anyway.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H. But for the reason set out above I dont think  Ageas 
has treated them unfairly  or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6009678