K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Towergate  Underwriting Group Limited (Towergate) didnt provide clear 
enough information about an increase to his policy excess, on claims for accidental damage,  
during his policy renewal  in 2018.  
background
 
Towergate acted  as a broker for Mr Ms commercial insurance policy, and has done for 
several years. During the renewal in 2016 the policy underwriter added  a minimum 
contribution of £3,000 per claim for accidental damage. In 2018  Mr M made a claim for 
accidental damage  to some equipment, but it wasnt paid out because the amount of 
damage was less than the £3,000 excess.
Mr M complains that he wasnt aware that his excess  was changed in 2016. During his 2018  
renewal he says he asked  whether his terms were the same as when the policy was 
incepted and was told they were. He also says he wasnt charged this higher excess on an 
accidental damage  claim  he made  in 2017   so he thinks the decision to not pay out on his 
2018 claim is incorrect. 
Towergate says the 2017  claim  was paid in full due to an administrative error.  It confirmed  
Mr M wasnt being asked to pay the amount  back.  But it maintains that the £3,000  excess  is 
correct, and therefore there is nothing to pay out on the 2018  claim.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. She thought  Towergate  had made the 
change in policy terms clear during the 2016  renewal. She said it was highlighted in an email  
and in the renewal  documentation. She also said that Towergate offered to discuss  the 
terms with Mr M over the phone  in 2016, but he confirmed he had received  the email  and 
didnt have any further questions. Based on this she didnt think  Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators opinion.  He says he never received the email in 2016 
and says the renewal  documentation for 2018  isnt clear. So because no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Towergate acted  as Mr Ms insurance broker. Its responsibilities during each policy renewal 
were to ensure  that the policy was still suitable  for Mr Ms needs and to draw any significant  
changes to the policy to Mr Ms attention. 
Mr M has complained that the increased  excess fee wasnt sufficiently drawn to his attention 
during the 2018 renewal.  But from what Ive seen this change was made  to the policy during 
the 2016 renewal. So the key issue  is whether Towergate did enough to draw  this change in 
policy terms to Mr Ms attention during the 2016 renewal  not the 2018 renewal. And based 
on everything Ive seen, I think it did. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Ref: DRN62777252Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mr M has said.  But from what  Ive seen the 2016 
renewal documentation  was sent to the correct business email address on 22 April 2016  
so I cant see why it wouldnt have  been received. In the body of this email it specifically 
highlighted the change to the excess. And it was again highlighted on page nine of the 
attached renewal documentation, under a bold heading.
Following this email, Towergate and Mr M discussed  this renewal quote on 9 May 2016. 
During this call Mr M confirmed that he had received  the renewal  information.  The advisor 
asked if he had any questions about  any of the changes and he said he didnt. Mr M said the 
increase in premium  was explained in the email and confirmed he wanted to accept the 
renewal.
Mr M has since argued that he didnt have  access to his emails during this call and that the 
changes were not explained  to him over the phone by the advisor. But from what  Ive seen  
the advisor gave  him sufficient opportunity to ask questions about the changes  and he made 
it clear he was happy with the information on the email and wanted  to go ahead  and renew.  
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  I think its more likely  than not that Mr M did 
receive the 2016 renewal information as the call recording suggests. In my view, the change 
to the terms was made sufficiently clear and prominent, based on the email and attached 
renewal documentation.  And I think Mr M was given the opportunity  to discuss  or question  
the changes before they were implemented.  So I dont think Towergate needed to do 
anything more during the 2016 renewal. 
In terms of Mr Ms argument that he was charged  the lower excess for his 2017  claim, 
Towergate has explained that this was due to an administrative error. So I dont  think that 
has any bearing on the 2018 claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Towergate  
Underwriting Group Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019. 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6277725