K822xcomplaint
Mr F1, and at that time, Mrs F1, complained  about  Legal & General Insurance  Limited  
(L&G) in relation  to a claim  they made  on their home  insurance  following a water leak. 
They felt it was handling matters badly; taking  too long to complete the work and doing so 
to a poor standard. Mrs F1 has since passed away.
background
There was a leak at Mr and Mrs F1s home on 12 December 2017. L&G was contacted 
and sent a contract manager to the property to assess the damage on 13 December 
2017. He suggested the claim could be settled in cash. Because the leak meant the 
homes only bathroom couldnt be used  he also offered alternative accommodation to Mr 
and Mrs F1, along with payment of a disturbance allowance to cover extra  living costs. Mr 
and Mr F1 were reluctant to move at first but then moved into a hotel whilst continuing, for 
a time, to spend  time at their home  during  the day.
On 19 December 2017 the cash settlement was discussed and Mr and Mrs F1 said theyd 
review matters with their sons. Mr F2 then took over handling of the claim.
On 4 January  2018 Mr F2 told L&G the settlement was being reviewed, but the family felt 
it was too low. On 12 January agreement was reached for L&G to complete the repairs.  It 
was agreed for work to start at the beginning of February 2018. Asbestos tests were  done 
but after work started more potentially asbestos containing material was found concealed 
above the kitchen ceiling.  Repairs continued  and then an issue  arose with the joists. Mr 
F2 was unhappy with the repair and these were ultimately replaced. A problem arose with 
the replacement  shower  tray. The original one was being replaced with a larger model but 
the original size was ordered, one replacement was also broken. This was resolved  but 
the tiling couldnt be completed  until the tray was installed.
Mr and Mrs F1 had expected the work  to take about a month. In the end they returned 
home in mid-April with the bathroom  being functional but snagging issues  outstanding.  
Some of these issues were later resolved but some  werent and form the subject of this 
complaint. On return the heating wasnt working,  L&G said it was unable to help and Mr 
F2 contacted the repair contractors who resolved the problem later that day.
Further, whilst Mr and Mrs F1 were staying  at the hotel L&G often only booked  the 
accommodation for short periods, with further  bookings being made at short notice. This 
meant that on more  than one occasion  concerns arose over whether  rooms would be 
available for the next period of their stay.  Fortunately bookings  were always  completed 
and they didnt have to move hotels.
L&G accepted its service at times had been poor.  It offered £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs F1, represented by one of their sons, complained  to this service. Mr F2 said 
he was unhappy  with the bathroom floor; it wasnt level meaning the wall tiles and mirror 
look out of line. He said his parents didnt want it to be fixed but it would need resolving at 
some point. He said the tile finish was poor with different colour grout being used. It was 
reported that the shower control was loose, pipes to the sink werent  concealed and the 
waste pipe from the sink (externally) wasnt  supported.  The last issue  had caused a 
blockage to occur. He explained how upset and stressed  his parents had been with being  
out of their home  for so long.
Ref: DRN69697342Our investigator felt that L&G was reasonably responsible for rectifying the shower control 
and the waste  pipe, but nothing else. He said if a quote was provided to show  the cost of 
this work, L&G should  pay it. He felt L&G had likely caused some  delays and Mr and Mrs 
F1 had been caused upset as a result.  He felt L&G should pay a further £150 
compensation.
L&G accepted the findings. Mr F2 was generally  unhappy with our findings. In particular 
he said that the level of compensation, in light of such poor service, was an insult;  working  
out at eight-pence per hour per person. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision, as I didnt think L&G should have to do any repair  work, 
but I did think it should pay more compensation than the increase  suggested  by our 
investigator. My provisional findings were:
repairs
Whilst I dont doubt  the floor is out of level, I havent seen evidence of this. More 
importantly though there only seems to be a cosmetic impact because of this, which 
doesnt actually  concern  Mr F1 who is the policyholder. Similarly, whilst I wouldnt be 
happy with the finish of the wall tiles (and I think L&G should  bear in mind that I think that 
work has been done to a poor standard), Mr F1 doesnt want the issue fixing. I cant  
reasonably make L&G pay to remediate  something that its policyholder  isnt concerned  
about or likely  to fix. I know that is frustrating for Mr F2 as he, and his brother, think  the 
issues should be fixed, but they arent the policyholder or eligible complainants  to this 
service.
The pipes that go into the back of the sink dont look particularly great but Im mindful that 
in putting in a new sink and moving the plumbing the contractor  was acting outside of its 
authority with L&G. It wasnt acting as its agent in this respect.
I havent seen  any report on what the problem actually is with the shower control.  I know  
Mr F2 had removed the original control before work was done because he wanted a new
and different one to be fitted. Im not satisfied that, but for his action of removing the 
original control, it would ever have  needed  re-fitting. Importantly I havent seen that the 
insured damage  would have required it to be removed, replaced and refitted (either 
because it was damaged or because the wall behind it, for example,  required repair). At 
this stage I think its most likely the shower  control was removed, replaced  and re-fitted  as 
part of the non-insured, remodelling work Mr F2 and the repair contractors undertook at 
the property, outside  of L&Gs authorisation. Therefore, I dont think  its reasonable to 
require L&G to repair or re-fit the control.
My view is similar for the waste pipe. L&Gs repairer  said it didnt work on the waste  pipe. 
Even if it is incorrect  in its recollection in that respect, I havent seen that any work done 
on the waste-pipe is likely linked to any insurance  work the contractor  was carrying out on 
L&Gs behalf. Therefore, I cant reasonably require L&G to carry out any work to repair  or 
provide support for the pipe.
claim handling
This claim  clearly took longer than it should  have done. But I bear in mind  that the private 
work undertaken by the contractor has clearly impacted the length of the repairs.  For 
example, despite  agreeing to the larger shower  tray, it ordered  the wrong size. This then 
Ref: DRN69697343resulted in a long debate  about matters before the issue was finally  resolved. This held up 
tiling work. But, I cant fairly blame  L&G for that because  its contractor acted outside  of the 
authority L&G had given it when it agreed  to carrying out private work at the property.
That being said, and as I mentioned above,  there  are some  issues with the quality of the 
insured work completed which Mr F1 has chosen to live with. Hes made that choice but it 
doesnt mean he hasnt suffered some upset  because of the poor finish.
Further, whilst Mr and Mrs F1 were in the hotel for longer than they should  have been  
because of the private work, the insured damage  and work  that flowed from that always 
necessitated some period  in that type of accommodation. And that period was reasonably 
lengthened by unavoidable delays with the insured work, such as the discovery of the 
concealed asbestos material. However,  having  considered what happened with the hotel 
bookings I think L&G handled  things poorly. It was fortunate that Mr and Mrs F1 were 
never caused the upset of having to move hotels because of the late bookings. But I 
accept that the late bookings  caused  them stress  and worry.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs F1 had asked that L&G, although it was providing  them  
with the hotel, to provide them with temporary toilet facilities at their home. This was 
because they liked to spend  time during the day (before the reinstatement work got under 
way) at their home. This was an unusual request and Im mindful that doing  that would 
have increased  L&Gs  costs. But what I see from L&Gs file is that it absolutely  flatly 
refused to provide that. I think  that was unfair of it. I think  it should  have taken  the time to 
talk to
Mr and Mrs F1 to understand  why this was so important to them. Part of treating 
customers fairly is to take into account  individual circumstances and needs  
policyholders are more  than just part of an accounts  sheet that has to be balanced. Whilst 
accepting it was an unusual and potentially costly request,  I dont think, in the 
circumstances it was an unreasonable  one. If L&G had talked  to Mr and Mrs F1 and seen 
fit to provide this extra service to them they would  have suffered less upset  than they did.
Having taken everything into account, and keeping in mind  that private  work impacted the 
length of repairs  and that Mr and Mrs F1 didnt handle the claim themselves, I think  L&G 
should pay a total of £500 compensation. Its offered £100 already. If Mr F1 has had that 
sum, L&G will now only need to pay the remainder (£400). 
L&G accepted my findings.  Mr F2 was disappointed  by them. He said the whole thing had 
been completely  mismanaged   the joists should  have been  down to replace from the 
outset, the asbestos  wasnt  concealed, and the only private work done was the fitting  of an 
extractor fan. He said the shower control  was on a stud wall above the joists that needed 
replacing so it had to be removed  for that purpose. Mr F2 said his fathers lack of concern, 
given his age, didnt mean the of poor work  shouldnt be resolved. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer  is only bound to reinstate a property  on a like-for-like basis.  That isnt what Mr 
F2 asked  the contractor  to do here.  The bathroom was remodelled   the location of the 
sink, for example,  was moved  and a larger shower installed. L&G didnt agree to do 
anything other than a like-for-like reinstatement,  and it seems  the contractor, with the 
Ref: DRN69697344exception of the extractor fan for which it asked Mr F1 to pay, didnt charge anyone  
anything extra for the work it did. So I think its fair to say that private work  beyond the 
insured work L&G was liable for, was completed at Mr F1s property.
Beyond Mr F2s belief,  Ive seen no evidence it was unreasonable for the contractor to 
attempt to repair the joists in the first instance. I have also only seen an opinion  from Mr 
F2 that the stud wall (upon which the shower  control  was fixed) needed to come out to 
facilitate the joist replacement. Im mindful that sometimes non-supporting walls  dont 
need removal for this type of work. And even  if this wall did need  removing,  Ive still seen 
no report on the cause  of the problem  with the control. So I dont  know if its fault is 
installation or part based. 
From what  I have  seen, whilst the asbestos containing material  was artex   and therefore 
usually noticeable   here the artexed ceiling was concealed behind cladding. The artex 
only became visible  when the cladding  was taken down.   
I appreciate how frustrated Mr F2 is by the remaining poor work in the bathroom. But he is 
not an eligible  complainant. His father is the complainant and, regardless of why or how 
reasonable Mr F2 thinks it is, Mr F1 isnt concerned about the poor finish  to his bathroom. 
There is no suggestion that Mr F1 isnt of sound  mind so I cant  ignore his view.
As I said provisionally, I think there was poor work  completed here and I think the claim 
wasnt handled well. But there was work  undertaken  that L&G wasnt  liable for under the 
policy and some unavoidable delays occurred. Having reviewed matters Im still satisfied 
that £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. I also understand that whilst L&G 
sent a cheque for £100 previously Mr F1 didnt cash this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Legal & General Insurance Limited  to pay a total 
of £500 compensation. If the cheque  sent previously hasnt been cashed,  this total 
amount will now be owed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6969734