K820x#14complaint
Mr D1 (on behalf of Mr D2) says National Westminster  Bank  Plc (Natwest)  mis-sold Mr D2 a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D1 disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D2s case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive not seen all of the paperwork form the time of the sale, but I dont think its 
surprising that some  of the paperwork is no longer available  given how long ago this 
policy was sold. I have though seen the mortgage  offer that was sent to Mr D2, which  
includes a section stating that he had selected PPI and setting out the monthly premium 
and benefit of the policy. Ive also seen a separate direct  debit mandate  relating to the 
premiums for the PPI policy which Mr D2 signed.
So while I cant know exactly what was said at the time, with what Ive seen  overall, I 
think its more likely  NatWest made it clear Mr D2 didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out.
Based  on everything Ive seen,  I dont think NatWest advised  Mr D2 to take the PPI so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr D2 got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible  the information NatWest gave Mr D2 about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Weve been 
told Mr D2 was entitled to around three  months  full pay if he had been  too ill to work, 
and that he had limited savings. So I think the PPI  would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong as it could  have covered his mortgage payments for up to 12 
months if he had been too ill to work or had become  unemployed. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put him 
off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr D2 paid on his policy   and whether NatWest 
treated him unfairly. 
Ref: DRN68150082NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr D2s policy  was less than half of what he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr D2s commission was less than half the cost of 
the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission   so I 
dont think NatWest treated him unfairly.  This means  it doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr D2 paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr D1s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D1 (on behalf 
of Mr D2) to accept or reject my decision  before 24 February 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6815008