K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Furness Building  Society (Furness) mis-sold them a regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Mr and Mrs M in 
September 2000. They applied for the policy during a meeting with a representative from 
Furness, when  they were  applying for a mortgage. The first 12 months  premiums  of this 
policy was free.
Mr and Mrs M also were  sold two additional  MPPI policies  in January 2003 and September 
2006 at the same time they arranged further advances.  Mr M was the sole policy holder for 
all three policies and was covered against  accidents, sickness  and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs M say Furness mis-sold the three  policies to them.  They say they cant  
remember the policies  being explained  properly to them. They also say Furness took 
advantage adding the policies as Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have  disagreed to have them as 
they needed the mortgage and further advances at the time each one was sold to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Here are my reasons:
 I have looked  at the terms of the policies  and can see Mr M was eligible for the cover 
provided on each occasion.  
 Mr and Mrs M say they the policies  werent  explained to them  and Furness  took 
advantage of them by adding them within the paperwork. I cant  be sure what was 
discussed between Mr and Mrs M and Furness during the meetings in 2000,  2003 and 
2006 or how each  sale was conducted. But based on what  I have seen, Mr M (as the 
sole policy holder) would  have  had to sign a separate  MPPI  application form for each 
policy, agreeing to have them. 
 Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs Ms recollections are not detailed as 
the sales took place a number of years ago. And because of this and the detail given in 
the sales documentation including a the separate MPPI application forms, I dont  think  
the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say Furness  didnt explain that MPPI  
was an optional feature  in the three meetings.  So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint on this point.
Ref: DRN68712522 Moving on, I need to consider next whether Furness provided  advice to Mr and Mrs M 
or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure 
the policies were suitable  for Mr M (as the sole policy  holder). But on looking at the 
documentation of the sale and also taking into consideration of what I know  of 
Furnesss sales during this time, I dont think advice was given. Furness  still had to 
ensure that it provided  information to Mr and Mrs M in a clear,  fair and not misleading  
way however, so that they could  make an informed decision on whether  they wanted  
the policies in 2000,  2003 and 2006. 
 And based on the information Ive seen,  I cant be entirely  sure that Furness  did 
provide clear  information to Mr and Mrs M in the meetings. That said,  I am not sure 
they would have acted differently (that is, not taken out the policy out in Mr Ms name) if 
they had been  properly  informed.
 I say this because  I think Mr M would have found some use in obtaining the policies to 
cover him against  sickness  or unemployment. Having  it in place  would mean Mr M 
could use any sick pay to cover his other shared expenses with Mrs M. He could have 
claimed the benefits  offered  in addition to any provisions  and it would have paid out for 
longer.
 Mr M was also not affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits 
on each occasion, such as those affecting self-employed  people  or pre-existing 
medical conditions. It is unlikely he needed better  advice or information about  each 
policys exclusions and limitations  and if he had received clear information on these 
terms I dont think  it would have  put him off in 2000,  2003 and 2006.
Overall, even though  I know  it will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think they 
have been mis-sold MPPI for the reasons given.
my decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6871252