K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T applied  online  for a credit card in 2002.  At the same time he bought  a PPI policy which  
would have helped  cover the repayments  on his card for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work.
Mr T says it wasnt clear  the policy was optional.  He says he didnt need the cover.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ts complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr T disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear that Mr T didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember  this now.  Mr T completed his 
credit card application  online and Egg has provided screenshots of what he wouldve 
seen. He had a clear  choice  about  whether to take the PPI and could not have 
progressed through his application  without making a decision about it. The boxes were 
not pre-populated to select PPI.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for 
him if something went wrong. I also havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable 
for Mr T. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
So, I dont think Mr T lost out because of anything Egg might  have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint, so it follows that Canada Square Operations  Limited,  
trading as Egg, doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Ref: DRN68368232Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6836823