K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC lent to it irresponsibly. Ps 
director, who Ill refer to as Mr M, has brought this complaint on behalf  of P. Mr M says 
Barclays didnt offer any help in managing  Ps accounts.
P is in liquidation. The liquidators have said they have no objection to Mr M bringing this 
complaint to us on behalf of P. 
background
P opened a business account with Barclays  in mid 2015. In late 2015  it applied for an 
overdraft facility, which Barclays  declined.  In mid 2016 P applied again for an overdraft 
facility which  was approved. Mr M provided  a personal guarantee. P entered insolvency in 
November 2017.  Barclays moved  Ps account to its recoveries team and called  on Mr Ms 
personal guarantee.
Mr M says Barclays didnt  comply with the lending code and didnt provide assistance to P in 
monitoring its finances.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Barclays assessed Ps application for an overdraft using its lending  criteria. In mid 2016 
the account had a credit balance and P appeared to be trading positively.
hed expect Barclays to respond positively and sympathetically when a customer  has 
financial difficulties  but it was for P to notify Barclays  about  this. P asked for an 
increased overdraft limit, which Barclays declined  due to the conduct  of the account. It 
offered other options which P didnt take up.
P didnt  agree. Mr M said his main concern was that Barclays didnt  manage  or monitor  the 
debt, meet  with them or offer advice to ensure they didnt get into difficulties. He said 
Barclays hadnt provided details of its checks and he suspects it was an automated decision. 
Hed like the evidence to be provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Banks lending  criteria  are commercially sensitive. I wouldnt expect Barclays  to provide 
details of its lending  criteria or the checks  it makes before lending to Mr M and I dont think 
its reasonable for me to require this.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Barclays didnt carry out checks  in accordance with its 
criteria before deciding  whether  to lend to P. I dont think the fact that P made an application 
online means checks werent carried out. 
Ref: DRN62237542P made applications  for an overdraft facility in late 2016, which  were  declined. Mr M says 
Barclays didnt offer other options or give advice about government schemes. Barclays  says 
other forms of lending to P would have been subject to the same criteria  (so would likely 
have been declined) at that time. I think,  if Ps directors needed financial advice, they could  
have sought this from a financial adviser  or accountant. I dont think  Barclays  had to offer 
financial advice to Ps directors. 
P made another  application for an overdraft  facility in June 2016,  which  Barclays agreed. 
P agreed  to the terms of the overdraft. And Mr M supported the lending by providing a 
personal guarantee. I think  its reasonable to assume that Ps directors had decided an 
overdraft facility would be of benefit  to P.
Mr M says Barclays didnt  give P assistance in monitoring  its accounts. Account holders are 
responsible for managing their accounts. Mr M used online banking  and theres  no 
suggestion Ps directors didnt have access to statements and other information about Ps 
accounts. Its not clear  to me what assistance  Mr M believes Barclays should have offered 
and theres no evidence that he requested such assistance. Barclays discussed the conduct 
of the account  with Mr M: its notes say that Mr M told it P was having difficulty collecting 
invoices, but Mr M didnt take up its offer to discuss invoice  discounting.  
Overall, I cant see that Barclays has made  an error here. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6223754