K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 September 2020.  The background 
and circumstances  of the case and the reasons I was minded  to uphold it were  set out in that
decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider.
Neither Alexander  David Securities Limited  or Mr L/his  representatives  provided  any further 
evidence or arguments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision attached, my final decision is that I uphold
Mr Ls complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L as set
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN66783292Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr L has complained  about the advice he was given  by St Pauls  Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment. In summary, she 
explained that Mr L received  an e-mail from St Pauls Marketing in January 2016 offering a pension 
review. 
Part of the e-mail read The reason that we promote the idea of a pension summary is to highlight to 
you that you might potentially  consider  investing into our corporate client, Just Finance Loans and 
Investments Plcs (Just Finance) debenture bond (a loan from you to Just Finance), through  your 
pension if your pension fund isn't achieving  say 8.25% pa. People are able to invest into the Just 
Finance debenture  bond by way of a Self-Invested Pension  Plan ('SIPP'), and in due course  we can 
introduce you to a SIPP provider if you would like us to.
The investigator said Mr L spoke to St Pauls Marketings  representative on the phone. Mr L had 
stopped paying into the existing  plan and St Pauls Marketing  said that if he left his pension where it 
was it would  lose money.  He said he was sent papers  to sign and return  through  the post. 
The transfer  was completed in May 2016 with approximately £26,700 transferred to the SIPP.  As part 
of the process a stockbroker  account was opened and just under  £26,000 was paid into it and 
invested in Just Loans  debentures.  
Mr L, through his representative,  complained to Alexander David in November 2018.  I understand 
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint.  The representative subsequently 
referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David  for its files and to provide  any other evidence  
it wanted us to take into account. However no files or evidence or arguments were received.  
The investigator noted  that the SIPP provider  had introduced Mr L to the SIPP.  Mr L had said St Pauls 
Marketing had reviewed  his existing  pension plans with the prospective Just Loans investment and 
said the Just Loans investment was performing much better. She said given it was clear that St Pauls  
Marketing had requested ceding information from one of Mr Ls pension  schemes she thought  Mr Ls 
version of events rung true. She thought  the review  of the returns  of the two schemes would 
constitute a recommendation because such a comparison  was always  likely to show that one 
investment was 'better' than the other. She said it was difficult  to imagine a discussion about  two 
competing investments  without St Pauls Marketing recommending that the 'better' performing one, in 
this case  Just Loans, be taken.
She said Mr L had said this was what had happened. The investments  were specific to Mr L, because  
it involved looking at the performance of his plans  in relation to his objectives. So the investigator 
thought St Pauls  had made a personal recommendation to Mr L. And she didnt think that Mr L had 
the background and knowledge to have arranged  the transfer and invested in these investments 
himself. 
The Just Loans investment  was issued by a single company which she understood was concerned 
entirely with peer to peer lending and was first incorporated in December 2014.  So when St Pauls  
Marketing approached Mr L it had only been in existence for about eighteen months. She said it was 
a new company in a fledgling industry, and Mr Ls entire retirement provision had been  invested into 
it. 
Ref: DRN66783293The investigator said Mr L was a relatively inexperienced investor. The pension transferred  was his 
only pension. He was self-employed with an annual  income of around £25,000. He held no other 
investments and had only had cash savings  accounts in the past. The investigator thought the Just 
Loans investment was speculative and unsuitable for Mr L, and therefore she thought that the 
complaint should be upheld.
She sent her assessment of it to Alexander David. However it didnt  provide a response.  The 
investigator subsequently wrote to both parties on 31 July 2020 explaining that the complaint would 
be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make a final decision.  No further evidence or 
arguments have been provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr Ls original complaint.  Neither did it co-operate with our 
investigation. Theres  only very limited evidence  available to establish  what  happened at the time of 
the transaction.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Ls recollection  of events. 
Alexander David hasnt disputed what Mr L said in his complaint to it, or what the investigator said in 
her assessment.
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments.
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each  
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Mr L has said about  St Pauls role is consistent  with what  
other complainants  have  described. So I think what he has said is plausible.  And taking  everything 
into account,  I have found it credible. 
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence  that is available that St Pauls Marketing was involved 
from the outset.  Following its input Mr L subsequently transferred his pension to the SIPP and 
invested in the debentures. In my experience  its unusual  for someone of Mr Ls background and 
experience to want to transfer an existing  pension in order to invest in this type of investment  without 
prompting. I think it was unlikely to have  happened  without the involvement  of St Pauls. Im satisfied 
that it initiated the transfer  and investment in the debenture. It was aware  of where the investment 
was going to be made  and facilitated it. 
Mr L has said St Pauls Marketing  advised him to switch his existing pensions to the SIPP.  The firm 
hasnt disputed  this. In all the circumstances  and on the balance of the limited evidence that is 
available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls did advise Mr L to transfer and invest in the 
debentures. And given the significant risks presented by the investment I dont think it was suitable  for 
Mr L in his circumstances.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr L I think the evidence  shows it was 
involved in arranging the transaction. It was the promoter for the debenture,  but Im satisfied, on the 
limited evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the 
investment. 
My understanding is that the debentures were a non-readily realisable security.  Conduct of Business  
Rule (COBS) 10 said:
Ref: DRN66783294This chapter applies to a firm which  arranges or deals  in relation to a non-readily realisable security, 
derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought  reasonably  to be 
aware, that the application  or order is in response to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess  Mr Ls knowledge and experience  in the investment 
field relevant  to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could assess 
whether the debentures  were appropriate for Mr L. 
The investigator said Mr L had no significant investment  knowledge or experience of making  
investments of this nature and Alexander  David hasnt disputed this. And Ive seen no evidence of Mr 
L having a history of making this type of investment.  
The debenture  presented significant risks and was speculative. In my view it wasnt appropriate for Mr 
L given  his background, knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls 
Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances  of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the debentures 
werent suitable  or appropriate for Mr L. I also dont  think  the firm treated Mr L fairly or acted  in his 
best interests as required  by the FCAs Principles and COBS  2.1.1. Im satisfied that if St Pauls  hadnt 
advised Mr L to transfer and invest in the debentures or if it had told him they werent suitable  or 
appropriate for him, he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls failures caused  Mr L to transfer and invest in a product that he 
would otherwise not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied  its failures  caused the losses that 
Mr L has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I intend to order  Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L on the following  basis.
 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. I dont think  he would have 
transferred, but I think  Mr L would have invested differently given his circumstances and that in 
making his complaint his representative said that he was a lower risk investor. Mr L has said he was 
happy with a low-medium  risk but also the balanced risk that his existing pension  was exposed  to.
Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable  given Mr Ls circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr L fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance  of Mr Ls investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value , there is a loss and compensation 
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr Ls pension  plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David  Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
Ref: DRN66783295If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Ls pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. The notional  allowance should be calculated using  Mr Ls actual 
or expected  marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think  Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the reduction should 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr L would  have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience the disruption to his retirement 
planning has caused. 
Provide details of the calculation  to Mr L in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr L how much  it has taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)    to
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate of 
decision  8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made  within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Ls
acceptance  of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date. 
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should  be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Ltd should  take
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension
Ref: DRN66783296provider / administrator. This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the investment its value should be
assumed to be nil for the purpose  of calculation.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr L provides an undertaking  to pay
it any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must allow
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension plan.
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month.  Those  rates should  be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Five years  SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists  because  of the Just Loans investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further SIPP  fees prevented,  this investment  needs to be removed.  But if they cant be sold or 
Alexander David can't  buy them Mr L is faced  with future SIPP fees.  I think  it is fair to assume five 
years' of future  SIPP  fees. So, if Alexander  David  can't  buy the investment or it cant  be sold it should  
pay an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff. This is in addition  to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
The evidence  provided about the degree of risk that Mr L was willing to take is inconsistent. In making 
his complaint Mr Ls representative has said he was a low risk investor.  Mr L has said he was willing 
to take a low-medium risk but was also happy with the balanced  risk presented  by his original 
pension. I think his circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for 
risk.
I dont think Mr L would have  transferred with suitable advice. And I dont know exactly how Mr L 
would have invested if he had been suitably advised  even if he had remained with his original 
scheme. However I think the index I have outlined  above is an appropriate benchmark and is a 
reasonable proxy for someone of Mr Ls age who has a number of years  to retirement; is willing  to 
accept some risk but has limited capacity for risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
Ref: DRN66783297asset classes,  mainly UK equities and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ls risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was prepared  to take 
some risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably  put 
Mr L into that position.  It does not mean that Mr L would  have invested 50% of his money in a 
fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index  tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr L could  have obtained  from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6678329