K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about an instalment loan, for £350,  Lending Stream provided to Mr B in 
September 2013. Mr B was due to repay  this loan over six instalments,  the highest  
instalment payment was £189.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint as they didnt think  Mr B had been treated  
unfairly. Mr B disagreed and so this case  was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks  to understand 
whether Mr B could  repay his loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low, the 
amount lent was high,  where theres  a greater number and frequency  of loans, and the 
longer the period of time during which a customer has been  given loans. 
Lending Stream has said before it lent to Mr B, it checked his income  and expenses. From 
the information it has provided,  Mr B declared his income as £1,600 and his expenses  as 
£750 in total  this expenses figure included £250 for Mr Bs credit commitments.  This 
information suggests that Mr B had sufficient disposable income  to sustainably repay the 
loan over the term. Lending  Stream  also says that it used a third party credit reference  
agency to search  Mr Bs credit file and the search returned a rating it found  satisfactory  to 
lend. 
Mr B hasnt accepted  the adjudicators view because he says his credit  file would have 
shown that hed been borrowing from other lenders and couldnt afford  the loan. 
Its important for me to explain that while Lending  Stream was expected  to carry out checks 
before lending, these werent prescriptive. And it didnt  have  to carry out a credit check and if 
it did, it didnt have  to search Mr Bs file to any specified extent. 
Lending Stream provided a third party credit  score obtained from the credit check, it hasnt 
provided information to show  that it searched  further into Mr Bs file. At this stage of the 
lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lending Stream  to rely on what  
Mr B told it about his circumstances. Given the loan amount and the information 
Mr B told lending  Stream about his income  and expenses, I dont Lending Stream  shouldve  
Ref: DRN65121002been checking Mr Bs short term commitments at this stage as I dont think that level of 
check would  have been proportionate  to the circumstances of this loan. 
I think Lending Streams checks went far enough  and based  on those checks, it was 
reasonable for Lending Stream to lend to Mr B.
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly  about  his submissions and Im sorry to see that he had 
such a difficult time dealing with the impact of his loans. So I know that my conclusions are 
likely to disappoint him but I hope  my explanation will help him understand why I dont think 
Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to him.
I can see that Mr B still has an outstanding balance on his loan and Id remind 
Lending Stream about treating Mr B sympathetically  and positively while working with him to 
come to a suitable repayment arrangement on the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no awards against 
Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6512100