K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans that Quick Quid  provided to Mrs B from December  
2008 onwards.  Mrs Bs last loan was provided in April 2013.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Bs complaint  and thought  the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  provided. 
Quick Quid disagreed. It thought that it shouldnt  have provided loans two and three as well 
as loans five to eight and agreed to put things right for those loans. But it didnt agree with 
our adjudicators view on loans four and nine. As Mrs B didnt accept Quick Quids offer the 
complaint was passed to me.
Quick Quid has already accepted that it shouldnt have provided loans two and three  to    
Mrs B. So this decision is only looking at whether  loans four to nine should  have been 
provided. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN69006522Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Mrs B 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG)  defines in 
a sustainable  manner as being  without undue difficulties and in particular without incurring or 
increasing problem  indebtedness,  over the life of the credit  agreement and out of income 
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs B, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mrs B was unlikely to have been able to make 
her loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this 
because:
By this stage, Mrs B had owed Quick Quid money for a pretty much unbroken period 
of approaching 18 months.  In my view,  Mrs B owing Quick Quid money for this period 
of time was in itself a clear demonstration of Mrs Bs inability to settle  her loans over 
the life of the credit agreement.  
loan nine was provided the same day as loan eight. Mrs B had taken six months  to 
settle loan eight and she was borrowing more  than shed  proven unable to repay on 
time. So I think that Quick  Quid ought to have realised that Mrs B was borrowing to 
cover the hole the eventual repayment  of her previous loan left in her finances and 
that her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
loan nine was provided more than four years after Mrs Bs first. And it was for almost 
six times the amount. Mrs B had paid large  amounts of interest  for a period that 
cannot in any circumstances be reasonably described as short-term to, in effect, 
service an increasing  debt to Quick  Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs B lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
Ref: DRN69006523the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Bs ability to access mainstream  
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about four to nine and Quick Quid  should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans four to nine (as well as loans  two 
and three as it has agreed to do);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mrs B owed Quick Quid money means  that any information still 
recorded about loans four to nine is adverse.  So all entries about loans four to nine 
should be removed  from Mrs Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6900652