K820x#14complaint
Mr F says The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Fs credit card account although both parties  are not sure where the sale took place.
Mr F believes RBS mis-sold him PPI. He says he had no need for it due to his sick pay. He 
also says if the costs, benefits or optionality had been made clearer  to him then he would 
have turned the policy down. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  because:
 I think RBS made Mr F aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say 
this because, although I cant be sure what was said between both parties, I can see 
on an application form, PPI is presented  as optional.  On this form a box is ticked to 
indicate that Mr F wanted to take the policy out. It says for cover just tick this box. So 
on seeing this and also considering what I know of RBS sales at that time, I am 
satisfied Mr F was given a choice to have PPI.
 RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. RBS did have to ensure  that the information it gave Mr F was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
 It is possible the information RBS gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think he would have taken the policy anyway. I say this because  Mr F 
has told us that he was entitled to 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay within his 
employment at the time of sale. But the policy would have paid more than his minimum 
credit card repayments  in addition to this sick pay, for up to 12 months  if he couldnt 
work, providing  a useful extra benefit at a difficult time. He doesnt  appear to have had 
significant other  means to make his credit card repayments if he couldnt work,  at least 
not enough that it would have put him off from having the insurance.  
 I also dont think on this occasion Mr F was affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations within the policy such as those given  for pre-existing  medical conditions.  
 The PPI policy was competitively priced  and affordable. 
Ref: DRN66070192So I think it unlikely Mr F would have  made  a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr F, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr F any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6607019