K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that Equiniti Financial  Services Limited (Equiniti) gave them  
incorrect information on 19 May 2017  that Capital Gains Tax (CGT) would not apply to the 
sale of Mrs Ts shareholding at the time (which was subject to a corporate action). 
They say they then learnt from Equiniti,  in January  2018, that this was incorrect. They also 
say this notice  was too late and the CGT  liability was incurred.  They want  compensation for 
the CGT liability.
background
Equiniti did not uphold  the complaint. It referred  to telephone recording evidence and said, in 
the main,  the following:
It accepts  that Mrs T was misinformed during a specific telephone call on 19 May 
2017. The person she spoke to was wrong  to have misinformed her, especially as it 
provided an execution  only service in which it gave no advice. To apologise for this it 
offered £250 each  to Mr and Mrs T. However, the misinformation does not establish  
its responsibility for the CGT related compensation they seek.
Mrs Ts enquiry was about transferring the proceeds of the sale from the 
shareholding into an ISA and the discussion between  the parties (including her 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA)) in this respect began  in September 2016.  
During a conversation with her IFA on 20 September 2016 and in response  to an 
enquiry about  transferring the holding into an ISA he was correctly informed about 
the Bed and ISA process in which the holding could be sold and the proceeds could 
be transferred into an ISA, from which they could be used to buy back  the holding.
The misinformation  on 19 May does not appear  to have influenced Mrs Ts position, 
she sought to transfer  the holding to an ISA prior to it and still made  efforts to do so 
thereafter, the sale of the holding was therefore  inevitable (as was the CGT).  
Mr and Mrs T did not accept this outcome and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  it and concluded  that the complaint should not be upheld, for 
broadly similar reasons to those  given by Equiniti. 
He too referred  to the telephone recording evidence that had been shared  with us. He did 
not accept Mrs Ts claim that she was not made aware of the Bed and ISA process and that 
she would  have acted  differently with the holding if she had known about it. Based on the 
telephone recording  evidence he noted  that this process had been shared with her IFA in 
September 2016 as Equiniti says and that it was shared again with her during another  
conversation that took place on 19 May 2017  during which it was asked about  CGT  but 
refused to comment or give advice on it. This happened  before the conversation, on the 
same date, in which it misinformed her about  CGT.
The investigator was satisfied that the misinformation did not outweigh the correct 
information that was given  to Mrs T about  the Bed and ISA process in September 2016 and 
in May 2017,  and that Equinitis offer of £250  each for Mr and Mrs T was reasonable for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the misinformation.  Mr and Mrs T disagreed with this outcome 
and disputed the investigators  findings.  The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN61675972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigators based on broadly the same  points made  by him and by 
Equiniti.
My first observation  which, like my findings,  is mainly based on the telephone recording 
evidence  is that Mrs T and her IFA appear  to have been pre-determined on what they 
wanted to do within the corporate  action and in terms of the shareholding. The corporate 
action was an acquisition.  Mrs T had the option  of selling her holding  in this context. Within  
the same  context, the shareholding could  be compulsorily purchased.  From around  the 
outset  that is, the telephone conversation in September 2016   Mrs T was clear that she 
wanted to sell the holding and/or transfer it to an ISA, that she wanted to avoid CGT and that 
she was being  assisted by her IFA. 
Contact with Equiniti  does  not appear to have been  for the purpose of seeking advice or 
guidance. It appears to have been  for the purpose  of finding out how Mrs Ts plan could be 
executed by Equiniti. I note the following from the conversation on 20 September  2016:
The conversation  featured  both Mrs T and her IFA, the IFA began the conversation 
with Equiniti and confirmed  that Mrs T was in the same room,  Mrs T then briefly 
identified herself and then the IFA continued  the conversation  presumably in Mrs 
Ts presence.
The IFA proceeded to explain that the shareholding was to be sold,  that  obviously 
we are looking to minimise  the  capital gains tax  and that Mrs T wanted to wrap 
the shares in an ISA  to minimise the taxation 
Equiniti then referred to and explained  the Bed and ISA process, it also referred  to 
the forms that were  relevant to this.
I note the following from one of the early conversations  on 19 May 2017, between Mrs T and 
Equiniti:
Equiniti summarised  her instruction at the time as being the sale of shares  from the 
holding and then the transfer  of the cash proceeds into an ISA. Equiniti asked Mrs T 
whether she wanted to retain  the cash holding in the ISA or to use it, within the ISA, 
to buy back the relevant shares (or to buy a different set of shares). Mrs T said she 
wished to retain the cash holding.
In a subsequent conversation on the same date:
Mrs T put a scenario to Equiniti based  on tendering  the shares and queried what 
happened next. Equiniti said that once the shares  were tendered she would receive 
cash for it and she could then transfer  the cash to her ISA. Mrs T then asked if this 
process would   alleviate any capital gains tax , in response  to which  Equiniti  
said    weve got no idea about  capital gains tax  you might  want  to speak to 
the tax office first before you decide  to go either way 
It is during what appears to be the last conversation  or one of the last conversations  on 
19 May 2017 that another Equiniti official  misinformed Mrs T about CGT.
Ref: DRN61675973As the investigator  said, this misinformation is not in dispute. In terms of the trouble and 
upset it caused  Mr and Mrs T, I agree that the offer Equiniti made to them  that is, £250 
each  is reasonable. In terms of the notion that it constitutes grounds for Equiniti to 
compensate them for the CGT liability, I disagree.
The following  conclusions can be drawn from the telephone recordings, including the 
contents highlighted above:
It does not appear Mrs T would have acted differently if she knew  about the Bed and 
ISA process before  2018. Equiniti informed her and her IFA about this process  in 
September 2016. This was done  in the context, which had been set by the IFA, of 
minimising CGT and it arose  from a query raised  by the IFA about how Equiniti would 
execute what he and Mrs T panned  to do in selling the shares and minimising  CGT. 
Equiniti did not offer or give advice. Instead  it explained  that the Bed and ISA process 
would be the way in which it could execute  their plan. In May 2017  there  are a 
number of recordings, including those I mentioned  above, in which the same  Bed and 
ISA process was described  yet again.
Another point  in this respect   which also stands as a reason to support Equinitis 
suggestion that Mrs Ts plans were  not under its influence  is that by May 2019 she 
appears to have no longer wanted  the third element of the Bed and ISA process.  As 
quoted above, she was prepared  to sell the shares and transfer the cash  to an ISA 
but she did not want to buy back the shares thereafter. Instead she said she would 
hold the cash. The suggestion  from the complaint  is that the Bed and ISA process 
would have been used if Mrs T was aware  of it before it was too late. As I said above,  
she was aware from 2016. Despite this, it appears  that by May 2017 she no longer 
wished to use it  or no longer wished to use the third (buy back) element  of it. This 
defeats  or at least, lends itself to defeating   the idea that she would  have used the 
process earlier if she knew  about  it.
Mrs T was told, in one of the earlier conversations on 19 May 2017,  that Equiniti 
knew nothing about CGT and that she should  inform herself  through the tax office. It 
could reasonably be said that she ought not to have relied on the (mis)information 
she received from Equiniti  later on the same  day. I do not suggest its responsibility 
for the misinformation  should be ignored or diluted  my endorsement of its offer of 
£250 each to Mr and Mrs T indicates  my acknowledgement of its responsibility  in this 
respect. The point  is that the earlier conversation reminded Mrs T about the 
execution only service  within  the account, in which  no advice was given; she had 
also been told that Equiniti knew nothing about  CGT; overall and in this context, she 
should have questioned the (mis)information that she later received.
In addition to the above,  the presence of an IFA in Mrs Ts case  cannot  reasonably  be 
ignored. The implication  is that he was the source  of advice and Equinitis role was to 
execute his advice (and Mrs Ts instruction). In which  case, Mrs Ts actions in relation to the 
shareholding and in the context of the corporate  action, ought  reasonably  to have been  
defined or influenced by advice from the IFA  or, in terms of the CGT matter  and if the IFAs 
remit did not extend to tax advice, then it is reasonable to expect that he would have 
informed her of the need to make her tax related decisions on the basis  of specialist tax 
advice. I consider that neither Mrs T nor the IFA could reasonably have relied  on Equiniti for 
tax related advice.
Ref: DRN61675974my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6167597