K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Vitality Health  Limited declined the claim he made  under his private  
medical insurance policy.
background
In March 2018 Mr F made a claim on his private medical insurance policy after being 
diagnosed with prostate cancer.  Vitality  initially accepted his claim and told Mr F to go ahead 
with treatment. But it then gathered further information about  Mr Fs medical history and said 
it wouldnt cover  the claim after all because  he didnt meet  the terms of the policy  
moratorium. Mr F had prostate cancer  before he took out the policy and Vitality said he 
hadnt had two consecutive years without  treatment or advice since  the policy started.
But Vitality  accepted it shouldnt have said it would  cover  Mr Fs claim before it had 
completed its investigations. So it paid for Mr Fs first six weeks of treatment. After that Mr F 
obtained treatment  from the NHS. He also cancelled his policy.
Our investigator thought Vitality shouldve paid the claim. So he said Vitality  should give Mr F 
the opportunity  to reinstate the policy and also pay him £350 in recognition  of the trouble  and 
upset hed been caused when the claim was unfairly declined.. 
Vitality and Mr F both disagreed with the investigators recommendations. Vitality  maintained  
that Mr F didnt meet the conditions  of the moratorium.  Mr F said he didnt want to reinstate 
the policy and he wanted all his premiums back.  He felt the policy was worthless because,  
given what Vitality had said, it wouldve never  covered him for a recurrence of prostate 
cancer. So the case was passed to me
I gathered further  information about Mr Fs medical history and wrote  to Vitality to explain 
why I agreed with the conclusions the investigator reached. I said, in summary,  that:
I thought the purpose of the moratorium was to prevent Vitality from having  to pay for 
treatment for a condition that the consumer  had suffered from in the past and might have 
had recurring symptoms of when  they took out the policy.  
Mr F was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2009 and the policy started in 2012, so there  
was no dispute  hed had cancer  within five years of the policy  start date. But his 
oncologist gave  him the all clear  in December 2014 and said hed been cancer-free for 
five years already  at that point. So I thought it arguable Mr F presented no greater risk of 
having prostate  cancer again  than any other  member of the public, at the point of 
discharge. I didnt think the oncologists recommendation to have regular PSA tests  
afterwards were  recommended or undertaken specifically because there was an 
expectation that the cancer would recur.  I also had regard  for the overarching  
recommendation that men should  consider having regular  PSA tests from age 50 and Mr 
F was 70 at the point  of discharge.
A PSA test in August 2016 revealed a slight increase but, as far as I could tell, there 
were no concerns with those results in that they didnt result  in a new referral to an 
oncologist. That didnt  happen  until after further  tests were performed in September and 
December 2017. That suggested to me that Mr Fs cancer hadnt recurred in the two 
years from the date of discharge  so he had, arguably, been cancer-free for two 
Ref: DRN61411132continuous years after his policy started. And I didnt think the PSA test in 2016 
amounted to a check-up as set out in the moratorium  wording. 
I also took into account that if Mr F hadnt  had the PSA check  in August  2016 there 
would have been nothing stopping his claim being paid.  There  was nothing  to suggest 
the cancer had recurred at that point and he would  have had more than two consecutive 
years (from December 2014  to September 2017) being cancer-free.  It didnt  seem  fair to, 
in effect, penalise Mr F for being  proactive about  monitoring  his health. And I didnt feel 
Vitality had acted within  the spirit of the policy in declining his claim with reference to the 
moratorium and his PSA test in August 2016.
Vitality still didnt agree. It pointed to a couple  of publications relating to prostate cancer and 
said, in summary, that:
The moratoriums purpose  is to protect  Vitality  from the risks posed  by pre-existing 
medical conditions.  And having cancer is a significant predictor of future  cancers 
developing. The moratorium  said that pre-existing medical conditions  can become 
eligible for cover providing the policyholder had not consulted anyonefor medical  
treatment or advice (including check-ups)for  that pre-existing medical condition or any 
related condition for two continuous years  after your cover start date.  
Mr F had not been completely discharged from care by his oncologist in December 2014. 
Being cancer-free is not the same  as being given the all-clear. And the oncologist  
recommended he have six-monthly PSA tests. Treatment is defined  in the policy  terms 
and conditions as Surgical or medical  services  (including diagnostic tests) that are 
needed to diagnose,  relieve  or cure a disease, illness  or injury. And Mr Fs PSA tests  fall 
within this category because they were an integral part of his follow up for his previous 
prostate cancer  and this type of cancer has a high risk of recurrence (one in three men).
Although some  mens  PSA levels return to a normal range following treatment, 20-30% 
have an increase five years after the initial surgery or treatment indicating there may be 
a recurrence. And levels can spike after the sort of treatment  Mr F had in 2009. The rise 
might be benign or might indicate a recurrence and theres no way to tell the difference.  
Contrary to my assertion, Mr F remained at high risk of developing prostate cancer  
again. And NHS guidelines do not recommend  routine  PSA tests for healthy  men.
Mr Fs GP prescribed  him a drug to help with his urinary  flow. That mightve been reason 
enough to decline  his claim.
An ombudsman made a final decision in another case where the facts  were similar to 
Mr Fs. The ombudsman said Vitalitys terms were  clear  and the claim had been  fairly 
declined. 
Upholding  Mr Fs complaint by concluding  that the moratorium has not been fairly 
applied undermines moratorium  underwriting. This could severely affect  the costing of 
this type of issuance in future  which could  also impact the availability of medical 
insurance to the wider  population.
my findings
Ref: DRN61411133Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And that includes Vitalitys  comments 
about their wider concerns for the insurance industry should I uphold  this complaint. 
With that in mind, I first want  to stress  that Ive considered Mr Fs case  on its own merits 
which includes the medical evidence thats been  obtained. Ive also taken into account the 
relevant industry  rules  and guidance. The rules  say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Having done  so I 
still think Mr Fs claim shouldve been  paid. Ill explain  why.
Ive had regard  for what Vitality has said generally  about PSA levels,  spikes following 
treatment and what it considered to be the reason Mr Fs oncologist said he should  continue 
to have PSA tests.  But Im also aware  that prostate cancer doesnt recur  in all men who have 
suffered with it before. And Ive seen nothing which suggests Mr F was more  likely than 
anyone else to suffer a recurrence.
At the point of discharge, the oncologist reported that Mr Fs PSA levels were normal  and 
hed been cancer-free for five years. I accept it was prudent  to have further, regular PSA 
tests because raised PSA levels may indicate that cancer is present.  But I dont think this 
was recommended because the oncologist believed Mr F was likely to suffer a recurrence. 
And, on that point, I note almost three more years passed before one of those tests showed 
an increase in levels that caused the GP concern sufficient to refer Mr F for further  tests  and, 
ultimately, to an oncologist. 
The NHS guidance the investigator previously pointed Vitality to gives advice about PSA 
testing in well men aged over 50. This type of testing may not be a recommendation but it is 
something thats readily available for healthy  men. And Mr F was already over-50 when  he 
was first diagnosed with prostate cancer.
For the reasons  set out here and summarised above  I dont think, given the particular 
circumstances of Mr Fs case, that his PSA tests amounted to treatment for the original 
prostate cancer.  So I dont think it was fair of Vitality to decline his claim. 
Vitality has said it mightve declined Mr Fs claim for other reasons, relating to a drug he was 
taking. But it hasnt said this for definite  and it hasnt provided  any evidence  to support this 
assertion. So I cant  fairly say the claim wouldve been declined anyway.
Mr F has said he doesnt want the policy reinstating but I still think thats an option that 
should be given  to him. He should be aware though, if he decides  to go ahead  with this 
following receipt of this decision, that he will have  to pay the missed  premiums.
Mr F thinks £350  isnt sufficient compensation but I think  that amount is fair in the 
circumstances given  the likely confusion and upset he was caused when Vitality first agreed 
to pay the claim, then (in my opinion, unreasonably) changed its mind. And I dont think  it 
would be fair to tell Vitality  to refund all his premiums, not least,  because  he had the benefit 
of the policy  while it was in force which covered him for many  medical  conditions,  not just 
prostate cancer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Vitality  Health Limited  to:
Ref: DRN61411134Pay £350 compensation to Mr F.
Allow Mr F to reinstate  the policy if he exercises  this right within 28 days of accepting  my 
final decision and pay the missed  premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6141113