K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy about Barclays Bank  UK PLCs decision  to review and subsequently close 
his personal account.  He says this has resulted in his business  losing  out and wants to be 
compensated for the loss.
background
Mr G held a personal account  with Barclays.  He set up a business and used his Barclays  
account to take a couple of payments while his business account was being  set up.
In January 2018, another company  transferred  payments  meant for Mr Gs business into his 
Barclays personal account. Mr G tried to transfer the money  to his business account  but 
found his personal  account had been  blocked.
Mr G phoned Barclays to find out what was going  on and they told him to go into branch. He 
went into branch and they told him they couldnt  help and hed have to call up. This went  on 
for a couple  of days until Mr G eventually  received  a letter  from Barclays explaining his 
account would be closed immediately.
The closure letter explained Mr G would need  to go into branch to collect his money. But 
when Mr G went into branch, they asked  him for proof of entitlement. Mr G returned to 
branch with the necessary  information  and Barclays told him it would take a couple of weeks  
to review.
Mr G went back  to branch a couple  of weeks later and was told hed have  to wait until 
around May 2018  until a decision could be made on whether Barclays would give him his 
money. Mr G said he needed the money  for his business  and because Barclays  held it for 
so long, he lost contractors and his reputation was damaged. 
In early May 2018,  Barclays  released the money  to Mr G.
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Barclays said they placed a block on his account  when they 
carried out an internal  review in early February  2018. And following that review,  they decided  
to close his account. Barclays were satisfied with the decision but offered Mr G £100 
compensation for the time taken. Mr G remained unhappy so Barclays  looked  at things 
again. They  were still satisfied their decision to close Mr Gs account was correct but they 
realised they held on to his money  for a lot longer than they should have  around 88 days. 
So they paid 8% simple  interest on the amount held, and increased their compensation offer 
to £400 to recognise the delays and poor customer service Mr G had experienced.
The investigator who looked at Mr Gs complaint didnt  think Barclays  decision to review or 
close the account was unfair. He explained they have legal and regulatory obligations and 
part of that allows them to review and subsequently  close accounts. He recognised  they 
could have handled things better but thought Barclays offer of the 8% simple interest and 
£400 compensation fairly recognised that. Mr G didnt agree  he said nobody had ever 
explained to him why Barclays  decided to review and close  his account. And he said his 
business had lost over £15,000 initially and many more thousands as a result  of Barclays 
actions. 
The investigators view didnt change   he explained Barclays were  entitled to close  the 
account in the way they did. And while he recognised Mr Gs business may have suffered, 
Ref: DRN62912632he was only considering the impact  on Mr G as an individual as the complaint relates  to his 
personal account.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
account review
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr G to realise he couldnt  use his account.  
And I appreciate this put his business in a financially challenging position because he didnt 
have access to the funds. But a bank  cant always guarantee that funds in an account are 
readily available.  And like the investigator explained, I cant  fairly hold Barclays responsible  
for money  which was intended for Mr Gs business  account, was paid into his personal 
account.
Ive considered Barclays actions when reviewing  and subsequently suspending Mr Gs 
account. And, based on what Ive seen Im satisfied  they acted in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. And I havent seen that they caused any unnecessary delays when 
reviewing Mr Gs account. I say that because  it appears the blocks  were placed around  
7 February 2018  and they were removed  around  12 February 2018. I dont think  a period of 
less than a week  to carry out a review is unreasonable.  
I appreciate Mr G would  like Barclays  to give him an explanation  why they reviewed his 
account. A bank isnt obliged to do that. However  Id like to reassure Mr G that based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied Barclays acted appropriately in the circumstances.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  his 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive considered the terms and conditions which apply for Mr Gs account. Section  11 
explains that Barclays can close a customers account without any notice in certain 
circumstances.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Barclays sent Mr G, and Im pleased  to see they referred him to 
the relevant section of their terms and conditions.  While I appreciate  Barclays  hasnt told 
Mr G the reason for them  deciding to close his account, Im satisfied based on the 
information Ive seen they were  entitled to close  the account immediately. So I wont  be 
asking them to do anything.
returning the funds to Mr G.
While Im satisfied  Barclays  acted appropriately when reviewing and closing Mr Gs account, 
Ive also considered how long they held onto his money.
Ref: DRN62912633Mr Gs account was closed around  12 February  2018, and Barclays allowed him access to 
his funds around 11 May 2018. I dont think this a reasonable  amount of time to hold on to 
the funds. However  Im aware Barclays have paid 8% simple  interest on the amount they 
held from the time they closed the account  to the time they gave Mr G access to his funds. 
And I think their actions have been  reasonable, because theyve paid interest  at the 
recommended amount  because Mr G couldnt use his funds. So I wont be asking them to do 
anything more in this regard.
compensation
I recognise Mr G received poor customer service from Barclays while trying to sort things 
out. He was told to call a number,  and go to branch a number of times only to find nobody 
could help him. And hes experienced unreasonable delays  in having access to his money. 
Barclays has said it will pay Mr G £400  in compensation for their lack of service.  
I know that Mr G says that isnt enough. And hes told us that this issue has caused  his 
business a lot of trouble. Ive considered that carefully. But our role isnt to punish 
businesses for their mistakes. We award what we think is fair and reasonable. And the 
compensation Barclays has offered is in line with the sorts of awards  our service usually 
recommends. 
Ive also kept in mind  that I cant consider the impact  Barclays lack of service had on Mr Gs 
business  as this complaint is in relation to Mr Gs personal account. I recognise  he says he 
used this account for business transactions, but that isnt the intended use of the account.  
And Ive explained  above  why I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible  for another company 
paying money into Mr Gs personal  account,  which was intended for his business.
So I think the £400 compensation offered is reasonable in the circumstances.
overall
Im satisfied Barclays acted correctly when reviewing and closing Mr Gs account. But I think  
they should have provided him with clearer explanations and given him access to his money  
sooner than they did. However, I think their payment  of interest on the monies held and their 
offer of compensation is reasonable. 
So I wont  be asking them to do anything differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle 
this complaint. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6291263