K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC blocked  and closed  her ISA. And that it wouldnt 
allow her to deposit any more cash into it before she transferred her account  to another 
bank.
Mrs S also complains that Barclays caused  delays and provided  incorrect information  when  
she arranged to move her account to another bank. She says as a result shes  out of pocket 
and wants Barclays to pay her compensation.
background
Mrs S had a cash and stocks ISA with Barclays.
In January 2018, Barclays sent Mrs S a letter to say that following a review it was closing her 
account. Barclays offered  Mrs S alternative options, which included transferring her ISA to 
another bank.  And it gave Mrs S 60 days to let them know what option shed chosen. 
Mrs S chose to transfer her ISA to another bank,  which I will refer to as bank  B. But before 
she transferred her account Mrs S wanted to deposit more money into the account. Barclays  
told Mrs S that following its review and decision to close her account it couldnt accept 
further deposits into the account. Mrs S wasnt happy with this response.  She says because  
Barclays prevented her from topping up her ISA, she lost out on a tax-free  allowance,  which  
she was intending  to use once shed retired. 
Mrs S also says Barclays didnt send bank B a correctly completed ISA declaration form 
during the transfer process.  She says as a result she wasnt  able to set up a new ISA 
account and deposit her yearly allowance, of £20,000, before the end of the 2017/2018 tax 
year. So, shes lost out financially. And she wants Barclays to pay her compensation.
Ive provided a timeline of events using the evidence from both Mrs S, bank B and Barclays. 
While this may not include everything, all parties have commented on, I believe its important 
to set out what happened and when during the transfer process:
19 February 2018 Mrs S signed  transfer  form and sent it to bank B
21 February 2018 bank B received Mrs Ss signed transfer  form and forwards it onto 
Barclays
5 March 2018 Barclays receives transfer form from bank B
13 March 2018 Barclays  begins transfer  of Mrs Ss ISA to bank  B 
16 March 2018 Mrs Ss stocks and shares ISA account transfer  from Barclays to bank B 
completed
23 March 2018 Mrs S contacted bank B for an update regarding her ISA cash allowance
26 March 2018 Barclays  sends bank B Mrs Ss ISA transfer history form
26 March 2018 bank B emails Mrs S to let her know it is waiting for Barclays to provide 
an ISA declaration form
26 March 2018, bank B contacts Barclays to chase up ISA declaration  form
27 March 2018 Barclays  sends bank B incorrect ISA declaration form showing negative  
balance
28 March 2018 Barclays  reviewed Mrs S ISA allowance. And confirmed the ISA 
declaration contained  incorrect information
29 March 2018 Barclays  emailed Mrs S to let her know it was working on providing her 
with a revised ISA declaration as a priority  and apologised for any inconvenience
Ref: DRN6374482230 March 2018 Barclays  internal  email  stating corrected ISA declaration forms will be 
forwarded to bank B via email
3 April 2018 Mrs S emails Barclays and points  out that the tax year ends in 2 days.  
Barclays offers her £50 for sending incorrect ISA declaration  form to bank B
4 April 2018 bank  B emails Mrs S to confirm  it has asked Barclays to contact them  
regarding some information on the ISA declaration form. Mrs S told bank  B to make sure 
ISA subscriptions are correct
10 April 2018 bank  B emails Barclays asking for clarification of Mrs Ss subscription 
amounts
10 April 2018 internal email at Barclays stating bank B has called regarding negative 
figure shown on Mrs Ss ISA declaration form 
24 April 2018 bank  B confirms it received correct ISA declaration form
Following this Mrs S complained to Barclays. In response,  Barclays  said it hadnt  done 
anything wrong  when it blocked  and closed Mrs Ss account. However, Barclays  accepted it 
initially had sent bank B an ISA declaration form which didnt have the right information on it 
 the amount Mrs S intended to deposit  was wrong.  And showed a negative figure. Barclays 
said it had rectified its mistake within a few days and sent the corrected  paperwork  to bank B 
on 30 March 2018, which was within its 30-day timescale for completing ISA transfers.  And 
before the end of the 2017/2018  tax year. 
Barclays offered Mrs S £50 compensation for the delays caused by completing Mrs Ss ISA 
declaration incorrectly.  Mrs S wasnt happy  with this response and brought  her complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator looked into things. She was satisfied Barclays had acted fairly  and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And that it had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  it blocked and closed the account.  She also said Barclays  had completed 
the transfer of Mrs Ss ISA within 30 days. And thought Barclays offer of £50 compensation 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S accepted what the investigator said about  the block and closure of her account. But 
said due to delays  caused by Barclays she wasnt able to deposit cash into her new ISA 
account before the end of the 2017/2018 tax year. So, she wants Barclays to pay her 
compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
13 March 2020.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Barclays accepts that it sent an incorrect ISA declaration form to bank B. But it says as soon  
as it was made aware of its mistake it was corrected. And says that based on some internal 
emails between its staff it believes it sent the corrected forms to bank B around 30 March 
2018, which was before the tax year deadline  of 5 April 2018.
Having looked  at the email communication between Barclays and bank B around this time 
I wasnt satisfied that Barclays sent bank B a corrected ISA declaration form around 30 
March 2018. I said this because Id not seen any evidence that the form was actually sent by 
Barclays or received  by bank B around  this time. I read the internal  email between Barclays 
Ref: DRN63744823staff dated 30 March 2018 at 10.32am, which Barclays  says shows it sent the corrected form 
to bank B, but this email  only suggested Barclays intended to send the corrected form to 
bank B. And not that it was sent.  Our investigator  asked  Barclays for any information which 
would show the form was sent around  this time, but to date it hasnt been able to do so. 
I also looked at several  emails between bank B, Mrs S and Barclays.  In particular, on 
4 April 2018 at 9.09am  I noted Mrs S emailed  bank B to find out whether it had received a 
corrected form from Barclays.  Bank B responded  to Mrs S at 2.27pm stating we have 
requested a call back  from Barclays to request further information  on the ISA declaration. 
We will be in touch once we confirm  the amount. 
On 10 April 2018 bank  B emailed Barclays chasing it for clarification on Mrs Ss subscription  
amounts. In response  to this email  at 3.06pm, Barclays  sent an internal email to its transfer  
department stating bank B had called regarding a negative  balance on the clients  ISA 
subscription form and there  is some  discrepancy  between this and what the client says they 
have contributed. On 24 April 2018 at 4.16pm bank B emailed Mrs S and it told her we have 
just received an ISA declaration form with a confirmation of NULL.  
So, on the balance  of probabilities, I thought  it was unlikely that Barclays  sent bank B a 
corrected ISA declaration  form on 30 March  2018.  And based on the evidence Id seen, 
I didnt think it was sent until after the 5 April 2018 deadline, which  meant Mrs S wasnt  able 
to set up her cash ISA with bank  B in time for the new tax year. 
I also kept in mind that Id not seen  any evidence that bank B chased  Barclays  sooner than 
10 April 2018, despite being put on notice by Mrs S in late March 2018 that the form was 
wrong. However, I couldnt  consider  bank  Bs actions in this decision.  And I cant hold 
Barclays responsible  for the actions of another bank.  That is something Mrs S will have to 
take up directly with bank  B herself.
Where something has gone  wrong, we look to see if a customer has lost out. And to put the 
consumer back in the position they wouldve been in had everything gone  as it should have. 
So, I looked to see if there  was any financial  loss or detrimental impact to Mrs S because 
she wasnt able to deposit cash into her new ISA with bank B in time for the 2017/2018 tax 
year. 
An ISA is a form of tax-free  saving. Interest is paid in gross  on any money  deposited and 
doesnt need to be declared  on a tax return.  So, Mrs S wouldnt have to pay tax on the 
interest shed earn on the £20,000  she wanted to deposit. But bank B has confirmed that 
Mrs S cash  ISA wouldnt have paid any interest.  So, overall, I wasnt  persuaded Mrs S lost 
out financially  because  of Barclays mistake. 
But I did think Mrs S was caused unnecessary trouble and upset.  She had to spend  a 
considerable amount of time and effort to try and sort things out. She had to go to the trouble  
of sending several emails  and making  phone calls to find out what  was going  on with the 
transfer over a number  of weeks. So, I was minded to say that Mrs S was entitled to some  
compensation. And that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays  to pay Mrs S £150 for 
the trouble and upset caused to her.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs S or Barclays  I was minded  to uphold the 
complaint. Barclays accepted my provisional  decision. Mrs S disagreed. In summary,  she 
said once her transfer to bank B had been successful, she wouldve  followed  her husbands 
investment decisions  and the cash  element of her ISA would have been transferred  onto the 
Ref: DRN63744824best buy cash ISA option  to earn interest. And it would not have been  left in a zero interest 
account. So she wants additional compensation for the loss of interest. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, on the balance  of probabilities, Im not satisfied that 
Barclays sent bank  B a corrected ISA declaration form on 30 March 2018. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think Barclays  most  likely sent the paperwork  to bank B after the 5 April 
2018 deadline, which meant  Mrs S wasnt able to set up her cash  ISA with bank B in time for 
the new tax year. However, Mrs S cash ISA with bank B wouldnt have paid any interest. So, 
Im satisfied Mrs S hasnt lost out financially because of Barclays  mistake. 
Mrs S has said once  her transfer to bank B had been successful, she wouldve followed her 
husbands investment  decisions and the cash element of her ISA wouldve been transferred  
onto the best buy cash  ISA option to earn interest. And it wouldnt have been  left in a zero 
interest account. So she wants compensation for the loss of interest. But Ive not seen any 
evidence of an intention  to move the cash element to a higher  earning account and if that 
had been the intention, I think Mrs S wouldve done that earlier. So Im not going  to ask 
Barclays to pay compensation for loss of interest.
From looking  at the evidence, I think Mrs S had to spend a considerable amount of time and 
effort to try and sort things  out. I can see that she sent several emails and made a number of 
phone calls to find out what  was going  on with the transfer over a number of weeks. So, 
I think she was put to some inconvenience. And that she is entitled to some compensation. 
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay Mrs S £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to her.
Ref: DRN63744825My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs S £150  for the 
trouble and upset  caused by Barclays mistake. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6374482