K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Cash Converters (Leyton)  Limited was irresponsible  when it gave him 
loans.
background
Mr P took out 13 loans  between March 2011  and August 2012. He says he borrowed 
because he was short of money  and then had to borrow again to repay the previous loan. 
Mr P says while the loan amounts were small,  they were not affordable.  He had loans  from 
other lenders and his credit file would  have shown this.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said the information 
Cash Converters had suggested none  of the loans were affordable.
Cash Converters didnt  respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Cash Converters needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ps income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  that Cash Converters  should have done more to establish 
that any lending  was sustainable for a customer. Such factors  include the customers income  
 particularly a lower income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which 
the loan is to be repaid, and the number and frequency of loans and the time over which  the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
When Mr P applied  for the first loan, in March 2011,  he told Cash  Converters he was not 
employed. His income was from benefits:  job seekers allowance and child tax credit. 
Mr P gave Cash Converters copies of bank statements for January  and February 2011. 
These suggest his outgoings exceeded his income. There were  returned direct debits in both 
months and an unauthorised overdraft fee. The bank statements showed  Mr P had recently 
repaid a loan from a short term lender. 
I think all this should have  alerted  Cash Converters  to a possible problem  such as financial 
difficulties. I dont think, based on the information  it had, it was reasonable for Cash 
Converters to assess these loans as affordable. Cash Converters received bank statements 
that showed Mr P was still receiving job seekers  allowance a year later  in April 2012. And 
that he was also borrowing  from other  short term lenders. 
Ref: DRN62703072I also think, by the time Mr P asked  for the sixth loan, Cash  Converters should have 
considered whether hed become reliant  on short term loans. The amounts Mr P borrowed 
increased consistently throughout the period  he took loans  from Cash  Converters. Its likely 
he was taking out loans to repay the previous  loan  or to fill the hole left in his finances by 
repaying it.
I dont think any of this lending was affordable or sustainable, and Cash Converters should  
have been aware  of this from the information  it had. I dont think Cash  Converters should  
have given Mr P any of the loans. So it should:
A)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr P towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans,  including  payments made  to a third party  where applicable, but 
not including  anything already refunded.
B)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr P which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr P originally made  the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C)pay Mr P the total of "A" plus "B".
D)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loans  1 to 5. 
The overall pattern  of Mr Ps borrowing from loan 6 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove  these loans entirely from Mr Ps 
credit file. If Cash  Converters sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser  to do 
the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash Converters to deduct tax from this interest.  It 
should give Mr P a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Cash Converters (Leyton) Limited to take 
the steps and make  the payments set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6270307