complaint
Ms T, as director of a limited company  O, has complained about Os commercial  
insurance provider,  Allianz Insurance Plc because it declined a claim made  for theft when 
Os premises were  burgled.
background
Ms T lives in a flat above Os premises. She heard a noise one night which  she thought 
nothing of. But in the morning she found an open  window in Os premises, the shop in a 
state and that stock  was missing. She called the police and made  a claim to Allianz.
Allianz asked Ms T to provide various  information  to it, including photos  of the point of entry. 
It didnt send anyone, such as a loss adjuster, to the premises  to investigate the claim. 
When Allianz saw the photos of the window the thieves were  said to have entered through 
and exited from, it noted the window wasnt damaged. Allianz  referred to the policy terms 
which said there was cover for:
Theft or attempted theft following upon or followed by forcible  and violent entry to or exit 
from the premises
Allianz said that as the window wasnt damaged, it seemed no force  or violence had been  
used. That being  the case it declined the claim.  Ms T said the police had accepted the 
window had been locked and told her it wasnt uncommon for entry  to be forced without 
sign of damage being  left. She provided  a police report which said:
Person/s gain entry  in to [Os premises] via forcing  a window. Person/s then conduct  
search of premises and steal items. Person/s make of [sic] from scene egress  same  as 
entry.
Allianz made  some enquiries with the police as it had concerns about  what Ms T had said 
she was told by the police. In an email  from the police forces  information compliance 
assistant it was confirmed  that:
An officer did attend the scene to take the initial report and SOCO  [scenes of crime office] 
attended at a later date. There were no CCTV of the incident.  The SOCO reported  the 
window was locked  and it appeared no force [sic] entry.
In light of this detail Allianz wasnt  minded  to change its view on the claim. Ms T, on behalf  
of O, complained to us.
Ms T reiterated that the police had told her that thieves  could  gain entry without causing 
damage. But, she said, since the theft the window had stopped  working  the handle was 
stuck in an upright  position and couldnt be moved. She felt this was likely linked to damage 
the thieves had caused which couldnt  be seen by viewing photos.
Our investigator noted the findings  of the SOCO and the policy  wording. He didnt  think  the 
fact the handle on the window was broken now showed that damage had most likely been 
caused during  the break-in. He accepted that a lack of clear damage meant Allianz could 
reasonably rely on the definition of theft to decline the claim as it was likely  no force and 
violence had been used to either enter  or exit the building.
Ms T was disappointed  as she felt wed applied too narrow an understanding  of the policy  
terms. She said the purpose of the term was to protect the insurer  against negligent 
Ref: DRN6406542policyholders but in her case the police  report showed that entry  had been gained  despite 
the window having been locked. Ms T said the fair outcome was for Allianz  to ignore the 
implications created by a strict reading  of the policy definition and accept Os claim.
Os complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I intend  to uphold the 
complaint, and Ill explain why as well as what I think Allianz should do. Both parties  will 
have chance to respond to my findings before  I make  and issue  a final decision.
Allianz policy does  set out the terms of cover  it has agreed to offer O. The terms reflect  the 
risks it is prepared  to cover. Each  insurer is entitled  to choose what  it wants to offer cover  
for and reflect  that in the policies it offers by including definitions and exclusions. When  we 
consider a complaint we will always take the policy wording into account.
However, we also consider complaints  on a fair and reasonable basis. And we will be 
unlikely to allow an insurer to rely on a definition  or exclusion to defeat  a claim if doing so 
would create  an unfair outcome. When considering what  might equate  to an unfair outcome 
we will take into account what the purpose of the specific  term in question  is.
In this case I have to say that Ms Ts understanding of the purpose of the theft definition is 
correct. It is a form of wording used by many insurers, across many  types  of property and 
motor insurance, sometimes as part of a definition  (as is the case here)  and sometimes  as 
an exclusion. Its purpose is because, not unsurprisingly or unreasonably, insurers do not 
want to pay out for theft claims where  the policyholder has left their property unlocked,  
thereby making  them an easy  target for any passing thief.
But, that being the case, if a policyholder has taken care of their property, but a careful or 
skilled thief gains  entry anyway without leaving evidence of their passing, we will usually not 
allow an insurer to rely on a technical  breach of any force  and violence  term to defeat the 
claim. So the fact that no force or violence was used may not be enough  in this case for 
Allianz to fairly and reasonably decline the claim.  Rather it should  have considered,  and
I have to decide, whether thieves gained entry to Os premises despite  Ms T, as Os 
representative, taking  care to not act negligently  by courting a risk of theft.
Ref: DRN6406542K821x#15Because Allianz didnt investigate the claim there  is little evidence  here to base my 
findings on. What little there is doesnt  suggest that Ms T, in any way, acted  negligently. 
The police officers  report and the comments regarding what  the SOCO found  both 
suggest the window was the point of entry and the window was locked. There  is no 
suggestion that another, unsecure point of entry or exit was used, and the window cant 
be unlocked from the outside, so there can be no reasonable suggestion that Ms T 
passed on, or allowed  someone access to, a key. As far as I can see Ms T, as Os 
representative, acted  as a prudent, careful  policyholder  I cant see any fair or 
reasonable reason why O should  be prevented  from benefitting from the policy.
That being  the case I think Allianz  needs  to consider Os claim for theft. I cant  reasonably 
tell Allianz to settle the claim at this stage though as it does still need  chance to consider 
it. It will have to assess the claim against  the remaining terms and conditions  of the 
policy, which Im satisfied  is what  it always  should have done in the circumstances here.
Im also satisfied that Allianz  failure  to fairly  and reasonably  consider  the claim has 
caused O some inconvenience. I think Allianz should pay £100 compensation to make  up 
for that. But if O has suffered because of a lack of stock (due to items having  been 
stolen), I cant  compensate it for that inconvenience because the claim is still to be 
considered.
Ms T said she accepted  my findings.  Allianz objected to them.
Allianz explained that the policy wording required force to be used for cover for theft to 
operate and said it had never sought  to raise an argument regarding  negligence. It said 
the police  reports  and comments shouldnt be seen as stating the fact of what happened 
without other  evidence to corroborate them. It said its glazing expert  didnt think  entry  
could be gained without  damage having been  caused. 
my provisional decision
Im minded  to uphold  this complaint. I intend  to require  Allianz  Insurance Plc to consider 
Os claim for theft under  the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and pay it £100 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand the meaning of the policy wording  but as I explained provisionally, the 
meaning alone will not always be enough for an insurer to fairly  and reasonably  decline a 
claim. 
I accept the evidence from the police isnt entirely  compelling  and it may be that the 
police investigation  was limited. I also appreciate that Allianz did consider  the claim even 
though it didnt appoint a loss adjuster  and visit the property or assess the damage in 
person. Whilst Allianz has sought  comment from a glazing  expert, the expert points  out 
its assessment is limited because the photos it has been asked  to base its judgement  on 
dont show all elements  of the frame or lock, including the internal mechanism  this is 
Ref: DRN6406542something an expert like this could have  considered  if Allianz had appointed them during 
the early part of the claim. I appreciate that Allianz didnt feel that such was necessary 
here given  the situation and the policy  wording   but I remain of the view that its decline 
based on the limited  detail  it had and in light of the reason behind the term in question  
(as explained provisionally) was unfair and unreasonable.  
For the avoidance of doubt at no time did I suggest Allianz had sought to argue Ms T 
hadnt taken reasonable  care.  Rather  in my provisional findings I explained that because 
of the intent behind the term Allianz was seeking  to rely on to defeat Os claim, it should  
have considered whether Ms T had taken care not to make  O an easy  target  for theft.
I understand that Allianz disagrees  with my peroxisomal findings. However, having 
considered all of its points Im not minded to move away from what I said initially.  My 
provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to consider  Os claim for theft 
under the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy and pay it £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6406542