K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr K to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Mr Ks complaint is made, on his behalf,  by his representative. 
background
During 2013, Mr K was put in touch  with AFFS by an unregulated  third party.  It seems  the 
third party had told him about  investing his pension in store pods. So he spoke to AFFS 
about this. An adviser from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  It then advised  
Mr K to transfer his existing personal  pension plan to a SIPP. This was so he could then 
invest in store pods,  an unregulated investment. 
Mr Ks existing  pension  had a transfer value of just under £40,750. This was transferred to 
the SIPP in early November 2013. Early the following  month £36,000 was then invested in 
store pods. In February 2013 AFFS  then advised Mr K to invest a further £4,281.90 in a 
Nucleus portfolio. Its not clear if this last investment went ahead. But this doesnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint. The store pods now appear to be illiquid. Mr K is worried hes lost 
the value of his investment. 
So in January 2017 Mr K complained, via his representative, to AFFS about the advice  hed 
received. In brief, he said AFFS hadnt  followed the relevant rules and regulations; it had 
tried to restrict the advice  it had given; it wasnt possible for AFFS to recommend the transfer 
without fully considering the actual store pods investment; the investment wasnt  suitable  for 
his circumstances;  and AFFS wrongly recorded his attitude to risk as adventurous. So Mr K 
wants compensation for the money he says hes lost. 
AFFS didnt provide a response to Mr Ks complaint.  So he brought it to our service. One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. He thought the complaint should be upheld.  In summary, the 
adjudicator said:  AFFS should  have advised  Mr K whether  or not the intended investment 
was suitable; he wasnt an experienced investor; his attitude to risk was more likely  to be 
balanced rather than adventurous; and the advice  to transfer his pension  to the SIPP  wasnt 
suitable. The adjudicator then set out what AFFS needed to do to compensate Mr K. 
Mr Ks representative didnt make any further comments in response to the adjudicators 
view. No response was received from either AFFS or its representative, even though the 
deadline to reply was extended several  times. 
As AFFS  didnt respond to the adjudicators view, this complaint has been  passed to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by the parties involved. No 
Ref: DRN69181592discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
was AFFSs advice to Mr K to transfer  his existing pensions to a SIPP  suitable?  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill now turn to the matter of our jurisdiction. AFFS sent us a legal  opinion  that store  pods 
arent an unregulated  collective investment  scheme (UCIS). Although  AFFS hasnt explicitly 
questioned our jurisdiction  to look at this complaint, Ive seen arguments  made  in similar  
circumstances that as store pods arent an UCIS,  any advice to invest in them isnt an 
activity covered by our service. 
For completeness, and the avoidance of doubt,  advice  to invest in store  pods isnt the 
activity Im looking  at. Im looking at the advice Mr K was given to open a SIPP. That is a 
regulated activity. It doesnt matter whether or not the store pods investment was an UCIS. 
The rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice given  
to Mr K needed to take into account the relevant rules. This is irrespective of whether the 
store pods investment was or wasnt a regulated product. The regulations required the 
advice given to Mr K to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get enough information  about 
his circumstances.  
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr K. This was signed by him in August 2013. It recorded  
some of his personal  circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included. No outgoings  were  
listed. There was no mention of Mr K having  any assets, savings or other  investments  other  
than his existing  pension plan. Im not satisfied AFFS could adequately assess  Mr Ks needs  
based on limited  information.  
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment values  will fluctuate according  to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced.
Underneath this is a hand written note:
I wouldnt  say I was a higher risk investor  however I realise  to achieve a comfortable  
pension I will need to take higher risks with my pension which I am happy to do. 
The fact find also had the following box ticked:
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
Theres no detail on how Mr Ks attitude to risk was assessed. The available  evidence points 
to him having very limited  investment knowledge, if any at all. Mr K certainly doesnt seem  to 
have invested  in high risk speculative products before. Other  than his existing  pension,  
theres nothing to show he had any other investments whatsoever. So I dont think I can rely 
on the fact find recording  his attitude to risk as adventurous.  
Ref: DRN69181593I think Mr Ks attitude to risk was more likely to be balanced. I say this because another  
section of the fact find stated that his existing  pension plan was a significant proportion of his 
financial wealth  and he didnt want to take any unnecessary risks with it. 
The fact find also had other inconsistencies.  One section, headed Priorities, had seven  
different headings.  These were meant to be ranked in order of importance from one to 
seven, with one being the most important  and seven the least.  Mr Ks number one ranked 
priority was: 
the ability to maximise the level of tax free lump sum when I start to take my benefits from 
the pension scheme.
But this contradicts an earlier part of the fact find that stated:
A lump sum is a possible choice for me but my priority is for an income  in retirement.
Given Mr Ks lack of investment experience and understanding, Im satisfied he was relying  
on AFFS to give him suitable advice.  Whatever  his actual attitude to risk was, it was also 
important for AFFS to look at Mr Ks capacity to take that risk. I can see the fact find gave his 
yearly income as around £18,000. As Ive just said, Mr Ks existing pension was a significant 
proportion of his financial wealth. Understandably, he didnt want  to take any risks with it. 
Given this, along  with Mr Ks seeming lack of any other savings and investments, Im also 
satisfied he couldnt  afford  for his investment to fall in value, or be lost completely. 
Later in the fact find, Mr K was asked if he was planning to invest in an unregulated  or 
alternative investment.  The answer  Store First was given. The handwritten note at the 
bottom of this section  stated: 
Client likes this type of investment due to transparency & flexibility  compared  with more 
traditional investment  funds. 
But Mr K had already  stated, he had very little experience or understanding  of investment 
markets. So its not clear to me at all how this position was arrived at. Also, Mr K had already 
said he didnt want to take any unnecessary risks with his pension.  This isnt consistent with 
investing in an unregulated alternative  product such as store pods. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report in September  2013.  Mr K received this on 
2 October 2013.This again recorded that Mr K had a limited knowledge of investments, 
although it added that he understood the basics. The report said Mr K especially liked the 
control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active role in choosing  what 
he deemed were suitable investments rather than the traditional funds in his existing plan. 
The investment strategy section stated Mr K sought advice from AFFS about the intention of 
investing in commercial property, storage pods in particular. It said he hadnt sought  advice 
about the suitability of this investment and had stated he understood the additional  risks 
associated with such an investment. But Im not satisfied this is an accurate reflection of 
Mr Ks position given his statement on the fact find that he had no  or very little - experience 
or understanding of investment markets. 
Even after the risks had been explained to Mr K, given his lack of investment knowledge, Im 
not satisfied he would  have had a good  enough understanding  of the risks to adequately 
Ref: DRN69181594judge the suitability of the store pods investment. Mr K would have been heavily reliant on 
AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pod investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Mr Ks pension  assets bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Ks fund shouldnt be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I can see that in February 2014, several months  after the transfer to the SIPP  and the store  
pods investment took place, AFFS did contact Mr K about another investment.  It 
recommended that he should make an additional investment in a Nucleus  portfolio.  This was 
for £,4,281.90. As I said above, its not clear if this investment went  ahead. But this doesnt 
affect the outcome of this complaint. 
While dealing with this complaint, Im very aware that the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Mr K. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said: 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating . 
Im satisfied it wasnt possible  for AFFS to advise  Mr K on the suitability of the SIPP  without 
also considering  how he planned to invest. Its very clear  to me that AFFS knew all along  
that Mr K intended to invest in store pods. With this in mind, I dont think it was suitable to 
advise Mr K to transfer his existing pension into a SIPP to allow him to make  this investment. 
AFFS did set out some  risks of investing  in store  pods in the suitability report. These were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk. 
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
Ref: DRN69181595however after the initial  period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return. 
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnoccupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees,  service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees. 
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity. 
 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company. 
As Ive already  said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I dont think this goes  far enough. There  was no warning to Mr K that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk. Given Mr Ks lack of investment experience, Im 
not satisfied he realised the extent of the risk he was taking with his existing pension. AFFS 
should have been much clearer  in its warnings to him. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I think it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  with 
Mr Ks low capacity  for loss. AFFS identified this type of investment as inherently illiquid. The 
available evidence doesnt show me that Mr K was fully aware of the risks involved in 
investing in store pods. Im satisfied the investment wasnt suitable for him  and thats what 
AFFS should have  told him. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also dont think  transferring Mr Ks existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. On the fact find, Mr K was asked how happy he was with 
the investment  performance of his current pension.  On a scale  of one to five, with one being 
not at all, and five being very, an answer  of one was given. 
Ive looked at the last available statement from Mr Ks then existing pension  provider.  This 
was included in the file given to us by AFFS. The statement covers the 12 month period 
ending 4 September 2013. It shows Mr Ks existing  pension had grown by over 11% in that 
time. But the store pods would only give Mr K a return  of 8% a year  and that was only 
guaranteed for the first two years. If Mr K wasnt happy with the 11% growth of his current  
plan, I dont see how an investment returning  8% was going  to improve things  for him.
Im satisfied that given  a realistic assessment of Mr Ks attitude  to risk as balanced, his 
existing pension would have been  suitable  for his needs. I think suitable advice should have 
been not to invest in store pods.  If that advice had been given, I dont see any reason why 
Mr K would have transferred his existing pension to the SIPP. There would have simply been  
no need for the SIPP. So the advice to open a SIPP was unsuitable for Mr Ks 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN69181596fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr K into the position  he would probably now be in if he had been given 
suitable advice.  I think Mr K would have kept his existing pension.  
AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mr Ks previous pension plan, 
assuming it hadnt  been transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP investments, 
including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the current 
notional value of Mr Ks previous pension plan. 
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Ks pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
I think its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Ks pension  plan. If 
thats the case, it should pay the amount  direct  to him. But if it had been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income when Mr K takes  the benefits. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ks marginal rate of tax in retirement. I 
think hes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mr K would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Since the store pods investment is now illiquid  it cant readily be sold on the open market   
its value should  be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS 
to Mr K. AFFS  can then arrange to take ownership of the investment. If thats not possible, 
then Mr K can sign an undertaking that he will pay AFFS any future disbursements  he may 
get from the store pods investment. That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges 
that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP.  AFFS will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
I think its very likely  Mr K will have to maintain  the SIPP for a period of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Mr K five years  worth 
of SIPP  fees to compensate him for these costs.  
In addition, AFFS should Pay Mr K £300  for the disruption caused to his retirement  planning. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple  
format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr K how much has been  taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr K a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
Ref: DRN69181597the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr K as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6918159