K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited doesnt allow him to view his pension 
plan via an online platform. Hes also unhappy because he doesnt receive statements every 
six months.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in January 2019  (copy attached). In summary, I didnt think the complaint 
should succeed. 
Mr W disagreed  with my provisional  decision,  and responded  with a number of comments:
Aviva  promised in writing to comply  with this services decision, but then reneged  on 
this by challenging the adjudicators view.
He has learned  that I contacted Aviva for additional information, but didnt inform him 
of this. Mr W thinks this is unfair and against  all principles of natural justice. If Aviva 
presented any evidence or objections, then its only fair that he should have been 
informed and given  the opportunity to challenge any representations made. This 
demonstrates a lack of impartiality on my part.
The adjudicator  made  it quite clear that while her decision was subject to challenge, it 
was unlikely to be changed by an ombudsman  without substantive reason. Ive 
ignored this commitment. 
Hed been given  the impression that it could take around six months for an 
ombudsman to begin work on his case. But he understands that his complaint was 
passed to me on 20 December 2018. Given the holiday period, this would have given  
me just over two weeks to review his complaint. And during this time I asked Aviva 
for further information. It wasnt possible for the review to be conducted with 
adequate due diligence in this time,  which is highlighted by my referring to the 
adjudicator as he when she was female. 
Aviva told us it had nothing further to add.
The matter  has now been passed back to me for review.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr W has made a number of comments about  my handling  of his case, and Ive 
considered these below. Hes also made  some  other  points about how his complaint has 
been dealt with generally by this service. These are being addressed separately.
Aviva reneged on its promise to comply  with our decision
I can see that in correspondence  with Mr W, Aviva said it would co-operate fully with the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  But Ive not seen  evidence  it gave  an unequivocal guarantee 
such as Mr W suggests.  
Ref: DRN63353832In any event, the letter the adjudicator sent Aviva on 18 July 2018 wasnt a final decision or 
determination of Mr Ws complaint - it was her view of what  she thought  should be the 
outcome. Aviva was not obliged to accept  this, and was entitled to challenge the view, which 
it did. As we explained to Mr W, because the adjudicator hadnt been  able to resolve the 
complaint it would passed to an ombudsman for review. 
I contacted Aviva for further information, but didnt let Mr W know
Having received the complaint, I reviewed  the evidence on file. It became clear that an 
important consideration was to determine Avivas  obligations to Mr W in relation to his 
pension policy. I felt that I needed more  information  about Avivas contractual  relationship 
with Mr W, and also the information it had provided when it took over administration of the 
policy from Friends Life. I thought the quickest way to obtain this was directly from Aviva. 
I should stress that Aviva simply sent me the documents I asked  for. It didnt  make  any 
further representations about the complaint. The documents I received were all ones  that 
Mr W would  have seen in the past, and I referred  to those  I thought  were  relevant in my 
findings. Mr W has had the opportunity of commenting on these documents when 
responding to the provisional  decision.  I dont agree theres been  any lack of impartiality  on 
my part.
the adjudicator  said her decision was unlikely to be changed without substantive reason
Im not able to comment on what the adjudicator may have told Mr W about the process 
when a complaint  is passed to an ombudsman. But I think  its likely it was made clear  that 
the ombudsman  would  take an independent and impartial review  of all the evidence to reach  
his or her view of the correct outcome. This was also explained  in the leaflet  the adjudicator 
sent Mr W confirming his complaint was being passed to an ombudsman.  
there wasnt sufficient time for me to adequately consider the complaint
While Mr Ws complaint was with me for a relatively  short period, Im satisfied I had sufficient 
opportunity to fully consider all the evidence.  I think the key issues were fairly 
straightforward, and in my view turned  on what Avivas obligations to Mr W were with 
particular reference  to him being able to access  information about his policy  online. As Ive 
explained above, its for this reason I wanted sight of the contractual  terms and conditions. 
I appreciate Mr Ws point  about my referring  to the adjudicator as he. I should clarify that Id 
had no contact with the adjudicator prior to the complaint being  passed to me, and shed left 
the service by that point. For whatever reason, I assumed the adjudicator was male. I accept 
this was an error, for which I apologise. 
But while acknowledging this point,  my view of Mr Ws complaint didnt depend on the 
adjudicators gender. I took full account  of the assessment the adjudicator had made, and 
referred to this in my provisional decision. So its not correct  for Mr W to assume  the error 
shows that I didnt  give his complaint proper consideration.
the merits of Mr Ws complaint
I explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt think Aviva had any obligation, either  
regulatory or contractual, to allow Mr W to review  his policy online. While Mr W has raised 
concerns about  the way his complaint has been  dealt  with, hes not disputed  this. Nor has he 
Ref: DRN63353833provided any further evidence or arguments  in relation to the merits of his complaint. As 
such, I have no reason  to change my opinion.  
Its important to note that the adjudicator accepted  that the provision of online access  was 
discretionary. Despite  this, the adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld.  Im not 
convinced thats  the right outcome, and Im unable to order  Aviva  to pay Mr W compensation 
on the basis the adjudicator proposed.
I appreciate Mr W was disappointed by the change in outcome. But Im unable to uphold his 
complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63353834COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  doesnt allow him to view his pension  plan via 
an online platform. Hes also unhappy because he doesnt receive statements every six months.
background
Mr W started a self-invested personal  pension  (SIPP) with AXA in 2007.  Administration of the SIPP 
was later taken over by Friends Life, which in turn was taken over by Aviva in 2017.
Mr W complained to Aviva  in October 2017. He said that since his SIPP was taken over by Aviva, he 
hadnt been able to see how it was performing online. He thought this was unacceptable. He also said 
hed been told by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that he should be receiving statements  every 
six months. 
Aviva said it understood  that Mr W wanted to check his pension online,  and apologised for the fact 
that he wasnt  able to do so. It said it was working  hard to allow all its customers to be able to do this, 
but was unable to give a timescale when this would be available. But 
Mr W could  obtain details of his SIPP by making an enquiry by telephone,  email or in writing. Aviva 
also explained  that as the SIPP was a pension plan, it was only required to issue statements once a 
year. 
Mr W remained dissatisfied  and referred the matter to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. He noted that Mr W had been able to check  
his policy online  before it moved to Aviva. And while  the provision of this service  is discretionary,  its 
something hes had the advantage of since he started his SIPP. Mr W should  be compensated for the 
trouble and upset hes been caused by the withdrawal of this facility,  and the frustration of not 
knowing when it will become available. The adjudicator proposed that Aviva should pay Mr W £300.
Aviva didnt accept the adjudicators view. It noted the adjudicator accepted that online access to the 
pension was discretionary. As such, it isnt obliged to provide this service. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved, it has been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that Mr W was able to view his SIPP online  while it was administered first by AXA and 
then by Friends Life. But when Aviva took over the administration in 2017  it closed the Friends Life 
platform, with the intention of replacing  it with its own version. Unfortunately,  it hasnt been able to 
complete this work, and is also unable to say when this will happen.  
I appreciate Mr W finds this situation very frustrating.  Hes lost a facility he seems to have valued. But 
I must also bear in mind  theres no regulatory  requirement for Aviva  to offer an online platform  for its 
investment plans. Whether or not to do so is a commercial decision  Aviva is able make.  
Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions  applying  to Mr Ws SIPP. Aviva has confirmed these 
didnt change  as a result of it taking over the administration of the plan. So the original AXA terms and 
conditions continue to apply. Theres nothing within these  that refers  to the provision of an online 
facility to view investments. As such, I can find no contractual obligation on Avivas part. 
Ref: DRN63353835But Aviva  did provide other means by which  Mr W could check the value and performance of his 
investments. Mr W could request information about his SIPP by applying by phone  or email.  I can 
understand that may not have been  as convenient as being able to obtain information on his 
computer. But it would nonetheless allow  Mr W to keep  in touch with how his pension  was doing. 
Aviva has confirmed  that it working  towards having an online facility in place,  although is unable to 
give any definite timescale for this. 
Mr W has also complained as he thinks he should receive statements  half-yearly. But as has been 
clarified previously, as the SIPP is a pension  plan Aviva is only required to issue a statement  once a 
year.  
my provisional  decision
I do not uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6335383