K820x#14complaint
Mr V and Mr A say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1992. To make things easier, Ill just refer to the 
seller as being Bank of Scotland in the rest of this decision.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr V and Mr As complaint. As they didnt  agree  with the 
adjudicators opinion, Mr V and Mr As complaint was referred to me. Provisionally, I also 
took the view that their complaint shouldnt  be upheld. But, as Id added  to the reasoning  
given by the adjudicator, I issued a provisional decision. That decision set out my views on 
the key issues  and the conclusions Id provisionally  reached. I gave Mr V, Mr A and Bank of 
Scotland the opportunity  to provide any further  information or comments before  I made a 
final decision.
Mr V and Mr A made a number of representations in response  to my provisional decision. 
Ive summarised these below:
the provisional decision was based  on supposition rather than evidence.  It was a face 
saving exercise backing up the opinion of the adjudicator, in which  facts  were 
missed.
Id failed to answer the questions theyd posed.
it wasnt made clear to them by Bank of Scotland that the policy  was optional, and 
they were coerced  into buying it. They felt their word  was not good enough for me 
about their savings, but that Id accepted Bank of Scotlands word  about there being 
no coercion and making it clear PPI was optional  as being good  enough.
Bank of Scotland has likely mis-sold  many  PPI policies, but its being treated as a 
more reliable witness than them, when they have  diligently been truthful in what they 
have said. Where  a business  has not provided evidence to exonerate  itself,  its track 
record of past sales/behaviours should apply.
they paid a total of £43,904 in lump sum payments throughout the life of the 
mortgage. These were  from savings  from various banks. Their savings were in fixed  
long term arrangements, so werent  available at the time they took out the mortgage, 
because they wouldve  incurred penalty  charges if theyd  withdrawn them early. They 
wouldve had to pay more in incurred charges for cashing in their investments early 
than they wouldve  had to pay in mortgage interest. These  lump  sum payments 
hadnt been fully considered by me. Its not fair for me to say that they preferred to 
take a mortgage rather than reduce their borrowing. It was financially more beneficial 
for them to wait for their savings to mature.
Mr V produced a list of his account holdings,  compiled by him, dated 29 August 1992.  
He said he prepared  this once the mortgage was up and running. He explained hed 
forgotten hed prepared  it and had given it to Mr A many  years ago. He added  that 
they had gone through  all their documents and recently found this. He said this 
diminished the information  given  by Bank of Scotland about the maximum balance in 
his current account.
Mr V said hed been misquoted  in the provisional decision. He hadnt said he used 
his Bank  of Scotland account to pay large  sums  off his mortgage, he said he 
believes that some  of the lump sum repayments came from this account . There  is a 
subtle difference  and I had unfairly jumped to the conclusion that Mr Vs word was 
unreliable. He said Id believed Mr V had only one savings account,  the Bank of 
Scotland one, opened in 1994.
Ref: DRN63612892they opted for a repayment mortgage because they knew  they were  contractually 
free to pay the mortgage off as soon as their savings  became available.
culturally they believe in working  hard,  saving  and using their monies appropriately, 
with careful consideration. They concentrated on paying off the mortgage  rather than 
taking holidays.  This hadnt been taken into consideration.
they have  been  consistent with their message about being pressured  into buying  the 
PPI. English is a second language for them and they can only express  their 
experience to their best of their ability. No one else can minimise or discredit their 
experience.
As Mr V and Mr A dont accept my provisional  decision, their complaint comes  back  to me to 
decide.
Bank of Scotland made no comment on my provisional decision.
the facts
the mortgage
Mr V and Mr A took out a joint mortgage in 1992 for £61,000. They  cleared the mortgage 
within seven years. They made regular lump sum payments towards  their mortgage. The 
first lump  sum payment was made in April 1993,  around  8 months after their mortgage  
began. The mortgage ended in 1999.  
Mr V says he became  the sole mortgage  holder around 1993.
the policy
Alongside their mortgage they took out a monthly  premium PPI policy.  The PPI policy  initially 
cost £32.50 per month and provided £650  per month of mortgage repayment cover. This 
was enough to cover their mortgage  repayments  in full. The policy wouldve paid out for up 
to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Based on the limited  information now available, Bank of Scotland  cant say if both Mr V and 
Mr A were  covered under the policy, or if just Mr V was covered. Initially  it said only Mr V 
was covered. Mr V said the PPI was in his sole name.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.  
Mr V and Mr A have written  to us on many occasions setting  out the points that they feel 
should be considered in their case. I thank Mr V and Mr A for the time and effort  that they 
have put into arguing their case. I can see they feel very strongly that their complaint should be 
upheld. They have  put their points across  clearly.
Mr V and Mr A have also asked me to answer some questions, which they think  I must 
answer to decide  this complaint. Its been explained to them that its not our services 
practice to answer  specific  questions  from parties  about the merits of the case  we are 
deciding. We will consider  all the evidence given, but wont necessarily comment  in our 
Ref: DRN63612893decision on each and every point made,  unless in our view its necessary to do so for the fair 
resolution of the complaint. Id like to assure Mr V and Mr A again  that I have carefully read 
and considered everything  theyve sent in  as well as considering the information  that Bank 
of Scotland has sent us. I have reviewed  their papers on a number of occasions now.  My 
findings are my own, and are independent of the adjudicators.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  this complaint relates to something that happened 
around 27 years ago. So there is very little paperwork from the time now available.  This is 
understandable. Banks arent  obliged  to keep records indefinitely.  They  often keep records 
for only six years. Mr V and Mr As mortgage account was closed around 20 years  ago. 
Similarly, I wouldnt expect Mr V and Mr A to have a detailed recollection  or to have kept all 
their paperwork  from this long ago. 
What this means is that there are gaps in the information and evidence.  Where this is the 
case, I have to base  my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is most likely, given the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
So that this decision  can be read independently of my provisional  decision, I have repeated  
relevant parts from that decision  here, as well as dealing with the additional  representations 
made since then.
Having reviewed everything that Mr V, Mr A and Bank of Scotland have said and provided, I 
am still of the view that more likely than not this policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr V and Mr As representations  (before my provisional decision)
In my provisional decision,  I summarised  Mr V and Mr As main areas of complaint, at that 
time, as being:
they were pressured into taking PPI by Bank of Scotland and it had not produced any 
evidence to the contrary. They  didnt  need or want the cover.
Bank of Scotland had not provided  any evidence to show that it made it clear to them 
that PPI was optional.  They were coerced into buying PPI, believing if they didnt 
purchase it they wouldnt get the mortgage.
the policy didnt  provide them  with any benefit.
the adjudicators  opinion  was biased  in favour of the business and unfair.  It didnt 
take into consideration all material facts and what they had said.
they both had savings worth  more than 12 months of their salaries. Coupled with 
their regular  salaries, and Mr Vs extra income from a second  job, this allowed their 
mortgage to be settled within seven years.
they were in good health and had secure  employment.
when asking for evidence of their savings it was unfair for us not to take account  of 
the length of time that had passed,  the fact our questionnaire didnt point out that 
evidence of savings  was required,  and that their mortgage had been  settled with 
monies from various accounts  which had long been closed. Mr V said he couldnt 
remember the amount  of his savings. Mr A said he thought  he had around £20,000 in 
savings at the time. They said the adjudicator had failed  to take into account the fact 
that the mortgage was settled within seven years. 
the evidence  they had provided of their later financial position provided  a true 
reflection of their financial stability at the time they bought the PPI.
Ref: DRN63612894To decide this complaint, Ive also considered these representations,  on top of the ones 
made in response  to my provisional  decision.
pressure and choice
I cant know what was discussed at the time the PPI was sold.  There are no 
contemporaneous notes from the time to show me this. As Ive said before, thats not 
surprising given how long ago this policy was sold. 
Mr V and Mr A say, in summary, that as Bank of Scotland cant  provide any evidence,  I 
should take into account Bank of Scotlands past sales conduct  when  considering this 
complaint.
This service considers each case on its own individual set of facts  and merits. It is fair to say 
that this service has seen  a number of mis-sale complaints involving Bank  of Scotland 
mortgage PPI policies, some of which may have been sold around the same time as Mr V 
and Mr A were sold their policy.  But not all such policies were  mis-sold and Im not aware of 
any identified systemic  failure relevant to the sale of this policy. So, that takes me back to 
the situation where I must consider this case on its own individual  facts  and circumstances,  
based on the available information about  this particular sale.  
To decide whether there was any coercion, Ive carefully taken into account what  Mr V and 
Mr A recall  from the time. In particular, Mr V and Mr A have said they were made to feel 
insecure and pressurized into purchasing the PPI policy,  which  I then did purchase.  They  
said they remembered feeling pressured into buying  PPI because of the worst case  
scenarios that were  presented to me by the sales person. 
Establishing whether customers were unfairly  pressured  into taking PPI is a very subjective 
area. Based on the limited  information  now available,  and taking into account what  Mr V and 
Mr A recall  about why they felt this amounted  to coercion, Ive decided that this is not 
enough for me to uphold this aspect  of their complaint. Ive taken into account what  Mr V and 
Mr A have said about English not being  their first language. But from what Ive seen of their 
communication skills in their handling of this complaint, and given the nature of the jobs they 
held at the time of sale, I cant see that more  likely  than not they wouldve lost out because 
of this. 
From what  Ive seen, I consider it more likely that the adviser  was providing Mr V and Mr A 
with information  about the PPI, so that they could  make a choice about  whether they wanted  
to buy it. Its possible that the adviser strongly recommended the PPI and encouraged them 
to have it, which might have felt like pressure to Mr V and Mr A, but this was not taking away 
their choice. And I cant see, for example, that they were clearly  misled into believing that 
they had to take PPI to get the mortgage or to get a particular mortgage rate.
Mr V and Mr A havent told us clearly about anything specific  that Bank of Scotland did or 
said which in my view wouldve amounted to unfair pressure. So, Im not satisfied that more 
likely than not they were  unreasonably persuaded or pressured into buying PPI. 
Also, had PPI been presented as compulsory, there wouldve been no need  for the adviser  
to try and encourage them to take it by discussing worst case scenarios.  So, on balance, I 
am also of the view that Bank of Scotland probably  did make it clear  that PPI was an 
optional and separate product and Mr V and Mr A said at the time they wanted it, having 
been given a fair choice about that at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN63612895So, I do not uphold  their complaint on this ground.
suitability
Bank of Scotland has proceeded on the basis  that the PPI was recommended to Mr V and 
Mr A at a meeting in one of its branches. Mr V and Mr A said this was the case, and I think 
theyre likely  to be right. Based on the information now available,  its not clear to me whether  
this was an advised sale or not (in other  words,  whether Bank of Scotland specifically 
recommended PPI to them). But, to be fair to Mr V and Mr A, Ive treated  it as an advised  
sale, as that means  Bank of Scotland had the additional responsibility of advising them  on 
the suitability of the policy for their needs.  
Ive also proceeded  on the basis that Mr V and Mr A were jointly covered under the policy.  
But, even  if only Mr V was covered, I still cant see that this wouldve made the policy  
unsuitable for them. 
From what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  Im of the view the policy was 
suitable because:
they were eligible  to take out this PPI.
Mr V told us shortly before I issued my provisional decision that he was working  in a 
second job at the time of sale, as well as his main  job. I asked him for some  more 
information about this. He said he was working  for an agency, doing  the same  type of 
work as his main  job, in his spare time at weekends or in the evenings  on an ad hoc 
basis. He said this second income helped  them clear their mortgage  quicker.  I have 
considered the position carefully.  Based on what Mr V has said about  his second job, 
I cant see that they wouldve lost out because of Mr V having this second job. If he 
wasnt well enough  to work in his main  job, I think it unlikely that he wouldve been  
able to work in his agency job, given it was the same type of work.  So, I dont think 
this wouldve had any impact on his ability to claim on the policy for disability benefits 
(accident and sickness).  And if he was made involuntarily unemployed from his main  
job, it looks as if he wouldve still been able to claim unemployment benefit  under  the 
policy whilst working  in his agency  job, as long as he overall worked less than 16 
hours per week. So, I dont think the terms and conditions  of the policy  were onerous  
for someone in Mr Vs situation. And I dont think this wouldve put them off taking out 
the policy. 
According to the mortgage records Mr V was earning around £17,000 and Mr A 
around £13,000 at the time of sale. Mr V and Mr A said the mortgage was in joint 
names not because  of their income  levels,  but because they were living together with 
no dependants and it was usual  in their family to share living expenses.  However, 
they said it was envisaged  that Mr A was going  to move out and it was intended that 
Mr V would become  the sole mortgage  holder. I think PPI couldve provided  them  
both with valuable  protection in these circumstances.  
I cant see that they were affected by any of the other main limitations or exclusions 
in the policy  that otherwise couldve made it difficult for them  to make a successful 
claim. So, they couldve benefitted  from everything  the policy offered. 
Ref: DRN63612896Mr A couldnt recall which employer he was working for at the time of the sale.  They  
both said they wouldve  got benefits through work if they were off work sick or made  
unemployed. But, I cant see that this made  the policy unsuitable.  PPI wouldve been 
paid on top of their work benefits,  allowing them to use their work benefits  to meet  
their other household  expenditure.
the policy didnt  appear to be unaffordable  for them  and as they were  paying for it 
monthly, it couldve been cancelled at any time without them losing out financially.
they said they got no benefit from having PPI as they were  in secure jobs and in 
good health. But, PPI is designed to cover specific but unforeseen circumstances, so 
the fact that Mr V and Mr A didnt  have cause to claim  on the policy  doesnt mean it 
was unsuitable  for them when it was sold. 
they said culturally they were different and were focussed on paying off their 
mortgage as soon as possible. The PPI couldve provided them with valuable  
protection to ensure that their mortgage repayments were  met if they were off sick or 
lost their job, without them  having to dip into their savings.  I think this mightve been 
important to them, at least in the short term, because they were  reluctant to interfere 
with their savings plans. Also, Mr Vs income  from his agency work wasnt  a 
guaranteed source  of income, even though he said there  was plenty of agency work 
available. 
suitability and savings
Mr V and Mr A resisted strongly our request  for additional information  about their savings at 
the time of sale, suggesting we were acting  unfairly and our motivation for requesting this 
information was race or age discriminatory. We tried to reassure Mr V and Mr A that where  
we consider particular evidence  may be relevant to the outcome of the case, as with the 
savings information  here,  this service will often  ask the parties to provide further information.  
They provided information about  their current savings. Circumstances can change  over time, 
however, so the fact that Mr V and Mr A have  a good amount of savings now,  in 2019,  
doesnt in my view show  that back in 1992 their resources were  such that they didnt  have 
any need for PPI.
They told us they couldnt approach any banks to obtain official  information about their 
position in 1992, after such a long time,  and they simply couldnt remember  all of the banks 
they had their savings  accounts with. 
Mr V said he had a savings account with Bank  of Scotland. He produced a passbook  for this 
account. He suggested that Bank  of Scotland might be asked about  the lump  sum mortgage 
repayments. 
Under our inquisitorial remit,  and given the emphasis the consumers had placed  on not 
needing PPI because of their level of savings, this service asked Bank  of Scotland  to provide  
us with details  of Mr Vs accounts held with it in or around the time of sale.  This information 
would of course have  been directly available to Mr V had he asked Bank of Scotland  to 
supply him (or us) with it. We asked Bank of Scotland for information about  any accounts 
Mr V had with it at or around the time he took out his mortgage in 1992. It was also asked for 
details of the lump  sum payments made  to clear the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN63612897Bank of Scotland responded and said, in summary,  that in 1992, when Mr V took out his 
mortgage, he only had a current account  with it, and that around  that time the maximum 
credit balance in that account was about  £590. 
Bank of Scotland said the passbook account  wasnt opened until 1994,  over a year after the 
mortgage was taken out. I could see from the passbook there  was a large deposit (relative to 
their mortgage) into that account, but that wasnt until 1999,  so a good  number of years after 
the mortgage was taken  out.
Bank of Scotland provided  information showing that Mr V and Mr A had made payments 
totalling over £58,000  towards their mortgage  between 1993 and 1996. In the first year of 
their mortgage £3,200  was paid in lump  sum payments.  The first lump sum payment was 
made in April 1993, for £1200, around  8 months  after they took out their mortgage. Over 
£25,700 was paid during  the second year, £20,000  during the third year and around £9,700 
in the fourth year. Its not in dispute  that these lump  sum payments were paid. Bank of 
Scotland cant say where the payments originated from. To be clear, I accept that its 
possible that Mr V and Mr A may have had other  savings accounts at the time of the sale of 
the PPI and afterwards  and that the information  that Bank of Scotland has provided is limited  
to Bank  of Scotland  accounts.
I think the information provided  by Bank  of Scotland about Mr Vs account history from 1992,  
and the information about the account he produced  a passbook for, can reasonably  be relied 
on when considering this complaint. I say this because  this information appears to have 
been recorded on Bank of Scotlands  computerised systems, or in the passbook, at the time 
in question, long before this complaint was made or in contemplation. 
The crux of Mr V and Mr As case is that evidence of their early repayment  of the mortgage 
should be good enough to show that they had enough savings at the time of the sale not to 
have needed the insurance.  
Mr V appears now to be saying that his savings were in the region of £31,000 around the 
time of sale.  Mr A said he recalled having around  £20,000. Two days  after I issued my 
provisional decision, Mr V provided  this service with a list he said he had recently found, 
located with his will and prepared for use upon his death. He said this provided details of his 
account holdings  in 1992. He said this was a contemporaneous document  put together by 
him in August 1992. I have  thought carefully about  how much reliance I can place  on this list. 
Fairly, and based  on what Ive seen and been  told, I consider  that I can place little or no 
weight on it. Whilst I have  thought carefully  about what  Mr V has said,  I havent enough to 
independently verify the information contained  in the list. Given the timing and circumstances 
of when this list was first sent to this service,  I would need  more than I currently  have,  to 
place any greater reliance  on it. Importantly, however, even if Mr V had around £31,000 in 
savings in 1992 (which may be right), taking into account what  else hes recently said about  
his savings (that he was waiting for them to mature),  I still dont think this wouldve made the 
policy clearly unsuitable  for them. 
Ref: DRN63612898Its clear from Bank of Scotlands records that Mr V and Mr A paid over £58,000  off their 
mortgage between  April 1993 and May 1996.  But, I dont take from this that their savings 
and other  resources must therefore have been at such a level when they took out the 
insurance as to make it unsuitable for them.  I note in the first year of their mortgage the lump 
sum payments were at their lowest (totalling £3,200). Given  what  theyve said, and their 
history of repayment, it seems likely that any savings  they had were  less accessible at the 
outset, and became  more  accessible  as the investments  matured over time. 
So, Im not persuaded that Mr V and Mr As means, general circumstances and financial 
objectives at the time were such that the policy was clearly unsuitable for them. I think the 
policy couldve provided them with useful protection to safeguard their home, given the long 
term nature  of the mortgage agreement theyd  entered into and that their home  was at risk if 
they didnt keep up with their repayments.
informed choice
Bank of Scotland also had to provide Mr V and Mr A with information  about  the PPI that was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so that they could make an informed choice about whether 
they wanted to buy it. 
Mr V and Mr A said they spread their savings around to ensure their money was safe and 
they could earn maximum interest. They said some of their money was held in fixed long- 
term accounts or long term investments, such that the money was not immediately available,  
but they knew it was there for their security. Theyve told us they made a number  of 
deliberate financial  choices when they took out the mortgage. Firstly,  they took the mortgage  
rather than cashing  in their long-term investments, because  it was financially beneficial to do 
so. Also,  they took a repayment rather than an endowment mortgage, because they 
intended to pay off their mortgage sooner. This suggests to me that they were capable  of 
making informed financial  decisions. I consider it highly likely, given the level of financial 
awareness they appeared to have,  that they wouldve known exactly  what their financial 
position was back  in 1992.
I said in my provisional decision that its possible  that one of the reasons  they were  
persuaded to protect their property  through PPI was that Mr V might become solely 
responsible for the repayments, because  Mr A envisaged moving out. Mr V and Mr A have 
said that is supposition on my part and unfounded. I also said that Mr V and Mr A mightve  
liked the security of having savings, over reducing  their borrowing. Again, they say this is 
unfounded and not backed up by evidence.  I cant know what was in Mr V and Mr As minds  
back in 1992.  Theyve  put forward their explanation for why they ended up taking PPI, when 
they didnt want  or need it. But, there  are other  plausible explanations that also could be 
offered for why Mr V and Mr A took PPI back in 1992. For example, they mightve 
considered it preferable and beneficial to pay the monthly PPI premium (which  could be 
cancelled at any time) in case they lost their jobs or were too sick to work, to avoid having to 
cash in their long- term investments and pay early  withdrawal  charges to repay their monthly 
mortgage repayments. After all, this was an important consideration in relation to taking out 
the mortgage and deciding to pay interest on it. On balance, I find these other  explanations 
more likely, given what Ive said above about  optionality and coercion, and what  Mr V and Mr 
A have  explained  about  their financial awareness  at the time of sale.
 
Ref: DRN63612899Based on the limited  information now available, I cant know if everything in this sale 
happened as it should have. Its possible it didnt.  I dont  know for example what Mr V and 
Mr A were  told about the cost of the policy. Because of that, Ive looked at whether they may 
have lost out because of anything that Bank of Scotland  may have  done  wrong.  I cant  see 
that they have.  I say this because: 
the policy appeared suitable for their needs  for the reasons Ive set out above;
Ive found  that they likely  knew  it was optional and more  likely than not they werent 
unfairly pressured into taking it;
from what theyve said about their other financial decisions they took around the 
same time, they seemed  able to make important financial decisions, weighing up all 
the choices and options available  to them;
the policy appeared affordable at £32.50  per month and couldve been cancelled at 
any time if their situation changed or they no longer  wanted PPI.
Im not satisfied that Mr V and Mr A have lost out because of not being provided  with better 
information, or that they wouldve changed their decision and not taken out the policy if given 
clearer information. 
So, overall, and while I know Mr V and Mr A feel strongly that this policy was mis-sold and 
will be disappointed by my findings here,  for the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold  their 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr V and Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361289