K821x#15complaint
Mr N through his representative Ms M complains  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with his claim under a travel insurance  policy.  
He wants compensation.
background
Mr N had a travel insurance policy with IPA. He became unwell while abroad with Ms M due 
to an infected  abscess and cellulitis. Mr N needed surgery  to drain  the abscess. He felt that 
IPA hadnt given him reasonable  assistance while he needed medical attention;  Mr N said 
that IPA had sent him to a cardiology hospital that couldnt deal with his condition and didnt 
give a guarantee  that it would pay for treatment to the hospital that could help. Ms M said 
that both Mr N and she were forced to fly back to the UK and cut their trip short  in order  to 
get Mr N treated. She also said that IPA didnt do anything to assist  and its staff were rude.
Ms M complained to IPA. It said it was fair and reasonable for it to require a medical  report  
about Mr Ns situation, his medical records  and his flight  booking details. IPA explained that 
Mr Ns GP hadnt provided  the medical records requested, which  prevented it from giving a 
guarantee to the hospital treating him abroad. IPA said that it understood Mr N needed 
surgery and offered a disclaimer  to cover the costs  with the warning that if Mr N wasnt 
covered by the terms and conditions of the policy, hed have to pay the costs.  It noted this 
offer was rejected as Ms M had made arrangements to return  Mr N to the UK.
But IPA thought that it shouldve made  this offer a couple of hours earlier, and accepted 
Ms M was given a list of hospitals who it worked with, which included a hospital who didnt  
treat Mr Ns condition. This caused an unnecessary trip. IPA also agreed that one of its 
members of staff didnt handle Ms Ms call appropriately and didnt take the circumstances 
into account. It offered  £250 compensation to Mr N for the trouble and upset caused by 
these failings.
Ms M complained to us. The investigators  view was that IPA hadnt  acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably; it was reasonable to check the claim was valid and to wait for information to 
be received. The investigator noted  that the GP was difficult  in supplying the medical  
records; this wasnt IPAs  fault as it did chase the matter up. He said that IPA in the 
circumstances was correct to only offer to pay costs if Mr N agreed to repay if his claim 
wasnt valid, but by then Mr N had decided to fly to the UK when  the evidence  suggested  
that he wasnt fit to fly. The investigator said that it was Mr N and Ms Ms choice to fly home 
when it wasnt medically necessary  to return to the UK, and if Mr N had followed the medical  
advice, he wouldve stayed where he was. He pointed out that Ms M only notified  IPA of 
Mr Ns ill-health (which  had been on-going for over a week  and had been treated previously 
while on holiday) when  he needed emergency  treatment. The investigator thought the offer 
£250 was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
Ms M disagreed. She said IPA sent her and Mr N to the wrong hospital, did nothing and she 
was expected to contact  the GP who said it hadnt  heard from IPA.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN62638692The relevant rules  and industry guidelines  say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  I understand that Mr Ns 
medical costs have been paid by IPA so I wont deal with this issue.
I dont think IPA has acted  fairly  or reasonably when dealing with Mr Ns claim.  While Ms M 
didnt contact it until Mr N needed  emergency treatment, what  IPA knew  demonstrated that 
Mr N was seriously ill and treatment shouldnt be delayed. It knew Mr N had an infected  
abscess which needed urgent draining.  It knew that previous attempts to treat had failed.  Its 
own staff even noted that this was a case with a high risk of sepsis, a potentially fatal 
condition if the right antibiotics arent  administered at an early stage.
IPAs response was to give Ms M details of hospitals that couldnt help, and to require sight  
of medical records that were unlikely in the circumstances  to contain evidence  of a relevant 
pre-existing medical condition. While  IPA did chase the records,  it accepted the response 
that the records would be provided  by the end of the day, several hours later.  And even IPA 
accepts that the fair and reasonable approach wouldve been to tell Ms M earlier  it couldnt 
give a guarantee,  but it would offer to cover  the costs with the understanding  that if the claim 
wasnt valid, Mr N would  pay. This was an emergency life and limb threatening situation.
Im satisfied that due to IPAs actions, Ms M and Mr N felt that they had no choice but to take 
a risk and fly to the UK. When they decided to do so, IPA still hadnt offered the disclaimer 
option and its evident that for much  of the preceding  hours, Ms M wasnt getting any 
meaningful help. Ms M and Mr N havent though proved the loss of the items that they claim 
to have left behind. I also agree that if the mistake hadnt happened,  they wouldve stayed 
abroad and had Mr N treated there,  potentially continuing their holiday afterwards.
Was it medically necessary for Mr N to fly home? From a strictly medical perspective,  I think 
its unlikely. The hospital could treat Mr N and was willing to do so if paid. From an emotional 
perspective, while I understand why the risk was taken, IPA did actually offer the disclaimer 
before Ms M and Mr N got to the airport and they chose to go home.
Having looked  at the evidence, I dont think the compensation offered for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the delay  in offering the disclaimer, by sending  Mr N to a hospital that 
couldnt help,  by failing to give timely assistance and by acting in a way which I think did 
cause Mr N to take the significant risk to fly home is fair or reasonable. And I note IPA itself 
accepts that its staff didnt  give good  service to Ms M in how they spoke  to her. 
Its Mr Ns trouble and upset I must consider as Ms M isnt named on the policy,  and I think  
its likely  that he was terrified,  in pain and frightened that he was going to die. The failure to 
send Mr N to the right type of hospital  from the outset increased the risk he faced and is 
particularly serious  as he had to make  his own way to the wrong hospital. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset, but I think £1000 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
reflection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62638693In response to my provisional decision,  Ms M said that she and Mr N felt that I had 
understood their position. IPA disagreed. It set out the timeline of events (which  matched my 
findings) and said that part of the difficulty was that it couldnt  reach  Ms M over the course of 
a two-minute period  (IPA said that it was an hour over which  it couldnt reach Ms M, but its 
own timeline said two minutes).  It felt that the compensation  I recommended was not 
consistent with other  decisions  of this service given the level of its failings.
I have thought about what the parties  have said. I think  though  that IPA has misunderstood 
the basis on which compensation  for trouble and upset is awarded.  Its not calculated  on the 
basis of the failings; its calculated on the basis of the trouble and upset caused by the 
failings. This is inevitably  looked at on a case by case basis, though  I have borne in mind 
previous decisions  of this service and our guidance. The trouble and upset caused to Mr N 
by IPAs unfair and unreasonable handling  of his claim was very serious and warrants the 
level of compensation  I have previously proposed. 
And I note that IPA dwells on an alleged inability to reach Ms M  this is when she was in 
hospital in a foreign country with a seriously  ill person.  I certainly dont think two minutes is 
long enough  to try to reach her; an hour is more appropriate but in any event IPA says that it 
was right to delay matters  while it tried to get hold of the GPs records.  It says the risk of 
Mr N getting sepsis was minimal  it has provided no medical  evidence  supporting  this 
position. And Mr N was being told he needed emergency treatment from those who were 
actually treating him (who were medically  qualified). The reason he wasnt treated  abroad 
was due to IPA delaying matters and not providing  the offer to assess  the claim  later in good 
time.
In light of the above, I remain of the view as set out in my provisional decision and will make 
it my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Inter Partner  Assistance  SA should pay 
Mr N £1000 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6263869