K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Home Retail  Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos, have 
charged her too much interest.
background
In December 2015 Miss N bought a phone using  her Argos card on buy now pay later 
(BNPL) terms.  She knew that the debt would attract interest if it wasnt paid in full in the 
prescribed period  but she thought that interest  would only be charged  on the outstanding 
balance. She didnt think Argos had made it clear to her that interest would be charged  on 
the daily balance  instead.
She complained to Argos but they thought  theyd  not done anything  wrong  so Miss N 
referred her complaint  to this service  and our investigator provided his opinion.  He agreed 
with Argos. He explained that the terms and conditions of the Argos card set out that the 
interest would  be deferred for a BNPL transaction. So interest was being charged  from the 
date of purchase but would only be added to the account at the end of the BNPL period  if 
there was still an outstanding  balance.
He also noted  that this had been  explained on Miss Ns card statement which  set out the 
interest due and also explained how making a part payment wouldnt reduce the interest 
much. So he didnt think it would be fair to suggest Argos  had done anything wrong.
But Miss N disagreed and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Miss Ns Argos card and can see that they explain 
what deferred interest meant, as follows:
If you do not repay the balance of this plan in full by the end of the BNPL  plan period, 
interest will be charged daily on the plan  backdated to the date of the original BNPL 
purchase.
Ive also reviewed Miss Ns December statement. The implications of not paying off the full 
balance within the plan period are explained clearly  and unambiguously. 
Ref: DRN61059742So I think Argos have been  fair in the way theyve charged interest to the account  and I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6105974