K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Leeds Permanent  Building  
Society) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1988.  Bank of Scotlands records  show  that in 1991 
they took out a monthly premium PPI policy when they took out a further advance on the 
mortgage.
The policy covered Mr W. It would have  paid Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage payments 
for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say that they werent  told the PPI was optional,  and that they were 
unaware that theyd  taken  it out. Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide copies of 
the paperwork Mr and Mrs W completed when  they applied for their mortgage  loans  or 
the PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago the sale took 
place. But Ive borne  in mind that by the time they took out the PPI, theyd had the 
mortgage without  PPI for nearly  three years. And I think its unlikely that theyd have 
thought the PPI was compulsory. On balance, I think its more  likely that Bank  of 
Scotland made Mr and Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional and that they decided to 
take it, knowing that they didnt have to. But I can understand  how they may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
Bank of Scotland no longer has a record of how the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs W, and 
Mr and Mrs W arent sure either. For the purposes  of this decision, Ive assumed that 
Mr and Mrs W applied for the PPI at a meeting, and that Bank of Scotland  recommended 
the PPI to them. This is to Mr and Mrs Ws advantage,  as it means that Bank of Scotland  
had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN60450112Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs W have  told us that Mr W was self-employed at the 
time the policy  was taken out. But the terms of the policy  wouldnt have made it harder 
for a self-employed person  to make  a claim than for someone who was employed. So 
I dont think the fact that Mr W was self-employed made the policy  unsuitable for him. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W have told us that Mr W was paid through  dividends 
from their company,  and that those would have  continued even if Mr W was off sick. But 
I think its unlikely  that dividends  could have been guaranteed. And the policy would have 
paid out in addition  to any dividends  Mr and Mrs W did receive. So I think the policy 
could have been useful to them at what would have  been a stressful time.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W have told us they could have relied  on their family for 
financial support. But circumstances  can change,  and I cant  be sure that Mr and 
Mrs Ws family would  have been  in a position  to support them if the need had arisen. 
Mr and Mrs W have  also mentioned  that they had life cover  and health insurance. But 
those are different  types of insurance,  and would have paid out in different 
circumstances from the PPI. So I dont think the fact that Mr and Mrs W had those types 
of cover meant that they didnt need PPI.
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage  was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured  on Mr and Mrs Ws home, and the consequences  of not keeping 
up with their mortgage payments could have been  serious.  So I think  the PPI would have 
given them valuable peace of mind.
It may be that Bank  of Scotland could have  explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did. But the policy was competitively priced,  and Ive seen nothing to make  me think 
Mr and Mrs W couldnt afford it. So Im not convinced that better information about the 
cost of the policy would have put Mr and Mrs W off taking it out.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
from what theyve told us about  their circumstances at the time, its unlikely that Mr and 
Mrs W would  have been affected  by any of these.  So I dont think  better  information  
would have affected Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take the PPI. On balance,  I think theyd 
still have taken it out.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including  what theyve said about the 
fact that they didnt  claim on the PPI when  Mr W was made redundant in 1989. But although  
they already had the mortgage  then, they hadnt  yet taken out the PPI. So these points dont 
change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6045011