K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr G complain that Bank  of Scotland plc wrongly told them they had to take out 
insurance protection as a condition of its mortgage  offer; they didnt need the policy  given 
their employee cover; and werent  told how much commission they were  paying.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.  He noted that 
their mortgage offer stated that life and critical cover was not mandatory  and felt the policy  
overall matched  their circumstances and mortgage commitment.
He did not feel that their short term employee sick pay was sufficient to make this 
recommendation unsuitable, particularly  as such benefits were not guaranteed, even if one 
stayed in the same job, while the mortgage  was due to last for 30 years.
He noted Miss S and Mr Gs detailed arguments about the failure to disclose commission but 
said that the Plevin ruling (largely concerning PPI) did not apply to mortgage  policies  which 
had always been  governed by regulations.
He also responded to their query  about  whether the critical  illness cover was, or should have 
been free, saying  that the documentation made clear  there  was a discrete additional cost to 
this.
Miss S and Mr G disagreed, reiterating  that they both clearly remember that they were 
forced into taking this policy out. They  did not require any cover as both of their parents 
would have helped  out should they not have been able to have met their mortgage  
payments. They  have never had cover on any of the other  three subsequent purchases.  This 
was forced  on them  to gain a hefty  commission and they have spoken to previous bank 
employees who made it clear they were required to act in this way. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
To uphold  a complaint, I need  to see sufficient, persuasive evidence  to fairly conclude  that 
the business did something wrong.  Crucially, in this case, that BoS advisor  misled  Miss S 
and Mr G into taking out this policy by claiming  it was a condition  of the mortgage, or that the 
policy was manifestly unsuitable  for their circumstances.
On the first point, while I dont doubt  Miss S and Mr Gs recollections, it is not always 
possible to recall precisely what was said more than 10 years ago. So I have had to take into 
account the fact that the paperwork made clear that the proposed policy  was merely a 
recommendation and that their mortgage offer was not dependent on taking out life and/or 
critical illness cover. So while the advisor  may have  misled Miss S and Mr G I dont believe 
that the evidence is sufficient, overall,  to reach such a conclusion.
If the advisor  made clear this was just a recommendation then it was up to Miss S and Mr G 
to decide whether they wanted  or needed  the cover given  their workplace protection and the 
potential support of their parents.  But neither of these factors made  the recommendation 
Ref: DRN63846032inappropriate. Workplace benefits can never  be guaranteed over the lifetime  of a 30 year 
mortgage commitment so this service  would rarely conclude that their existence made a 
recommendation for bespoke cover unsuitable.
I agree  with the investigators analysis of the commission issue  so wont  repeat what  he said.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6384603