K821x#15Complaint
Mr Z complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) blocked  and closed his account and returned the 
funds in the account to their original sources,  rather than him.
To put things right, he wants  Revolut to return his money to him.
Background
Mr Z opened an account with Revolut and used the account to buy and sell cryptocurrency.
On 16 January 2019, Revolut received notification from another bank that their customer had 
been the victim of a scam involving the purchase of bitcoins from Mr Z. Following this 
notification Revolut blocked and reviewed Mr Zs account. At the time Mr Z had a balance of 
548. 83 CHF.
After it completed its review, Revolut felt it was more than likely Mr Z was involved in 
fraudulent activity, so it returned the funds  (including  his closing balance) and a payment for 
1,140 CHF which  was paid into Mr Zs account on 9 January 2019, to their original sources, 
rather than releasing  them  to Mr Z. Following this Revolut closed Mr Zs account.  
Mr Z complained, but Revolut maintained  its position, so he brought  his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened.  And asked Mr Z for some more 
information about the activity on his account. Mr Z provided the investigator with screenshots  
showing sales of cryptocurrency, including the transaction  on 9 January  2019. Mr Z said 
because of Revoluts  actions hed lost both his cryptocurrency which hed sold to various 
traders, and the money he had expected in return for it. 
The investigator looked at the information  Mr Z had provided. He said Revolut hadnt done 
anything wrong  by closing and reviewing  Mr Zs account. But he didnt think Revolut had 
treated Mr Z fairly by returning  his funds to source.  He thought Revolut should return Mr Zs 
money to him, pay 8% simple interest on the balance, as well as £100 to compensate Mr Z 
for the trouble and upset  hed suffered. 
Revolut disagreed. So, the matter  has come to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these  obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Zs account. 
I then turn to Revoluts  decision  to close Mr Zs account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue  to provide, 
Ref: DRN62823742banking facilities to any particular customer.  Unless theres a very good  reason to do so, this 
service wont usually  say that a bank must  keep  customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Under the terms of the account Mr Z held, Revolut are entitled  to end the relationship.  I can 
see that they notified Mr Z on their decision, so I cant say Revolut have done anything 
wrong.
Access to funds
Before Revolut releases  funds  held in a customers account, its entitled to carry out checks 
to ensure its complying  with its legal and regulatory  obligations.  And it will follow its internal 
procedures before they release funds.
With that said, Revolut  hasnt provided  a satisfactory  explanation, supported by evidence,  as 
to why it returned the money in Mr Zs account  to the original  sources, rather than releasing 
it to him. I accept there  are times when its appropriate for Revolut to return  funds to their 
original sources. But in order to decide  whether or not that is the case, I would need to see 
appropriate evidence  to support such a decision.
While Revolut has explained  its rationale  to me, it hasnt been able to provide sufficient  
evidence to justify  its actions. I understand that it had concerns about the way Mr Z was 
operating his account. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the people who sent money to Mr Zs 
account had challenged the payments they made  to him or requested their money back  
before Revolut returned them. Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr Z procured  the funds 
dishonestly or that he knew  or believed that the funds paid into his account had been  
illegitimately procured  by someone else in order to pay for the cryptocurrency sales.  
Mr Z has provided  the investigator with screenshots detailing each sale he made, including 
invoices, bank transfers and communications with each individual, which  show Mr Z sold 
bitcoins. So, Im satisfied  sales  did take place. I cant  see that Revolut  spoke to Mr Z about 
the activity on his account, asked him for information about the sales or carried out a 
thorough investigation to establish whether Mr Z had behaved fraudulently regarding the 
funds it returned  to source. So, Im not persuaded Revolut had sufficient evidence to justify 
depriving Mr Z of the funds in his account.  If it did, it hasnt shared that evidence with our 
Service. Therefore, I cant see any reason for Revolut to return the money to the sources.  It 
follows that I believe Revolut should  refund Mr Z 1,688.83 CHF (the closing balance and 
1,140 CHF transaction).
Revoluts actions caused Mr Z a great deal of worry and upset. He was left without his 
money and ignored  the evidence he wanted to provide. So, along with refunding Mr Z the 
1,688.83 CHF, I also believe an additional  payment is warranted of £100 for the trouble and 
upset hes faced due to the removal of the funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Zs complaint  against  Revolut Ltd. To put things 
right Revolut Ltd must:
Refund Mr Z 1,688.83 CHF
Pay Mr Z simple  interest at the rate of 8% on the 1,688 .83 CHF from 9 April 2019 
Ref: DRN62823743(the date the review was completed) until the date of payment.
Pay an additional  £100  for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021. 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282374