K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains because Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt paid a 
contribution towards  the cost of a new boiler.  
background
Mr B holds a home emergency insurance  policy, underwritten by RSA.
In October  2015, Mr Bs boiler broke down. Mr B says the boiler was 25 years old at this
point.
RSA sent out an engineer, who said the boiler  needed a spark generator which wasnt  made
anymore. So, RSA said the boiler was beyond economic repair. RSA said if Mr B could
provide proof that his boiler  had been serviced  hed be entitled to a £500 contribution
towards the cost of a new boiler.
Mr B had his old boiler repaired  by a private engineer,  and then replaced the boiler in
October 2016.
In 2018, Mr B asked  RSA for a contribution  towards  the new boiler.  RSA said it wouldnt pay
this because Mr B couldnt demonstrate that his old boiler had been serviced in the 24
months before his claim.
Unhappy, Mr B brought a complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt recommend that RSA should do
anything more. Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion.
I sent my provisional decision about Mr Bs complaint in January 2019.  In it, I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy with RSA say;
If as a result of a claim. the tradesman  decides your boiler is beyond economic
repair,  we will pay up to £500 towards the cost of your new boiler.
But the policy also says;
What is not covered
Any failure of the main  heating  system where  it has not been properly maintained
and serviced by a registered tradesman, providing certification or other proof of
service within  the last 24 months.
Mr B says he had his old boiler serviced every  year by the same engineer, but he cant find
the service records and he lost contact  with the engineer in 2014.  RSA says Mr B was aware
in 2015 that hed need service documentation but Mr B told it hed thrown the paperwork
away. But I dont think the question of whether Mr B did or didnt  have his old boiler serviced
is whats relevant.
We dont generally  think  its fair for an insurer to turn down a claim because  a policyholder
hasnt has their boiler serviced - unless the insurer can show  its likely the lack of servicing
Ref: DRN65043262was material to the claim. So, even if Mr B didnt have his old boiler serviced, I think  RSA
would need to show its likely the boiler  wouldnt have  broken down if it had been  serviced  as
it shouldve been.  If RSA could demonstrate this, then I dont think Mr B would be entitled  to
any payment under  his policy.
RSA hasnt provided any evidence about  whether  a failure to service  the boiler led to
Mr Bs claim. However, there is another factor which I think needs  to be considered  here.
I understand Mr B says he didnt try to claim the beyond economic repair  contribution before
2018 because  he was unwell. But because of the length of time that has passed since
Mr Bs old boiler broke down  and because Mr B has had the old boiler  replaced   RSA has
lost the opportunity to investigate further. So, I dont think RSA should  have to pay Mr B the
full £500 contribution.
Instead, I think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to pay Mr B half of this amount.
So, my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Bs complaint in part.
RSA didnt accept  my provisional decision.  Mr B didnt respond.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the comments RSA has made in response to my provisional decision. I 
understand Mr B chose  to repair the boiler in October 2015  and then replaced  it a year 
later. But the boiler had already been deemed to be beyond economic repair by RSA in 2015 
as the spark generator was no longer  being made,  so I dont see how that position wouldve 
changed a year later. And I dont think the fact that Mr B was able to have the old boiler  
temporarily repaired affects his ability to claim  a beyond  economic  repair  contribution under 
the policy. Mr B has evidenced  that he did in fact replace the boiler,  at a point in time when  
he says he was financially  in a position to do so.
Mr B had the boiler replaced by a third party in 2016   but the beyond  economic repair 
contribution set out in the policy isnt dependent on the boiler being replaced  by RSA. 
I think its clear  Mr B was aware  of the policy requirements about boiler servicing.  But while  
Mr B cant  demonstrate his old boiler  was regularly serviced, RSA also cant  demonstrate 
that any failure to have  the boiler  serviced  led to the breakdown in October 2015.
I accept that Mr B has prejudiced RSAs position here  which is why I think a payment of 
half of the beyond economic repair contribution, and not payment of the full amount, is the 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN65043263my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should pay Mr B a contribution  of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6504326