K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC overcharged her when she redeemed  her 
mortgage in 2002.
background
Mrs J had an interest only mortgage  that she redeemed in 2002 when she went  to live 
abroad. In recent years she has enquired by way of SARs for information related to that 
mortgage. Mrs Js capital  balance was for £84,886.00 but the redemption quote was 
£85,773.74 which Mrs J queries. Part of the difference  was interest and part an amount for 
insurance. Mrs J doesnt believe that she was due to pay any insurance as she was already 
paying buildings insurance and had her own private  ASU policy  and questions whether  the 
interest figure is correct.   Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be 
upheld as it was unclear  whether the insurance  had been paid and that the interest  could be 
explained as the account ran in arrears.  Mrs J disagreed  and asked for a review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to the redemption of Mrs Js mortgage in 2002. It seems  that Mrs J 
kept no documentation which would assist me such as a redemption statement. The interest 
only loan was for £84,886 and the redemption figure quoted was £85,773.74. Its not clear 
that this was the figure actually paid.  Mrs J has no evidence of her own that she paid it- such  
information would be likely included on her completion statement from her solicitor.  Its 
certainly the redemption  figure quoted but oddly it appears in the Barclays  statements not 
under credits  which would  indicate that was the amount paid but under payoff  which may 
be a book entry to clear off the account.  So, the actual  amount paid to Barclays  may be 
different.
As Ive indicated above, the difficulty with this complaint is that because of the passage of 
time the significant  documents  which would assist me in seeing exactly what went  on are 
unavailable. Firstly neither  Barclays nor Mrs J can supply  the mortgage  offer which would tell 
me the terms of the mortgage  and what If any insurance Mrs J was to pay. Nor are there any 
annual mortgage  statements  which  I assume would have been sent to Mrs J each year and 
would presumably refer to the insurance  if that was the case. And as I say above, Mrs J 
cant provide me with the completion letter from her solicitor setting out what she paid to the 
lender at redemption.  
Barclays says because  of the length  of time since the account  closed that it doesnt  retain  
these documents.  Mrs J says she left to go abroad  in 2002 and any paperwork of her own 
related to the mortgage was either lost or destroyed prior to the move.
In the absence of the documentation which would assist me I have to consider what  was 
most likely to have happened here and come to a decision  on that basis.  Normally  in a 
conveyancing transaction  at or prior to completion the vendors solicitor will get a redemption 
figure from the lender and check with the client whether the client  is in agreement  with it. 
This gives the client the opportunity to reflect on what is due to the lender and whether there 
Ref: DRN66409482are any queries about it. And the solicitor would want to check that the client was satisfied  
with the figure before  handing  over Mrs Js money  to Barclays.   
In this case as Mrs J says there  was a noticeable difference  between  the original mortgage  
balance and the redemption quote,  so I believe Mrs J or her solicitor  would  likely  have 
queried that at the time and have satisfied themselves that it should be paid before it was 
paid. Mrs J says that the quote was only requested a day before completion but there were 
two other  quotes  previously in November and early  January both showing a similar gap 
between the original capital balance and the redemption quote  and both of which  would 
have put Mrs J and her solicitor on alert as to why there was a gap. 
And even  if Mrs J felt under pressure of time with the redemption  quote she was likely to 
have got a completion statement from her solicitor which  would have allowed her to 
challenge the figures at that time if she was dissatisfied with them.  Mrs  J was going abroad 
and Im sure wanted to insure that she only paid what was due to the lender. She also had a 
prior bad experience  when her late husband died and there was a shortfall on the mortgage  
protection policy. I expect  that experience would also have  led her to check the figures she 
was being given by the lender.  
As I say above I cant be sure what was actually paid. If it werent  the redemption  quote it 
may be that Mrs J or the solicitor agreed  and paid a figure below the redemption quote.   If 
the figure on the redemption quote  was paid its likely that Mrs J and her solicitor  were 
content that the figure quoted was correct. 
Without the mortgage offer which would  assist me in telling me what  the insurance payment 
was for I cant say that the redemption quote  was right or wrong. Certainly part of the quote 
appears to be extra  interest which can be explained  because of the way Mrs Js mortgage 
operated. Again I cant be sure if the full amount of the extra interest was paid as I cant say 
definitively that the amount stated in the redemption quote was paid. 
But my view is that if the redemption quote  was incorrect that it was likely that it would  have 
been queried at the time and that Mrs J or her solicitor would have satisfied themselves that 
it should be paid before it was paid. So on that basis I believe that the amount Mrs J paid 
was likely to be correct  and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Gerard McManus
Ref: DRN66409483ombudsman
Ref: DRN6640948