K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained to Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) about its 
response to a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs N entered into an agreement for a solar  panel system costing around 
£7,400 with a supplier  called My Planet.  In order to fund the purchase of the system Mr and 
Mrs N took out a loan with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs N made  a claim against  Shawbrook under s.75.  They  said My Planet told them 
that the solar  panel system  would be self-funding  and pay for itself in 10 years  which  was 
the term of the loan.   They understood  the loan payments would be met by the savings from 
using electricity generated by their solar  panel  system rather  than from their energy provider.
The claims management company (CMC) representing Mr and Mrs N say that the system 
was not self-funding and it wouldnt have paid for itself within the term of the loan.  It stated 
the system would take 18 years to generate the savings needed to cover the cost of the 
system and loan.
Shawbrook accepted the benefits of the solar panel systems had been mis-represented and 
made an offer to resolve the claim.   It re-calculated the loan based upon what  energy 
savings would have  been required to make  the loan self-funding over its 10 year term, and 
taking account  of what Mr and Mrs N have paid to date.  Having done so, it recognised  that 
the loan would have been paid-off  and the account  in credit.  
So the offer Shawbrook made was to write-off the actual outstanding loan balance and pay 
£2,262.43 to Mr and Mrs N (reflecting the amount the account wouldve been  in credit).  It 
also offered to pay £200 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative referred  the complaint  to our Service  as they were unhappy 
with Shawbrooks offer.  The CMC  asked that Shawbrook pay for the solar  panels  to be 
uninstalled and for any costs  associated with them refunded with interest.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint.   She noted both parties had instructed 
independent experts to inspect and report upon  the solar panel  system, but concluded  the 
findings of Shawbrooks expert  to be more credible.  
The investigator accepted there were several minor  issues with how the system  was 
installed, but considered to put those things right now would cause further unnecessary  
disruption to Mr and Mrs N.  She  said that Shawbrook should cover  the cost of any repairs 
that may arise in the future that are directly related to the issues.   Otherwise she said the 
offer made by Shawbrook was fair.
Shawbrook accepted the assessment, but Mr and Mrs N did not.  
The CMC responded  on behalf of Mr and Mrs N.  In summary it said they disputed  some of 
the conclusions  reached in the report from the expert instructed  by Shawbrook.  But they 
also want a full and final resolution to matters  and dont want to have to raise further 
complaints if repairs are required in the future.
Ref: DRN67698662As no agreement could be reached  the CMC requested that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr and Mrs N say that they were told the solar panel system would be self-financing by the 
supplier when they signed up for its installation.  Shawbrook has accepted  that a mis-
representation was made, and so the decision  for me to make, is whether the offer of 
compensation it has made is fair and reasonable.
The typical  approach taken by our Service  in complaints where theres been a mis-
representation or mis-sale is to put the parties back into as close  a position  as possible as if 
the transaction had never taken place.  But Im required to decide  what  I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of an individual  complaint.  In  this case, I dont think  it 
would be proportionate to ask Shawbrook  to pay for the removal  of the solar panels  and to 
unwind the loan agreement.
The heart of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is that the system  was mis-represented because  they 
believed it would pay for itself within the 10-year term of the loan taken  to fund the purchase.   
So I consider the offer made by Shawbrook to recalculate and adjust the loan account  to 
reflect the position as if the system  had performed  as represented is fair and reasonable.  
This means  the system  would have been paid for by the energy savings over the 10-year 
term.
As Mr and Mrs N have  actually paid more for energy and to service the loan combined than 
they ought to have  according to Shawbrooks calculation, it has offered to pay the lump sum 
of £2,626.43.  Overall,  I consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, as the 
loan (and so the solar panels) will have been paid for as Mr and Mrs N expected  within the 
10-year term.  They  will continue to get the benefit  of energy savings moving forwards.
So the further issue for me to decide  is in relation to the installation  faults  that were 
considered by the independent experts instructed by the parties.  It is noted that there are 
issues which would require remedial work to put right, but the impact of those issues is 
disputed.
Ive reviewed the reports produced by both independent experts, and overall  Im more 
persuaded by the findings of the expert instructed by Shawbrook.  He is widely accepted as 
being credible,  and the report provided  by the CMC  appointed expert contained  
inaccuracies.  
So Im minded to accept  the non-conformities of the installation  are minor in their impact,  
and so it wouldnt be necessary or proportionate to remove the solar panels as a result.  The  
likely impact of doing  so would be greater than the likely benefit of carrying  out remedial 
works.
Whilst I understand and appreciate why Mr and Mrs N would like finality to their complaint, I 
consider the offer made by Shawbrook provides this based  upon the issues  currently  
affecting them.  Should the minor  installation issues detailed in the experts report  directly 
cause damage in the future, then Shawbrook should  remedy  it at that time.  But as there is 
Ref: DRN67698663currently no evidence of any such damage, I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to make any award  in relation to that now.
I have also considered the amount  of compensation Mr and Mrs N should  be paid for the 
trouble and upset  they have experienced.  Shawbrook has offered £200  and Im satisfied this 
is an appropriate sum given their circumstances.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs N are likely to be disappointed with some  of my 
conclusions, I consider the offer already made by Shawbrook to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  But I must re-iterate that Ive considered everything impartially in 
reaching my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited, 
but am satisfied the offer of redress it has already made is fair and reasonable.  I leave it to 
Mr and Mrs N to decide whether or not they wish to accept that offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 January 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6769866