K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in February  2005  at the same time as taking  out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy was part of a packaged protection plan called Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP). The TMPP could have included a critical illness and a life insurance policy as well 
as the PPI. Mr and Mrs B didnt take the critical illness or life insurance policy so in this 
decision Ive only considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the PPI policy. 
The policy provided  cover  joint cover for Mr and Mrs B for accident, sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. The benefit was split equally 
between Mr and Mrs B and if either  of them were to make a successful claim it would have 
offered to repay  £643.62 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. At the time, it cost 
£76.46 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a museum  assistant.  He has told us he was entitled  to 
employee sick pay of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. Mr B has said he 
had savings he could  have relied upon to make the mortgage repayments in the event he 
wasnt working. Mr B would also receive redundancy pay if he lost his job as well as death  in 
service benefit. Mr B told us of a medical  condition he suffered from in 2002 for which  he had 
taken two weeks off from work.   
Mrs B was employed as a midwife. She would also receive six months full pay followed by 
six months half pay if she was too unwell to work.  She also had savings she could have 
relied upon. Mrs B would receive redundancy pay if she lost her job as well as being  entitled 
to death in service  benefit. Mrs B was pregnant at the time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2005 and its still 
running.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                    
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN68969142The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in February 2005  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So, the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Ref: DRN68969143Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN68969144Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent                  
Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs B say it was included 
as part of mortgage package. 
BoS hasnt got copies  of all of Mr and Mrs Bs paperwork from the time of the sale.  But I 
dont find this surprising  because of the length  of time since the sale and businesses arent 
required to keep paperwork  indefinitely. But Ive seen  a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
offer document  keyfacts about  this mortgage  which gives details of the mortgage  being 
offered. I note there  is a separate section entitled  Insurance followed by several boxes, one 
of which  is entitled  Optional Insurance  which includes the TMPP and its cost. 
Ive also seen a copy of the letter sent to Mr and Mrs B after the sales meeting with the BoS 
adviser which thanks  them for choosing to take out the policy.  This also records their 
responses to questions about  their demands and needs, confirms the TMPP cover and its 
cost and which I think makes it clear the policy being  recommended was optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mr and Mrs B havent given us their recollections  about whether advice was given. BoS has 
told us it did give advice  during the meeting. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN68969145While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs B. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs B had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues  and 
existing means  I dont  think  it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this 
because the questions BoS recorded  as having been answered  by Mr and Mrs B on the 
statement dont fully cover  all of the various  limitations and exclusions in the policy which  
might have affected their ability to make a successful claim on it. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So, 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if     
Mr or Mrs B were not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
sick pay and redundancy benefits  they say they would have been  entitled to and their 
savings.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding the pre-existing medical condition  
Mr B has told us about in 2002, for which he had taken two weeks  off from work, it 
looks like this was treated at the time and Mr B didnt tell us of any subsequent need 
for any time off work. So, I dont think this condition would have stopped him from 
deciding to take the cover.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr or Mrs B be disabled  or unemployed 
for 30 days before they could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments  
relating to their home and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN68969146Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs B were unable  to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment).  I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the exclusions or limitations before                 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B, Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs B all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did         
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude            
Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
Ref: DRN68969147While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were  given about  the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefit, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs B would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related condition  and/or associated  symptoms, whether diagnosed or not, about 
which Mr or Mrs B knew about or should  reasonably have known at the start date or 
had seen or arranged to have  seen a doctor during  the 12 months before the start 
date. If a claim was made for a pre-existing condition the claim could be given further 
consideration if Mr or Mrs B had been  symptom free and had not consulted  a doctor 
or received treatment  for the condition within 24 months before the claim; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Ref: DRN68969148The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if             
Mr and Mrs B werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Mr and Mrs B were in permanent 
employment and although Mr B told us he had a medical condition  before the policy was 
taken out  the policy might not have  provided  cover had Mr B needed to take time off work 
because of that condition, I dont think better information about  this exclusion have put them  
off agreeing to take it. 
I say this because  while Mr B had to take some time off from work  because  of the condition 
several years before the policy was taken,  he hasnt told us of any further absence from 
work as a result of the condition.  So, I dont  think the condition  would have been upper most 
in their minds when they took the policy to the extent  that it would have likely changed their 
mind about  taking it out had things been  made  any clearer. 
Mrs W has told us she was pregnant at the time of the sale,  and I can see the policy  
excluded claims relating to normal pregnancy. But I dont think this is particularly unusual  for 
insurance policies  as they are there  to insure  against the unexpected, so again, I dont think  
better information about this would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking the policy.  
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than                  
Mr and Mrs B might  reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs B unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN68969149BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs B would have received full sick pay for, 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also likely to be significantly  less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Bs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs B were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position               
Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN689691410represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2005  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6896914