K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired under a fixed sum loan agreement  with Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. He has paid for repairs to be undertaken and 
wants the cost of these  refunded.
background
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Capital in February 2018. In June 
he contacted Hitachi Capital saying he wanted to reject the car due to the following reasons:
the car was modified at the time of purchase;
there were numerous faults with the car which he had to pay to be repaired;
the car had a major  fault that meant it had to be towed to the garage.
Mr S subsequently paid for repairs and says he no longer wished to reject  the car, but 
instead wanted the cost of repairs refunded.
Hitachi Capital did not uphold Mr S' complaint. It provided information  from the broker which  
said the car had not been modified at the point of sale and that Mr S brought  three friends 
with him, including a mechanic, to test drive the car before  he agreed to take it.
It said Mr S broke the car's sump shortly after acquisition, losing all the oil in the car, and 
that if the car continued to run this would cause the engine to seize. It said the tyres and 
lights were legal at the point  of supply and that the spark plugs were replaced before 
delivery. It further said that as repairs were carried out by Mr S' own choice of garage,  and 
not under  warranty,  it was not responsible for this work.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that as the car's issues arose only two to 
three months after acquisition the onus was on Hitachi  Capital to show they were not present 
or developing at the point of supply. He noted that Mr S had an inspection carried out on the 
car which raised a number of issues, and Hitachi Capital's concerns with this. However, he 
said that given  the low mileage covered by Mr S he thought, on balance, the faults were 
present or developing at the point  of supply. He also felt the information  provided suggested 
the car had undergone modification before Mr S acquired it.
Our investigator said that as rejection of the car was not accepted, and Mr S had paid for 
repairs, it was reasonable that he recovered  these costs. He recommended  that costs  
totalling £4,073.11 be refunded to Mr S.
Hitachi Capital did not accept our investigator's view. It made the following comments:
Mr S first contacted  it in May 2018 about  issues with the light bulbs and tyres and the 
car had a MOT in February 2018  with no issues raised;
Mr S had full warranty cover, and that the injectors would have been covered, but as 
the suspension on the car had been lowered the warranty company would not load 
the car onto its' vehicle;
Mr S was aware that the suspension system  could be adjusted,  as this was 
discussed at the point  of sale. And the MOT garage confirmed  the car was at the 
Ref: DRN60468182right height  before sale;
Mr S had admitted  to damaging the sump and driving with no oil. And that this 
caused the engine failure; and that the spark plugs  were replaced before the car was 
supplied.
Hitachi Capital's  position was that the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply. So it 
shouldn't be held responsible for any of Mr S's costs.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
that I understood why Mr S was upset that he paid for a number of repairs shortly 
after acquisition, but noted that the car passed an MOT  on 27 February, on which the 
only advisory related  to the front brake disc being  worn.  I found it reasonable to 
accept that the tyres and lights were legal  at the point of supply;
the coil spring was noted as a reason for the MOT failure  on 26 February and I 
understood that repairs were undertaken in order for the car to pass the MOT the 
following day. The pre-delivery information  did not raise any concerns and I noted 
that there was a comment that the spark plugs were replaced  before the car was 
supplied;
that Mr S was told that issues with the injectors  could be repaired under warranty but 
he did not go ahead with this and instead  had repairs carried out by a third party. 
Because of this I said I couldnt say that Hitachi Capital was responsible  for any 
issues resulting from these repairs.
Overall, I did not find that I had enough  to say that the issues  with the lights; tyres; coil packs  
and spark plugs and injectors  were due to faults that were present at the point of supply.
Mr S raised further issues and provided the following conclusions:
that I did not have  enough evidence to say that the suspension was set too low at the 
point of supply.  I noted  that the pre-delivery  inspection document,  dated 26 February, 
said that the car was fitted with adjustable  suspension set to a safe height. The car 
then passed an MOT  on 27 February and this did not raise any concerns about  the 
height of the car (nor did the failed MOT on the previous day);
Mr S brought friends with him to the test drive, one of which  it was said was the 
mechanic who provided the report for Mr S about  issues  with the car. In this report  he 
noted the height of the suspension and said it was dangerous. Had the suspension 
been too low at acquisition I would have  expected this to have been noticed by Mr S, 
or this same  friend,  at the time;
conflicting evidence  was provided  as to why the engine  failed.  Mr S admitted that he 
damaged the sump  shortly after acquisition but said he then didnt drive the car until 
the repair was completed: Hitachi Capital said that the loss of oil and further driving 
of the car could  have caused  the damage  to the engine. It also said post-replacement 
the sump  was leaking;
Ref: DRN60468183given all of the various  intervening factors:- the accident with the car; the suggestion 
of leaks in the repaired sump; and the third party repairs that had occurred; I was 
unable to safely say the issue with the car's engine was due to a fault that was 
present or developing at the point  of supply;
I understood Mr S has been disappointed that he had to pay for repairs to the car. But, on 
balance, I was unable  to say that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
And therefore did not uphold this complaint.
Mr S did not accept my provisional decision and added Ms H as his representative. He and 
Ms H responded to my decision saying that:
Mr S did not have a mechanic with him when he test drove  the car and instead  just 
had two friends and a family member.  He said he only became friends  with the 
mechanic after he acquired the car;
the suspension was not at a safe height  at the time of supply and had it been the 
correct height  the sump  wouldnt have been damaged that day going over a bump  in 
a car park. He also said that he wasnt aware that the suspension was adjustable;
after the sump was damaged he switched the engine off and the car wasnt  driven 
until after the sump  had been  repaired.  He said the oil that spilled out of the car was 
black and the car clearly  hadnt been serviced. He said that there  were  no further 
leaks from the sump after repair;
two tyres were below  the legal limit at the point  of supply  and that drop links were 
dangerously loose and he provided  an invoice referring to this;
they questioned the integrity of the MOT saying that the garage  that completed  the 
MOT works closely with the dealer. They didnt think the MOT should be relied  on so 
heavily in the decision;
in May 2018 the car started to misfire from two cylinders. Spark  plugs were  replaced 
but this did not resolve the issue and the car went into limp mode. Mr S called the 
warranty company but was told that it would need to take the engine apart and he 
didnt want this to happen as it came  with a cost;
in June 2018, Mr S was told the car needed to be returned to the dealer so repairs  
would be considered. He paid for the car to be towed to the dealer he purchased  the 
car from and then to another dealership, but then nothing happened  for a month. And 
then he was told the car would not be repaired so he had to pay for IT to be towed to 
his local garage;
as Mr S needed the car he paid for the repairs in August 2018 and now wants these 
to be refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
Ref: DRN60468184- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to acquire a car. Under the regulations,  
Hitachi Capital is liable  if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account  factors such as the cars  age and mileage. At 
acquisition, the car was around six and a half years old and had been  driven  over 63,000  
miles.
Mr S has raised a number  of concerns with the car which he says show  it was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I considered  all of the points raised  as part of my 
provisional decision. Mr S raised a number of points in response to my provisional  decision. I 
have addressed these below.
I note Mr S comment  that he did not have a mechanic with him when  he test drove the car. 
As I was not there I cannot say who was present but I accept Mr S statement that he went  
with friends and a family member not a mechanic.
Mr S said that he was not aware the suspension was adjustable. As part of the investigation 
he had also provided  a report on the car. This said the suspension was converted badly  and 
the ground clearance significantly reduced. It went on to say the car was dangerous and 
illegal.
I have reconsidered  the issue regarding the suspension. However I still do not find that I 
have enough to say that the suspension  was set at a level that meant that the car was either 
not of satisfactory  quality  or not fit for purpose at the point of supply. I say this because 
although Mr S says he was not aware  the suspension was adjustable, the pre-delivery note 
clearly states this. It then says that the suspension is set to a safe standard.  Also the 
suspension was not raised  as an issue in the MOTs carried out in 26 and 27 February 2018. 
The garage that carried out the MOT has also confirmed that there  was sufficient ground 
clearance between  the car and the floor. 
While I note the comments  made about alleged bias of the MOT, I do think it is reasonable to 
rely on this along  with the other information  provided  in making my decision.
Mr S has noted that he had to replace two tyres. I can understand why he was upset that 
these were needed a couple of months  after acquisition  but tyres  are a wear  and tear item 
and on a used  car it is not unusual for these to be worn. The condition of the tyres would 
have been visible at the point of delivery and the tyres were not raised  as an issue in the 
MOT. Based on this I accept that the tyres  were  legal  at the time of acquisition.
When the tyres were  replaced the invoice also notes that the drop links were  dangerously 
loose. It says that they had rattled  loose  due to improper installation  and that the ball joints  
were damaged and suggested these were replaced. Again as this was not noted in the MOT 
or pre-delivery checks. I understand damage can be caused by issues  such as speed bumps 
and so the accident in which  the sump  was damaged could be a factor. 
So, while I do not dispute this was an issue, I cannot  safely  say there was a fault at the point 
of supply. And I do not find that I can uphold this part of the complaint.
I understand Mr S concerns in regard to the information he received from the warranty 
company about  the engine needing  to be taken apart. However  as this option was available 
Ref: DRN60468185to him and he decided to get the repairs done elsewhere, I cannot say any issues arising 
from these repairs is the responsibility of Hitachi  Capital. Also as repairs have now been 
carried out I cannot say whether the issues were due to faults that were  present or 
developing at the point of supply.
The final issue relates to the engine failure.  There has been conflicting evidence provided  as 
to why this happened.  Mr S has admitted that he damaged the sump shortly after 
acquisition. He says that he then did not drive the car and instead arranged for the repair 
with a third party for which the receipt has been  provided. Hitachi Capital has said that if a 
car runs out of oil, as was the case when the sump was damaged, the engine can seize.  It 
has also said that further damage could have been  caused when  the sump  was damaged.
Given the accident with the car and the third party repairs that had occurred; I find that I am 
unable to safely say the issue with the cars engine was due to a fault that was present  or 
developing at the point of supply.
I understand that this will be a disappointment to Mr S, but for all of these reasons I am 
unable to uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. And I do not intend to ask Hitachi  
Capital (UK) Plc to take any further  steps to resolve matters.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046818