K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the settlement offered to him by Zurich Insurance  PLC in respect of his 
home insurance claims for flood/water damage.
background
The claim goes back to 2007/2008. Mr Ks late mother  owned the property and made a claim 
in 2007 for flood damage to her basement and in 2008 for an escape  of water in the kitchen. 
Work was started on repairs to the basement bur ended up being suspended after Mr Ks 
mother passed away in 2008 and following a dispute  with Mr K about the standard  of the 
work. There were lengthy delays in getting probate and the claim was shut down for a 
number of years. In 2016 Mr K made  a complaint to this service. As a result of that an 
adjudicator issued a view,  on 11 May 2016,  which both parties accepted.  He recommended, 
in full and final settlement  of that complaint, that Zurich  should:
Deal with both the 2007 flood  claim and the 2008 escape of water claim in full, subject to 
validation of the costs required to put affected  areas back  to the condition they were in 
prior to the claims being raised.
If a cash settlement is considered between Zurich and Mr K, then this should  be 
calculated on the current costs of the works  and not 2007  or 2008 rates respectively.
[Deduct] any payments already issued to Mr K, in respect of these claims, from the 
settlement figures.
Pay Mr K £500, in recognition of the upset and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
this matter.
Zurich paid the £500 compensation. After that it spent some  time trying to arrange  a revisit 
which it wasnt able to do until October 2017.  Mr K then sent in some quotes  for the kitchen  
and a revised quote in November 2017. Zurich  spent some time in considering those  quotes.  
In February 2018  it offered £2,500 for the basement works. Mr K said that it didnt include  
the repairs necessary  to comply with building regulations,  such as pipe lagging  and wall and 
ceiling insulation, and ventilation. Zurich argued that those items werent there  before  but 
after viewing photos of the basement, it agreed  in April 2018 to increase its offer to 
£2678.95. Mr K disagreed saying he had quotes for closer to £5,000 for the work.
Zurich has previously made a payment (before our view in May 2016) of £5500  for the 
kitchen. It has increased its proposed cash settlement for the kitchen by a further 
£10,887.50. Mr K has a quote of in excess of £29,000. He has also supplied  a quote for 
plumbing (removal and reinstallation of a boiler) and Zurich  has made an allowance  for 
electrical work. Zurich  has offered to cash settle  those items  but only on the basis  of what its 
contractors would charge.
Mr K has also made a claim for some kitchen appliances and replacement of blinds. Zurich 
doesnt believe those  items were  damaged  by the escape of water but would be prepared to 
consider them if Mr K can produce evidence of the same.
Zurich agreed that it had delayed in responding to Mr Ks quotes. It paid him a further £200 
compensation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the offers in respect of the basement and 
kitchen were reasonable and that it was reasonable to expect  Mr K to provide more evidence 
in respect of the alleged damage to the appliances  and the blinds. So far as the plumbing 
Ref: DRN69712852and electrical work is concerned she said that Zurich should pay the cost of those based on 
what it would  cost Mr K to have the work  carried  out. She further  said that Zurich should pay 
interest at 8% on any cash settlement from November 2017 until it paid Mr K. She thought 
the £200 compensation was reasonable.
Zurich objected to payment  of interest   it pointed out that Mr K hadnt  actually  paid out for 
the repairs quoted for. It had paid £200 compensation which it said reflected its delays. It 
pointed out that Mr K was responsible for the long delay up until November 2017.
Mr K said hed only been paid £5,000, not £5,500. He wanted  more evidence from Zurich  
about its assessment  of the kitchen repairs. He was prepared to supply further evidence 
about the fridge/freezer and required Zurich also to replace the microwave and cooker hood. 
He said he also needed alternative accommodation  during the repairs.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
Following Mr Ks previous  complaint to this service a resolution  was reached which was 
accepted by both him and Zurich. This means that I wont  be considering matters which  were  
resolved at that time,  except to take into account the background. So this decision concerns 
matters that still needed  to be dealt  with after that resolution.
basement
Zurich offered £2,500 for the work in the basement.  Mr K said extra work needed to be 
carried out to comply with building regulations like insulation, pipe lagging and ventilation.  
Initially Zurich said none of those items were there in the first place but then offered a further 
£178.95 as a goodwill gesture after seeing photos  that showed some  lagging of the pipes.. 
I havent been shown any persuasive evidence that, apart from any of those items that were 
already there, it was necessary  to install them. Mr K has a quote  for more than £5,000 but 
this relates not only to work in the basement but also to other private  work.  So, taking those 
factors into account I think Zurichs offer was reasonable.
kitchen
The big problem with assessing the kitchen is that there is very little evidence  to show what 
was there  before and what items were affected  by water damage.  Mr K says the kitchen was 
removed by the contractors in 2008.  They left the job then after a dispute  over the standard 
of work. The contractor company has long since ceased to exist. And records were  
destroyed after three years.  And it took nearly  5 years for Mr K to obtain  probate of his late 
mothers estate. 
Before the 2016 complaint to us, Zurich paid £5,500 Mr K says this includes the 
compensation figure recommended  by our adjudicator. However  I understand that this sum 
was paid before the adjudicator considered  the complaint. 
Ref: DRN69712853Following the 2016  resolution accepted by both sides, Mr K obtained quotes for the kitchen 
units and appliances  of just over £29,000. As the loss adjusters hadnt  seen the kitchen that 
was taken out they estimated the costs based on what parts of the old kitchen remained,  
which came  to a further £10,887.50 including fitting. I further note that Mr K was reluctant to 
give the loss adjusters  any time to assess the claim when they did visit the property. And he 
hasn't agreed  to any further visits. Unless Mr K is able to supply any more evidence  of the 
kitchen as it was before,  I think Zurichs  offer is reasonable.
Zurichs offer didnt include appliances.  Mr K has obtained  a quote for a replacement fridge 
freezer for £5,000.  But Zurich doesnt  believe that the appliance was affected by the water 
damage. And in any event it appears to me that the cost for that style of fridge isnt likely to 
be anywhere near £5,000. But I dont think Zurich has acted unreasonably here  its now 
more than ten years since the claim and whilst I note Mr Ks assertion that the doors dont  
close properly, these  sort of items have a finite life. If Mr K is able to provide more  evidence 
to Zurich that the item was damaged either by the escape of water or by the contractors then 
Zurich would be willing to consider it.
Mr K also wants  payment for the cooker  hood and splashback. Its not unreasonable  to 
believe that these  were taken down for the original strip out, but not obvious they damaged 
by either  the water  of in being removed. As for the microwave its difficult to see why this 
should have been damaged. And again it would have a finite  life. Nevertheless if Mr K still 
has these items or evidence of them, he should present them  to Zurich and it can reconsider 
them.
Similarly with the blinds, Mr K says they were  damaged and has bought new ones. 
Unfortunately its not so far been possible for Zurich  to assess these.  Mr K says the old ones 
were damaged either in the original  claim (which seems unlikely to me) or when they were  
taken down/removed   Mr K will need  to be is able to show Zurich  evidence of the state of the 
blinds previously. At this stage I think its reasonable for Zurich not to consider payment for 
them.
plumbing and electrical  work
Mr K has said that the repairs will require removal and reinstallation of the boiler.  Zurich  
agrees that these  costs, along  with electrical  work, can be paid, but doesnt  accept  Mr Ks 
estimate for it. Zurich  has said it would  have been  happy to instruct its own contractors to do 
the work,  but because they walked  off the job due to Mr Ks conduct  towards  them, it can 
only cash settle. And Mr K also wants now to instruct his own contractors.  
I think given the time since contractors  last worked at the property, and given the lack of 
confirmation surrounding that work, I would expect Zurich to have offered its own contractors 
again (who clearly would  have  been different). I agree with the investigator's view that as a 
cash settlement now is to be paid that Zurich should calculate  that according to the quotes 
Mr K obtains, which can include materials.. This is subject to it being able to assess those 
quotes against the usual  charging rates for private contractors.
alternative accommodation
Zurich says its prepared  to consider this and Mr K will need  to discuss  this with its claims 
team. Once the payments are settled and there  is a clear  timetable for repairs, I think  it 
would be reasonable for Zurich to consider whats needed at that stage. Zurich has 
Ref: DRN69712854conformed that if Mr K is unhappy with its decision then he would have the right to raise a 
new complaint.
compensation
Ive only considered this from the date of our view in May 2016. I dont think that Zurich  was 
at fault in not immediately  dealing with the claim.  It was up to Mr K to obtain  the necessary 
quotes. And he didnt  allow the loss adjusters to visit for some time. As a result the quotes 
werent received  by Zurich until 17 November 2017.  It agreed that it was slow in considering  
those quotes and didnt make an offer for the basement  until February 2018. It further didnt 
progress the kitchen claim until April 2018.  The parties couldnt agree so Mr K complained to 
this service in June 2018. 
As far as compensation is concerned  I think for the delays  in Zurich considering Mr  Ks 
quotes its payment  of  £200 compensation is fair.
interest 
Zurich objects to paying  interest  on any settlement. It says that it assessed the matter in 
May 2018 and as it accepted responsibility  for its delay  it paid £200. This was more  than any 
interest payment  would have been and it believes  in accordance with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Dispute (DISP) Handling  Rules.
Interest is not compensation  and that much is clear from the DISP Rules. Interest  is 
specifically excluded in considering the maximum money award  we can make  and can be 
applied outside  of that figure. Whereas as compensation  is subject  to the limit. Also, 
although the DISP Rules provide for an award of interest to be made, they dont set out in 
what circumstances interest is or will be awarded.
Our practice  is often  to award interest  where a consumer  has paid out money,  for the period 
they are deprived  of funds. But we also on occasion award  interest in circumstances  where 
the consumer  has been deprived  of money  to carry out repairs.  As our previous resolution 
said the award is made on todays rates rather than those that applied in 2008.  So any 
interest payment  will take account of that. Further Zurich  has known from May 2016 that it 
potentially have a further liability to Mr K for the repairs  and that it would be paying a cash  
settlement. I accept that up until November 2017, it didnt have any figures to work with. But 
once it was aware of how much Mr K was claiming, it could have paid Mr K an interim 
payment for the sums it didnt dispute.  So far as Im aware it hasnt done so.
So I think it is fair to make  Zurich pay interest  from November 2017,  when Mr K provided  the 
quotes to it, on the cash settlement outstanding for the kitchen and basement, including any 
sums it assesses for the plumbing and electrical work. I wont apply  it to any future sums it 
may pay as a result of further evidence about  the appliances or blinds, since  it reasonably  
doesnt at this stage have  any liability for them. I also wont apply  it to any alternative  
accommodation costs,  as that liability  hasnt  yet been determined.
Ref: DRN69712855my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Zurich Insurance PLC to
pay for the further electrical and boiler  fitting work in line with Mr Ks contractors  
reasonable private rates  for doing  it
pay interest* at the rate of 8% per year on any cash settlement outstanding for the 
basement, kitchen  and the above electrical and boiler fitting  work, from November 17 
2017 until it pays Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Zurich Insurance  PLC is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct  tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr K request it, Zurich should  provide  him with a certificate showing 
how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN6971285