K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains Everyday  Lending Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says he was 
approved for two loans which were unaffordable to him. He says he has lot out financially 
because he has had to pay additional interest  and charges. 
background
Mr G was approved for two loans with Everyday Lending. They are summarised below:
Loan 
NumberDate Taken Amount Term Monthly  
repaymentInterest
One February 
2016£1,600 24 months £124.45 71.9%
Two March 2017 £2,200 30 months £190.74 91.9%
Mr G says at the time of applying for both loans he was experiencing financial difficulties. He 
says he took loan one out as a way to consolidate  some of his existing debts. Mr G says had 
Everyday Lending  completed proper checks it wouldve  seen he was unable  to meet  the 
repayments, and that the loans were unaffordable. For loan two Mr G says he wanted to 
borrow further money and consolidate  loan one. 
Since taking  out loan two, Mr G has made  Everyday Lending aware that he suffers  from a 
mental health condition He says he made  Everyday  Lending aware of his condition   ADHD 
 in September 2017. Mr G says Everyday Lending has not treated him with forbearance 
since he made it aware of his circumstances. 
Everyday Lending  says it lent to Mr G responsibly. It says it completed proportionate checks  
before approving him for the loans.  It also says it acted reasonably when Mr G made  it 
aware of his circumstances. It says it has reduced  his payments from £190.74 to 
approximately £98 a month. This has had a knock-on  effect; meaning Mr Gs loan term for 
loan two has increased to 55 months.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He felt 
Everyday Lending  shouldve completed  further checks before approving  Mr G for both loans. 
He argued that had it done this it wouldve seen Mr G was managing  his finances within a 
very tight budget and therefore  wasnt in a position to meet  his monthly  payments in a 
sustainable manner.  Our adjudicator did agree that Everyday Lending  had acted fairly once 
Mr G made  it aware of his medical  condition. 
Everyday Lending  disagreed with the outcome our adjudicator  reached  in relation to its 
decision to lend. It says Mr G was using both loans to consolidate  existing credit  
commitments and as such wouldve had more disposable income - meaning the loans were 
affordable. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has been passed to me to issue  a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN65906972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider  to be good  industry  practice on our 
website. And Ive used  this approach  to help me decide  Mr Gs complaint. Bearing in mind 
the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching questions  that I need  to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine  Mr Gs complaint. These are:
1.Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr G, each  
time it lent, to satisfy  itself that he was in a position  repay  the loans in a sustainable 
way? 
a.If so, did it make  a fair decision  to lend?  
b.If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr G would have been able to do 
so?
2.Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ill deal with each  question in turn.
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr G, each  time it 
lent, to satisfy itself that he was in a position  repay the loans in a sustainable  way? 
Everyday Lending  needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Mr G. The relevant rules  dont set out which  
specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate.  But relevant 
checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and 
their outgoing expenses.  These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. The checks also need to be borrower  focused.
In relation to repaying the loan in a sustainable  way, the industry rules and guidance define 
this as being able to repay without undue difficulties.  And in particular the borrower should 
be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; and 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
There was also an obligation  on Everyday Lending to carefully consider all of the information  
it is presented before  deciding to lend, and for it to make a fair decision. One of the things 
which Everyday Lending needed to consider included the overall  level of debt a borrower 
was already in and what effect any further credit would have on their future circumstances. 
Having carefully considered all of the information provided, Im not satisfied  that either loan 
had reasonable and proportionate checks conducted on them,  and this led to an unfair 
decision to lend. Ill deal with each in turn.
Ref: DRN65906973Loan one
Loan one was taken out in February 2016,  had a capital  amount of £1,600 and was to be 
repaid over 24 monthly payments  of £124.45. At the time of the application for loan one Mr G 
says he was in financial hardship and had a number of existing credit  commitments which  he 
was attempting  to consolidate with this loan. 
Everyday Lending  says it completed  reasonable and proportionate checks. In this instance, it 
says it checked  Mr Gs income, asked for key expenditure, and completed a credit search. In 
terms of the expenditure, Everyday Lending  noted Mr Gs rental  commitment  and applied a 
35% figure on his income to cover  his other  main  living expenses.  It says it also took the 
details of Mr Gs existing  credit commitments  into account for the purposes of consolidation. 
It says after doing  all of this it demonstrated the loan was affordable  to Mr G, and therefore  
its decision to lend was fair. 
Ive carefully considered  what Everyday Lending has said about the proportionality of these 
checks, but ultimately, I disagree they were sufficient in this instance. In particular I dont  
think it was reasonable  and proportionate to simply  assume that 35% Mr Gs income would 
cover his living expenses  bearing in mind  what his credit file showed and the fact that 
Everyday Lending  was aware that Mr G had a dependent.
As Ive mentioned  above it is not just enough  for Everyday Lending to complete the checks, 
it needs to carefully  consider the information  it is provided before it decides to lend. Outside 
of asking of income  and key expenditure, Everyday Lending did complete a credit  search  on 
Mr G, and I think information  from this search  shouldve prompted Everyday Lending to 
complete further  checks.
Weve not been provided  with a copy of Mr Gs credit file from the time of the loan,  but he 
has provided a current  copy which shows the historic financial information.  I think  this 
wouldve therefore shown  similar results from the relevant time. Looking  at the commitments 
which had Mr G had at the time of the loan,  his credit file shows  that he has a number of 
existing credit commitments, which is consistent  with him wanting to consolidate some of 
these with the first loan.  It also shows that he had a number of other short-term  loans  
(payday loans)  on the months  preceding  the application which  had been  settled.  
He also had had a default on a credit card registered in a couple of years  prior to the 
application and had entered into arrangement to pay on other  commitments  in the past.  
Whilst this doesnt  mean  that Mr G shouldnt be lent money, I think  it does suggest someone  
who had had prior difficulty credit and was potentially experiencing difficulty managing his 
finances. After all Mr G was also saying  he was trying to consolidate some of his debts  too. 
I think this means that in this instance  it wasnt proportionate for Everyday Lending to rely on 
a 35% deduction  to decide his expenditure. I think it ought to have conducted further  checks, 
such as getting  a better understanding  of Mr Gs outgoings. It couldve done  this by 
requesting copies of Mr Gs bank statements from the time. As Everyday Lending didnt take 
any steps to verify Mr Gs actual living costs,  I find that its checks before providing loan one 
werent reasonable and proportionate bearing in mind the circumstances.
Ref: DRN65906974Loan two
Loan two was taken out in March 2017  and was for a total capital amount of £2,200.  It was 
used to settle the outstanding balance of loan one and had 30 monthly  payments  of £190.74 
(an increase  of £65 approximately from loan one). The interest for this loan was 91.9%. 
Mr G says he was still experiencing financial difficulties at the time loan two was applied for. 
He says he had continued to take out a number of short-term loans to help sustain his 
outgoings. He says he wanted  to take out a further loan to help with his cashflow when he 
applied for loan two. Mr G says he cant remember if he needed the money for a specific  
reason.
Shortly before applying for this loan, Mr G had received a large financial settlement in 
relation to a separate  financial  claim. He used this settlement amount to settle  his largest  
outstanding loan before  he applied for the second loan with Everyday  Lending. 
Everyday Lending  says it completed  reasonable and proportionate checks, including  taking 
details of Mr Gs income, rental  expense  and other  credit commitments. Again, Everyday 
Lending applied  a 35% reduction to his income to cover his living costs. Everyday Lending 
says these checks showed the loan was affordable and therefore its decision to lend was 
fair.
Ive already explained why I disagree with Everyday Lending that its checks for loan one 
were proportionate. And ultimately the same applies here for loan two  if not more.  In this 
instance Mr G was taking  out a larger  amount of credit  over a longer period of time. And as 
such Im satisfied that Everyday Lending  shouldve completed further checks to get a 
thorough understanding of Mr Gs financial position  before  it decided  to approve the loan. 
Everyday Lending  didnt do this, so I find that it didnt complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks before providing loan two.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr G would have been able to 
sustainably repay  his loans?
Mr G has provided  our service with copies of his bank statements from the time of his 
applications. Ive looked through them to get an idea of what  reasonable and proportionate 
checks are more likely than not to have  shown.
Loan one
Mr Gs statements clearly show that his outgoings  were significantly higher than those which  
Everyday Lending  had assumed when deciding if the loan was affordable. Mr Gs income is 
also slightly lower than the amount which was declared when he applied for loan one. The 
bank statements also show that Mr G had, in the past, supplemented his income  with other  
forms of credit. 
The statements  also show that Mr G was managing his finances  to a very tight budget. This 
included Mr G entering into his unarranged  overdraft, albeit briefly, on a number of 
occasions each  month  prior to loan one being  approved. It also shows  that the months 
leading up to the application, Mr G was often  managing his finances with less than £100 
disposable income left over each month.
Ref: DRN65906975Everyday Lending  has said the fact Mr G was consolidating his existing debts meant that he 
had more disposable income than his bank statements suggest after the loan was approved.  
Ive considered this argument but ultimately, I disagree it meant Mr G could  sustainably  
repay loan one. 
In this case, the amount  which Mr G was applying  for was not sufficient to settle  all of the 
existing credit commitments he had in full. So, this means, whilst the total amount Mr G had 
to pay each month mayve reduced,  all of his existing commitments wont  have been met by 
the Everyday  Lending  loan. And significantly in this case, the largest credit commitment  of 
approximately £220 wouldnt  have been settled by Everyday Lendings loan. 
In fact, looking at the payments which were consolidated, it wouldve only given  Mr G 
approximately £40 more  disposable income per month. So, I dont think  that is a sufficient 
enough increase in income alone, to suggest this loan would be affordable  in a sustainable 
way. 
I say this because  whilst  Everyday Lendings loan wouldve consolidated the monthly 
repayments (albeit by a small  amount) this doesnt take into account  that this loan had a 24 
month term. So, while Mr G was making  an overall  saving  of £40 a month this would only 
have been for four months  as the commitments consolidated were  in any event scheduled to 
be repaid in full approximately four months later. So Mr G was placed in a position where 
hed save £40 a month  for four months but then pay an extra £124 for the following 20 
months. I dont think that this was sustainable  for someone like Mr G was already managing 
within a tight budget.  This is especially the case  when  bearing in mind  he had a dependent 
whom Everyday Lending was aware of.     
So, taking all of this into consideration I think the term of the loan and Mr Gs tight budget 
means that he was unlikely to be able to maintain his payments for the duration of the loan 
without undue difficulty or having  to borrow further. And, in these circumstances, I find that 
Everyday Lendings  decision  to provide loan one wasnt fair and reasonable bearing in mind 
all the circumstances  of this case.  
Loan two
Ive already found that Everyday Lending unfairly provided Mr G with loan one. As this is the 
case, I dont think  that it is necessary for me to recreate  reasonable and proportionate  
checks for loan two. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
As Ive already  explained above,  it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to just complete 
checks, it needed to carefully consider all of the information it was obtained  before deciding  
to lend  and that includes  making a fair decision.
In the case of loan two, Mr G says he wanted to take out further cash (for a reason  he 
cannot remember), and to consolidate  the existing loan. Its unclear whether Mr G asked 
Everyday Lending  to ensure that he only had one monthly payment (although this seems  
unlikely bearing  in mind  his monthly payment wasnt reducing) or whether Everyday Loans 
insisted on Mr G settling loan one with additional funds borrowed on loan two.  But,  in any 
event, Everyday Lending was consolidating, what Ive already found to be an unsustainable 
debt for loan one, into an even  more expensive loan over an even longer term. 
Ref: DRN65906976I accept that Mr G had been  able to settle  the loan (with another  provider)  that wasnt  repaid 
with the funds from loan one. But he did this as a result of a one-off  compensation payment. 
And it was also clear that hed still been taking  out short-term lending with other  providers, in 
the period after loan one was provided, even  though  the funds from loan one were supposed 
to have ended his use of short-term loans.  
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  consider  that Mr G was more likely  than not in the sort 
of financial position  where hed be able to sustainably repay loan two. And I find that when it 
provided loan two, Everyday Lending increased  Mr Gs overall indebtedness in a way that 
was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. It follows that I find Everyday Lending also unfairly 
provided loan two to Mr G.  
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Having reviewed the file, Im minded  to agree with our adjudicator and say that Everyday  
Lending acted  fairly  once  it knew  of Mr Gs health  condition. All parties agree this was only 
mentioned after the second loan was taken out; and Everyday Lending acted  in a way to 
help reduce Mr Gs monthly  commitment  to his loan. 
So, having  carefully thought about  everything, I dont think  that Everyday Lending acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr G in some other way.
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out earlier in 
this decision, I think  that Everyday  Lending  unfairly  and unreasonably provided  Mr G with 
both of his loans. As Mr G ended  up paying  and is being expected  to pay interest and 
charges on loans he shouldnt have been  given, I think that he lost out because  of what 
Everyday Lending  did wrong. 
So I think that Everyday  Lending now needs to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right  for Mr G
 
Normally our service  would instruct  Everyday  Lending to put the consumer back  in the 
position they wouldve been  had no error  occurred. That isnt possible because ultimately   
Mr G has had the benefit of the capital which Everyday Lending has provided. 
However, we would usually ask Everyday  Lending to remove  any interest and charges, and 
to treat any payments which Mr G has made  as a reduction of the capital amount. We would 
ask the lender to refund  any overpayments with interest and to remove  any adverse 
information on Mr Gs credit  file. 
I think this approach applies in this case too. This is because Ive concluded that loan one 
was lent in an unsustainable way; and as such the refinancing which  occurred in loan two 
was making this even  more unsustainable to Mr G. As such  the loan shouldnt  have been 
provided. Because of this Im satisfied Mr G is entitled to a full refund of the interest, fees 
and charges which have been  applied to both loans.  
Ref: DRN65906977my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Everyday Lending limited to:
Loan one:
Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on loan one;
pay Mr G 8% simple  interest on the refunded  interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loan one.
Loan two:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Gs account  from when  it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Mr G has made as a reduction of the principle  amount;
If this results in Mr G having paid more  than what he was initially lent then any extra  
should be treated  as an overpayment  and refunded  to Mr G plus 8% simple  interest  
on this amount from date of payment  to date of settlement;
If an outstanding  balance remains on Mr Gs account after all adjustments  have been 
made then Everyday Lending  Limited needs to come to suitable  repayment plan with 
Mr G to pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loan two.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Everyday Lending  must give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off 
if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN6590697