K821x#15complaint
Mr T and Ms W have  complained about  Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limiteds  handling 
of a claim under their home  insurance policy after an escape of water  caused damage at 
their property.
background
In January 2017, Mr T and Ms W noticed  a leak coming from their en-suite bathroom. They 
made a claim under  their policy. Lloyds arranged for its contractor to visit the property, 
following which it accepted the claim and agreed to repair the damage which  had been  
caused. Lloyds  paid for Mr T and Ms W to stay in alternative accommodation while these  
repairs were carried out.
In March 2017, Mr T and Ms W moved  back in to the property. However, they were unhappy 
at the way the claim had been  handled. They complained to Lloyds. They  also raised  
concerns about  snagging  issues.
In June 2017, Lloyds issued its final response to the complaint. It agreed to pay Mr T and 
Ms W £350 compensation for its poor service. It agreed to review  the snagging  issues.
In July 2017, Lloyds paid Mr T and Ms W a cash settlement  of £360 to cover  the cost of 
resolving the remaining  repair  issues which were cracked tiles, a damaged carpet  and some  
plastering.
In September  2017, Mr T and Ms W contacted Lloyds again,  saying  there was a stain  to their 
living room  ceiling. They  believed  it was because water was leaking from the newly-fitted 
shower door.
Lloyds arranged for its contractor to re-visit the property. The contractor afterwards told 
Lloyds it had stain blocked and re-painted the ceiling,  and that it had re-sealed the outside of 
the shower door but that Mr T and Ms W had not allowed them to re-seal the inside of the 
shower door.  The contractor said that this meant the damage would continue, particularly as 
Mr T and Ms W were ignoring  advice  not to point  the showerhead against the shower door.
Mr T and Ms W disputed  the contractors version  of events. They  said the contractor  hadnt  
re-painted the ceiling  and had re-sealed the inside of the shower  door though they told the 
contractor they thought  this was the wrong  thing to do.
In October  2017, in view of the conflicting accounts,  Lloyds proposed that the contractor 
should send in a new repair team to take photos and confirm what  repair  work had been  
carried out. However, according to Lloyds file notes,  Mr T and Ms W said they didnt want  
anyone else going  to their property until they had sought legal advice.
In April 2018, Mr T and Ms W wrote to Lloyds contractor through their solicitor. Included  with 
the letter was an undated report by a tiler in which he said that he believed the reason for the 
leak was that the shower door had been fitted  incorrectly. He also drew attention to two 
cracked wall tiles and poor plastering throughout (repair of which  had been accounted for in 
the July 2017 cash settlement). He estimated a cost of £530  to fix the bathroom issues  and 
£650 to fix the plastering. However,  he said that if the original tiles could not be sourced, the 
cost of the bathroom work would increase to £3,000. The solicitors  letter  asked that the 
contractor arrange  to have someone  analyse the defects  and arrange  to have satisfactory 
Ref: DRN68497122remedial work carried  out within 14 days. It said failure to have someone inspect the 
property would lead to proceedings for damages.
Lloyds took the letter  to be a formal complaint and issued a final response  letter  in 
June 2018. It didnt uphold the complaint.  It said it was satisfied that the shower door had 
been correctly  fitted and the report from the tiler didnt persuade it otherwise. Its contractor 
had advised Mr T and Ms W that the door needed to be sealed properly to prevent leakage.  
A full and final cash settlement in respect  of the cracked tiles and plastering had been made 
in July 2017. It was satisfied  it had fulfilled its obligations under the policy  and it believed its 
liability under  the policy  ended at the point the cash settlement was accepted. It considered  
that a further visit to the property would  not be beneficial. 
Mr T and Ms W were unhappy at Lloyds response. In October 2018, they referred  their 
complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Lloyds issued a final response  in June 2017  offering £350  compensation for its poor service  
up to that point. It is too late for Mr T and Ms W to raise those issues  again so Im not 
considering them within this decision.  Thats because our rules say we can only consider 
complaints made within six months of a final response  being  issued, and it was more than a 
year after Lloyds response that Mr T and Ms W complained to us.
In July 2017, Mr T and Ms W accepted  a cash settlement of £360 to cover  the remaining 
snagging issues  this wasnt set out in a final response letter. Lloyds say this was in full and 
final settlement of those  issues  though it hasnt provided any documents  to show that Mr T 
and Ms W agreed that this was the case.  I recognise  that there was a delay of some nine 
months before Mr T and Ms W indicated to Lloyds,  through  their solicitors letter, that they 
considered the settlement to be inadequate. Nonetheless, I consider that this doesnt mean 
that Lloyds was able to ignore their complaint.  Im therefore satisfied that the fairness of the 
cash settlement is something I can consider in this decision.
Its apparent from the file notes that in October  2017  there  was a breakdown in the 
relationship between the policyholders and Lloyds  contractor. Mr T and Ms W believed the 
contractor had carried out poor repair  work which had resulted in an ongoing leak.  They 
didnt have faith that the contractor would correctly  address the issue. Meanwhile,  the 
contractor maintained that Mr T and Ms W had prevented  it from carrying out an effective 
repair. Lloyds offered to get the contractor  to send in a new repair  team to take photos and 
assess the matter. I think this was a reasonable offer. However,  Mr T and Ms W wouldnt 
allow this and instead chose to get legal advice.
There was then a delay of six months before Mr T and Ms W wrote to Lloydss  contractor 
through their solicitor. I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this delay.  There was nothing  it 
could do to progress  matters once Mr T and Ms W had resolved in October 2017 to pursue 
matters through  their solicitor.
The solicitors letter enclosed the quote from the tiler for not only the fixing of the ongoing  
leak but also the cost of repair to the tiles and plastering which had been the subject of the 
July 2017 cash  settlement.  I consider  the tilers report is detailed  and gives  a clear 
explanation of what he considers to be the problem with the shower, along with the other 
problems. I have no reason to believe  his quote,  which included the cost of repairs which 
Ref: DRN68497123had been allowed for in the July 2017 cash settlement, is excessive. I have  already  
explained that I consider it was reasonable for Mr T and Ms W to raise  a complaint about the 
earlier cash settlement. The solicitors letter asked for a surveyor to visit the property and 
assess the damage.
Given the dispute that had arisen, I think the solicitors suggestion was fair. I consider that, in 
view of the tilers report, Lloyds should have arranged for an inspection  to take place. 
However, it refused  to do this.
Lloyds has now suggested  that an independent  inspection is the only way to fairly determine  
its liability. I think its unfortunate it has taken it so long to decide this and I consider  it has 
made this offer too late. I instead  think it reasonable to rely on the report by the tiler to reach 
a fair settlement  and draw  this matter to a close for both parties.
The tiler estimated  it would cost £530  to fix the bathroom issues  (including the cracked tiles) 
and £650 to fix the plastering  a total of £1,180. I consider that Lloyds should cover this 
cost. However, given that Lloyds had previously paid a cash  settlement of £360 to cover 
some of these issues, but Mr T and Ms W appear not to have carried  out the repairs, I 
consider that Lloyds  may deduct that sum from the new settlement  leaving a total of £820  
for it to pay.
The tiler said that if replacement matching tiles couldnt be sourced, the whole room  would 
need to be stripped out and refurbished at a cost of £3,000. Mr T and Ms W say that the 
shop at which they bought  the tiles is no longer open. However, Lloyds paid its original  cash 
settlement for the cracked tiles in July 2017 and was prepared  to try and resolve the shower 
issue (which, according to the tiler, will also involve replacing some tiles) in October  2017.  
This was within eight months  of the completion of the main works.  I consider it likely that 
matching tiles would  have  available at that time. If matching tiles are no longer available,  
I consider that Mr T and Ms W should assume  some blame for effectively preventing  the 
resolution of the claim at that time and waiting six months before raising their complaint. In 
view of this, I dont  intend to require Lloyds  to meet the cost of complete refurbishment 
should matching  tiles no longer be available.
As mentioned above, I consider that Ms T and Ms W have contributed  to the situation  they 
find themselves in by refusing to allow Lloyds  to try and resolve matters in October  2017.  
However, I consider  that Lloyds was wrong  to refuse the invitation  to carry out a fresh 
inspection in April 2018 when it was presented with the tilers report. I understand that the 
repairs are still waiting  to be carried out and I think the ongoing dispute will have caused 
Mr T and Ms W some degree  of distress and inconvenience. I consider that Lloyds should 
pay Mr T and Ms W £250 compensation for this.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr T and Ms W said they were now unable to obtain matching tiles and would therefore be 
left out of pocket  under  my proposed  settlement. They  considered this to be unfair, 
particularly as a total of four tiles had cracked  rather than just the two to which I had referred 
in my decision; they considered this to be evidence of unsatisfactory  workmanship. They 
believed it was not their fault that the claim had dragged on for so long that matching tiles 
could not now be sourced.
Lloyds did not respond to my provisional decision.
 
Ref: DRN68497124my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no need  to change 
my provisional decision.
Mr T and Ms W say that a total of four tiles have cracked. I dont consider that this was clear  
from their tilers  report. And if a further two tiles have indeed  cracked, there  is no evidence to 
show that this happened  since October 2017.  I explained in my provisional  decision that 
I believed Lloyds made a reasonable offer to try and resolve the claim in October  2017  and it 
is likely  that matching tiles would have been  available at that time. However, Mr T and Ms W 
didnt accept that offer and held up the claim for six months before making a complaint. 
I remain of the opinion that Lloyds  cannot reasonably be held responsible for that delay and 
so if this caused the cost of repairs to go up, because matching tiles became  unavailable,  I 
consider that this is a cost which Mr T and Ms W must bear.
Aside from the issue of who should meet any additional repair cost due to non-availability of 
matching tiles, Mr T and Ms W have accepted my provisional decision. In view of this, and 
the fact that Lloyds did not respond, Im satisfied that my provisional decision should stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay Mr T and Ms W £820  in settlement 
of the outstanding repair issues  and £250  in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they have suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6849712