K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms H complain  that QIC Europe  Ltd has declined their home insurance claim for 
water damage to their downstairs shower room. 
background
In October  2018, Ms H fell though the floor of her downstairs shower room discovering as 
she did that the flooring joists had rotted. Mr S and Ms H thought that they would get the 
problem fixed themselves but when their plumber began to strip out the bathroom they 
noticed more damage  than they originally thought so they phoned QIC to make  a claim. Mr S 
said he was unsure whatd caused  it but thought thered been a leak through  failed grouting.
QIC initially declined the claim  as described  by Mr S. Mr S complained that QIC wouldnt 
accept the claim so it agreed to send out its field surveyor to look at the damage. The 
surveyor attended a week later and found  that the bathroom had already been  stripped out 
and almost completely  reinstated. This meant he was unable to validate  the claim. 
The surveyor looked at what evidence he could and felt that it was clear  the damage  had 
been occurring  for a long period of time. Due to the location of the damage in relation to the 
failed flooring he thought  it suggested the grout  and sealant in the shower  had failed 
allowing the water  to escape and rot the floor joists. 
QIC explained its surveyors  findings  to Mr S and Ms H and said they meant  the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy terms.  Mr S said hed been told by QIC to complete the works. QIC 
asked Mr S to send it a plumbers report and photographs of the damage as it first occurred. 
Mr S sent a plumbers report  and photographs taken after the strip out works had happened 
and two of the rotten floor. QIC reviewed the information but maintained its view that the 
claim wasnt covered. 
Mr S and Ms H complained to QIC. They said they wanted it to pay for the cost of replacing 
the bathroom. QIC investigated their complaint but didnt think  itd done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr S and Ms H complained to this service.  Our investigator 
looked into their complaint  but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She didnt think  the damage  
was covered by the policy terms. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S and Ms H, I dont think their complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Its the responsibility of a policyholder to prove,  at least on the face of it, that they have a 
valid claim under for one of the insured  events  (fire, theft, escape  of water etc.) covered by 
the policy terms and conditions. If they are able to do so then the insurer  must pay the claim 
unless it can rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. QIC has relied  on two of the 
exclusions specific to the escape of water  event listed in the policy in order  to decline the 
claim.
Ref: DRN69538242Damage caused  by an escape of water  from a fixed domestic water installation  is covered by 
the policy. But not if it happens  gradually,  or is caused by the failure of sealant or grout.  Its 
these two specific exclusions that QIC has relied on to decline the claim and I dont think it 
has done so unreasonably. 
I say this because  when Mr S first contacted  QIC he said he thought  failed grouting  had 
caused the leak. The damage  as described by the plumber in his report  would also suggest 
that this is what had happened. He says that when he removed the tiles around the bottom 
of the shower  he found the plasterboard was wet and crumbled. He also found that the 
timber work  and insulation were  wet. He says that the only water  point above that height was 
the shower mixer where he found a small leak on a straight push fit on the warm  feed 
copper pipe. Its reasonably unlikely that this could have caused  the extent of the damage  
reported. 
The nature of the damage  and Ive seen photographs of rotting timber and plasterboard  
suggest to me that it had been  going on for a long time. I think  its reasonable to think that Mr 
S and Ms H should  have noticed  failed  grout  and/or sealant. Floor  joists dont rot rapidly, 
indeed the field surveyor who saw photographs of the rotten  floor thought  the extent of the 
damage meant itd been going on for a very long time. The field surveyor commented that he 
thought the most likely cause of such extensive  damage was water  escaping through failed  
sealant and grout. And I think that its fair to think that damage of this nature  was something 
that Mr S and Ms H should, in all reasonableness, have realised was occurring. 
I appreciate why Mr S and Ms H say they needed  the shower room repaired urgently. But 
doing so before QIC could inspect it meant its position was prejudiced.  I can see it sent Mr S 
and Ms H an email on the day they first called advising them  to take photographs  of the 
damage and not to dispose of damaged items. Unfortunately there are only two photographs 
of the damaged floor and they were taken after the tiles had been  removed. By the time the 
surveyor got there a week later the room was all but reinstated and all he was able to see 
were the removed damaged timbers and plasterboard.
Insurers should be permitted to inspect the damage  they are being  asked to cover before it 
is repaired. It is a policy  condition that QIC be able to do so. I know  Mr S and Ms H have 
said that they initially thought theyd arrange  the repair themselves, and that it was only 
when they realised the extent of the damage  (once the strip out was underway) that they 
though to contact  QIC. But thats not QICs fault.  It also asked them to photograph the 
damage yet only two photographs of the rotten floor were made available  to QIC
In the absence of being  able to inspect the damage and validate the claim, QIC has had to 
rely on what Mr S told it and the (limited) reports of the plumber and field surveyor when  
deciding whether to accept  the claim. Taken  together I think, on balance, that its reasonable 
QIC thought that failed  sealant and grout gradually  caused the damage. Given the extent of 
the damage that was reportedly  caused  I think its reasonable that there must have been 
some indication that the grout/sealant was failing. Of course its regrettable  that QIC werent 
able to assess the damage  before  the strip out but, as Ive said above,  it takes  a long while  
for floor joists to rot and I dont think its unreasonable to think  that the cause  was something 
that Mr S and Ms H shouldve been aware  of. That being the case,  it follows that I dont think 
QIC treated  Mr S and Ms H unfairly  by declining their claim by relying  on two of the 
exclusions specific to the escape of water  policy event. 
Mr S and Ms H say they wouldnt have gone ahead  with the repair if they hadnt been 
encouraged to do so by QIC during  the first call. Ive not seen any evidence  that they were 
Ref: DRN69538243so encouraged but even if that was the case I dont think theyve been prejudiced in any 
way. I say that because  their claim isnt covered by the policy  terms so any strip out and 
replacement works would always have been their responsibility. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6953824