K822xComplaint
The estate  of Mrs J complains about  the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim 
under Mrs Js home emergency  insurance policy.
Background 
Mrs J had a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva under which she made a claim  
after she had problems  with her electrical  wiring  and plumbing.
Very sadly, Mrs J died whilst the claim was still being dealt with. Id like to pass  on my 
sympathy to Mrs Js family for their loss.
A family member made a complaint on Mrs Js behalf to Aviva about their handling  of her 
claim. This was about delays in the electrical  repairs  and poor customer  service.  The family 
member said appointments had not been  kept by Avivas contractors and theyd handled an 
initial complaint call from Mrs J badly. Aviva  had also rung Mrs J whilst she was ill in hospital 
when theyd been asked not to do so.
Aviva upheld most of the complaint, apologised and offered £200 in compensation. But they 
said they werent liable to pay for electrical  re-wiring work which appeared to be required at 
the property.
Mrs Js estate wasnt happy  with this outcome and made a complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought  Aviva should increase the compensation offered to £600 in total.
The estate  didnt agree  and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were a number of issues raised  in the claim made  under  Mrs Js policy.  Most of these 
have been resolved to everyones satisfaction, including a leak in a toilet and issues  with the 
drains. I wont go into these issues in any detail here because, as I say, theyve been  
resolved to everyones satisfaction.
There are four main  issues  which  are still unresolved. Theres the level of compensation the 
estate should  receive.  A £100  payment made by a family member (and executor) for 
immediate electrical  repairs, which the estate says Aviva should reimburse. Issues about the 
way a replacement  boiler was installed.  And the question of whether Aviva should pay for 
major electrical work carried out at the property.
The issues  around  the boiler installation  are being dealt with as a separate  complaint to 
Aviva. It wasnt part of the original complaint made  to us because  the events in question  
hadnt happened yet. So, according  to the FCAs dispute resolution (DISP) rules,  we cant 
look into it until after Aviva  have been  given the chance to resolve it to the estates 
satisfaction. So, Im not going to comment on that issue in this decision.
Ref: DRN60841962So, Im looking only at the estates request that a £100 payment made by an executor to an 
electrician be refunded, the overall  level of compensation which should be paid to the estate  
and the major electrical work recently  carried out at the property.
The £100  payment
The estate  says that when Avivas contractor  failed to deal with the loss of electricity in part 
of the property, it arranged for an electrician to attend and restore power, at a cost of £100. 
Unfortunately, there is no invoice for this work  or any statement from the electrician that the 
repairs conformed to safety regulations etc.
On that basis, Aviva  have  said theyre unwilling to pay it. I can certainly see Avivas point of 
view. And Im very wary of being seen to suggest  that insurers  should pay out where theres 
no proof of payment. We wouldnt take that approach in most cases. 
However, in the circumstances  of this particular case, I have no reason  at all to doubt  the 
executor who paid the electrician. And as hes pointed out, the electrics involved were not 
working at one point,  but were working  again before Avivas contractor re-attended the 
property. So, its clear  someone carried out repairs.
The payment is relatively minor. And, assuming the executor will effectively be re-paid from 
the estate, it seems to me there is a direct financial loss of £100 to the estate, which  I think  
Aviva should  pay.
The overall compensation 
This issue is complicated by the fact of Mrs Js very sad death. The estate is a legal entity, 
but unlike  a natural person, it cant  by definition  suffer upset or stress. So, when  were  
looking at compensation in this case, we can only take into account the trouble and upset 
suffered by Mrs J herself before her death.
I think the estates executors may have struggled  to understand why this is the case. And I 
can understand why they feel theyve personally been  caused  stress and upset which  should  
be compensated. 
However, we are constrained by the legal position  here. I know this might be hard for the 
executors to accept, but we have absolutely  no power to award compensation for their 
trouble and upset,  for the reasons Ive explained.
All of that said, I agree with our investigator  and to Avivas  credit theyve now accepted this 
too  that the £200 originally offered  by Aviva for Mrs Js trouble and upset isnt enough. I 
particularly bear in mind  the call they made to Mrs J when  she was severely ill in hospital 
when they had already been advised of the situation.  
I neednt go into any more  detail  here because everyone now agrees that £500 is an 
appropriate level of compensation  for the trouble and upset  Mrs J suffered. 
The electrical work carried out at the property
Since Mrs Js death, the estate has been carrying out work at the property  to prepare it for 
sale. Theyve had electrical work done  which cost more  than £1,500 and they believe Aviva 
should pay for this.
Ref: DRN60841963I know the estate will be disappointed,  but I cant agree. Mrs Js policy  was a home 
emergency policy. It was intended primarily to cover  emergencies caused by one-off 
accidents. And essentially Aviva undertook to carry out repairs to get existing systems 
working again.
The policy documents are clear  (page  7, Significant Inclusions) that it covers:
Electrics
An emergency caused by, or breakdown of, the domestic electrical wiring supply 
system
The terms and conditions  include the following, under the heading, What  isnt covered?
Routine electrical  maintenance
Any part of the electrical wiring where completing a repair would result in a breach of 
the current electrical regulations and electrical safety standards
And in the General Exclusions section, it says the following are excluded:
 systems / equipment / appliances  that have not been installed, serviced or 
maintained regularly according to British Standards or manufacturers  instructions
Weve seen a copy of the expert report the estate obtained on the electrical work needed at 
the property. This refers  in several  places  to upgrading various components  of the system, 
including the distribution board. 
It refers to under-sized earthing and main  tails. And it says that none  of the circuits comply 
with wiring regulations.
A representative of the estate confirmed the position  inadvertently,  I assume  - in response 
to our investigators view on the case. He said:
the fuse board  was outdated and replaced  with a newer model, not just for 
aesthetics but for regulations and we had no choice but to have the newer version
So, Im satisfied beyond  any doubt  the work  carried out on the electrics in the property was 
intended to upgrade an outdated system and to bring it into line with current  regulations. And 
this is very explicitly not covered by Mrs Js policy (see the quoted sections above). 
The representative of the estate has recently  asked us to consider a different policy  he had 
which covered his TV. When his TV broke down, he was provided  with an upgrade because 
the previous model was no longer available.
I understand the confusion, but these are two very different policies. Mrs Js policy was for 
home emergency cover. Its a different kind of policy from the one which covered  the 
representatives TV. 
Ref: DRN60841964As Ive shown above, it was very clear what was and wasnt covered by Mrs Js policy. And it 
didnt cover upgrades  to the electrical  system,  or repairs  to systems which no longer 
conformed to the regulations, or repairs to systems which had been installed in a way which 
didnt conform to current regulations.
The expert report is very clear that the recommended work  is required to update and bring 
up to standard  a system  which was clearly  of a certain age and outdated. So, Im not going  
to ask Aviva  to pay for the electrical  work  carried out by the estate at the property. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  made by Mrs Js estate.
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs Js estate:
£500 in compensation for Mrs Js trouble and upset; plus
£100 for direct financial losses suffered by the estate in paying for immediate 
electrical repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6084196