K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the sale of a regular premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy by Nationwide Building  Society  attached to a secured loan in 1996.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ks representative disagreed with these findings.  It has questioned 
whether Mr K would  have  been able to claim for unemployment under the policy,  bearing  in 
mind that he was self-employed when sold PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Mr K has said that he took the loan and PPI out in a meeting at a Nationwide  branch, and 
that the sales person was pushy, saying  that he should take the policy out. Nationwide  has 
only been able to provide  limited evidence from the time the policy  was sold.  I dont find this 
surprising however, bearing in mind that the sale took place over 20 years  ago.
Clearly I cannot know for certain what discussions took place when the policy  was sold. I 
have carefully considered  what  Mr K has said about the sale. I am mindful that with the sale 
being so long ago, this might make it more difficult for Mr K to recall in detail the discussions 
which occurred. Nationwide has provided  a sample  agreement from around the time Mr K 
took out his loan. This showed the cost of the personal loan repayment, and then separately 
showed the monthly cost of the PPI. It described  PPI as Optional  Credit Insurance. I 
appreciate that Mr K says the sales  person said he should take the policy  out. However 
overall, taking into account  what is shown on the sample loan agreement,  my view is that it 
is more likely than not that Mr K was given the option to choose  PPI, and he decided  to do 
so.
Mr K has described the sale of PPI as being advised  by Nationwide. Nationwide  considers 
this to have been a non-advised sale.  Based  on what I know about  Nationwides sales 
processes, my view is that it is likely the sale was non-advised.  In these circumstances, 
Nationwide did not have to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr Ks circumstances. It did 
however need  to give Mr K information  that was clear, fair and not misleading to allow him to 
make an informed choice  about taking out the policy.
Based on the sample loan agreement, which confirmed the monthly  premium  for the policy, 
my view is that Mr K would have understood how much the PPI cost.  
Based on the other evidence Ive seen,  I cant be sure Mr K was given clear enough 
information about other features of the policy when he bought it. However, Mr K was eligible 
for the policy. In addition,  looking  at the policy terms that were likely to have been  in force at 
this time, in my view Mr Ks self-employment did not make  it significantly  more difficult  for 
him to make  an unemployment claim than it was for an employed person. Mr K also seems 
Ref: DRN66859802unlikely to have  been affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover (such  as pre-
existing medical conditions).
Mr K has detailed  the savings he had when  he was sold the policy,  and has also confirmed 
the value of his car at this time. On balance  my view is that if Mr K had not been  working,  it 
might not have been practical to sell his vehicle  to support the loan repayments. The PPI 
policy would have covered the loan repayments  for up to 12 months for any one period of 
unemployment and 24 months for a period of disability. This would have been in addition  to 
any other means Mr K had for meeting the repayments, and would have meant  he did not 
need to use those other means to continue  to repay  the loan. My view is that PPI did provide  
a useful potential  benefit to Mr K.
There might  have been other areas  in which Nationwide didnt give Mr K as much  
information as it should have done. However my view is that, even if he had been given 
clearer information, Mr K is likely  to still have decided to take out the PPI. I therefore  do not 
consider this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6685980