K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Allied Irish Banks Plc, trading as Saga, havent  upheld his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
background
Mr M rented a car for eight days whilst  on holiday.  He paid for it with his Saga credit card 
and when he arrived to collect  the car he says he paid a further £45.40 to cover all 
eventualities. The car had completed  less than 200km but later that day the clutch 
overheated and it had to be collected by the rental company. They  told Mr M that they had 
no spare cars; took the car back and subsequently  charged him £468.61 for a new clutch.
Mr M complained to Saga he said that under  section  75 they had a joint responsibility for the 
issue and he wanted his money  back.
But Saga rejected his claim.  They said the conditions of the rental  agreement  allowed the 
rental company to charge  additional amounts to the customers  credit card for all expenses 
incurred during the duration of the contract  including costs  due to possible vehicle damage.  
So they said the rental company hadnt  breached the contract by charging for the repair and 
a section 75 claim couldnt be successful.
But Mr M disagreed and he therefore referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator 
thought it unlikely that a brand new cars  clutch would fail so early. He noted  that the rental 
company hadnt  provided any evidence that the car had broken because  of any operator  error 
so he didnt think it was fair to charge  Mr M for the repair. And he also noted that Mr M had 
paid extra to cover  him for what he said were all eventualities. That insurance  had clearly not 
covered him and had not been called upon to settle  the claim. So he thought Saga shouldve 
upheld Mr Ms claim and returned the clutch repair  charge and the insurance  charge. 
He went on to explain that he didnt think it was fair to leave Mr M without a replacement car 
for the rest of his holiday  and he therefore  thought it would be fair to refund Mr Ms hire cost 
for the period he was without a car. And, as Mr M had been inconvenienced by the matter, 
he also thought  it would  be fair for Saga to pay him £200 compensation.
Saga didnt agree with the investigator. They said that thered been  no breach of contract  
and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Saga but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN62382552When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im persuaded there has been  a breach of contract here because:
the car rental was for 8 days and Mr M appears to have only had use of the car for one 
of those days. A replacement wasnt provided and therefore the contract wasnt fulfilled
Ive seen no mention  of any contractual term that holds Mr M responsible  for any 
mechanical failure of the car. The term Saga rely on relates  to damages  and I think 
that can fairly  be considered to mean cosmetic damage.  I dont think  it would be usual or 
fair for a rental  company to charge for mechanical breakdown  unless that breakdown  
was the result  of operator error.
I think its unfair to suggest theres evidence the clutch  failed  because  of something Mr 
M did. Theres no engineering report.  The car was brand  new and I think  its much  more 
likely that the problem with the clutch was present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr M. I think Mr M would have expected to be provided  with a vehicle that 
worked. And regardless of the contractual position I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to charge him for the clutch replacement without any evidence it failed 
because of his negligence.
Mr M says he had insurance that covered him for all eventualities. Ive seen the charge 
on his credit  card for this payment but Saga havent  provided a copy of the insurance  or 
provided an alternative explanation for what the charge was for. Im therefore persuaded 
that Mr Ms testimony is probably  correct and that its likely he did pay for what he 
thought was insurance for all eventualities . The amount of money he paid would seem 
a reasonable sum to charge for that type of insurance  and I think its usual  for rental  
companies to offer this additional insurance when customers arrive to collect their cars. 
I think that supports  the view that Mr M paid for additional  insurance.
So Im persuaded  that the contract  was breached and in those circumstances I think  the 
investigators suggested redress is sensible. Saga should refund seven days of car rental as 
Im satisfied the clutch failure  happened at the end of the first day and Mr M had no benefit 
from the car thereafter.  They  should also refund the charge  for the replacement  clutch  and I 
think its fair for them  to refund the insurance charge as Im persuaded it was most  likely 
incurred to protect Mr M in all eventualities  and it has evidently not done. 
I think Saga  couldve done more to help Mr M and I think hes had to endure an 
unreasonable delay. So, in the circumstances, I think  they should compensate him for that 
inconvenience and I agree with the investigators  suggestion that £200 is fair.
Ref: DRN62382553my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Allied Irish Banks Plc to:
refund the cost Mr M was charged  for the replacement clutch and add 8% simple 
interest per annum 
refund Mr M for seven days car hire for the period he was without a car and add 8% 
simple interest per annum
refund the £45.40  for the cover  he didnt receive and add 8% simple  interest  per annum
pay Mr M £200 to compensate him for the inconvenience hes experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6238255