K822xcomplaint
Mr V complains that Friends Life Limited didnt invest his pension contributions as hed
instructed. The money was switched into funds which gave  a lower return.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2019.  Ive attached  it and it forms part of this 
decision. In summary  I upheld in part Mr Vs complaint. I set out how Friends  Life should 
compensate Mr V. 
Mr V was generally happy with the outcome. But he did make  a couple of points:
First, he thought my redress was a little narrow. Id proposed treating the contributions hed 
made from May 2015 (save for the March 2017 contribution) as if theyd been invested in FL 
UK Equity Fund. Mr V suggested that should also apply  to the contributions  hed made in in 
March 2013 and December 2014.  He said Id recognised he couldnt have known, from the 
information hed been given, what was happening with his contributions, at least not before  
late 2016. Logically, the further  back in time it was, the less able he was to determine the 
true position.  
Id said FL should  have  contacted him and told him his instructions would be overridden. 
That should  have happened with the earlier contributions too, especially as the December 
2014 one was a large  payment. It wasnt fair to exclude those contributions  when hed given 
specific investment instructions for those  payments  too. 
Secondly Mr V recognised it had taken him a long time to move  his investments once he 
knew something had gone wrong.  He said hed struggled to understand the paperwork and 
when he did realise  what had happened  he didnt know what  to do to put things right,  
especially as he felt the damage  had already been  done. And, later on, once  hed 
complained he was nervous about moving  his fund as he thought  Friends Life would be less 
inclined to investigate properly if he did. 
He accepted that Friends Life wasnt responsible for some of the time it had taken  him to 
deal with the matter.  But he suggested it would be reasonable  to allow  a little more  time than 
up to 31 October 2016  say another two or three  months.   He added that the transfer  was a 
complex process and he couldnt deal with it quickly. And, if hed complained earlier it would 
still have taken Friends Life the same sort of time to deal with it.
Mr V said that the basis of the calculation Id asked Friends  Life to do seemed 
straightforward. But it might not be. Friends Life should be asked  to show  how theyd done 
the calculations.  
Mr V also pointed out that there  was a contribution which didnt appear on the list Id set out 
in my provisional decision  hed made  a further  payment of £25,000 in May 2015.  
Mr V thought  it might be difficult to make a payment into the pension  as hed transferred 
away. He said a lump sum with a 15% tax deduction would be acceptable. He confirmed he 
was now a basic rate tax payer. 
Friends Life confirmed safe receipt  of my provisional decision but didnt  comment by the 
deadline set or request more time. The adjudicator emailed Friends Life on 4 March 2019  
Ref: DRN63783972with a copy of Mr Vs comments and saying  that I intended to issue  my final decision shortly. 
The adjudicator drew Friends Lifes attention to the contribution of £25,000 in May 2015 
which had been  omitted and which would  need to be included in the redress  calculations. 
We havent heard further from Friends Life. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive considered  what  Mr Vs said in response to my provisional decision. 
I understand Mr Vs point  about not knowing how his contributions  would be invested. But I 
think he did have some responsibility to monitor what  was happening. In particular he should 
have known that the Lifestyle investment programme had started. Friends  Life wrote to him 
three times in 2011 to remind him. And he should have known that future  contributions would 
be invested in line with that. 
As Ive said,  I think Friends Life should have realised  that the specific investment instructions 
that Mr V gave when  he made his single contributions  were  inconsistent with the Lifestyle 
investment programme. But I pointed to the number and size of those  contributions. If Mr V 
had made  fewer or less significant contributions my view might  have been different. I might 
have said that Friends Life couldnt  really be criticised for not spotting that Mr V may not 
have appreciated  that his instructions would in effect be overridden by the Lifestyle 
investment programme. 
So I dont  think it was incumbent on Friends Life to query the position at first. But, as time 
went on, I think Friends Life should have contacted Mr V to check that he understood how 
the Lifestyle programme would impact on his specific investment instructions. So, on that 
basis, I still think its appropriate to draw a distinction between  the contributions made before 
May 2015.  
I note what Mr Vs said about not being able to move  his funds promptly once he became 
aware what had happened. I know that in the end he transferred away from Friends Life. But 
I think it would have  been relatively  easy for him, once he found out that his contributions  
hadnt been invested as hed thought, to exit the Lifestyle investment programme and switch 
funds. That would have  limited the damage  even if he later decided  to transfer away from 
Friends Life. 
Im sorry  I omitted to include the contribution of £25,000 Mr V made in May 2015.  Assuming 
Mr Vs instructions were  for that contribution (or part of it) to be invested  in FL UK Equity 
Fund it should be included in the redress.
All in all my views remain as set out in my attached provisional decision. And the redress  
(which included a direction  that Friends Life provide details of its calculations  to Mr V in a 
clear and simple format)  is unchanged (but, as Ive set out above,  should include the 
contribution of £25,000 which Mr V made  in May 2015).   
my final decision
I uphold in part Mr Vs complaint.  Friends Life should  redress him as Ive set out in my 
attached provisional decision.
Ref: DRN63783973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63783974PROVISIONAL DECISION  dated 1 February 2019
complaint
Mr V complains that Friends Life Limited  didnt invest his pension contributions as hed instructed. The 
money was switched  into funds  which  gave a lower  return. 
background
Mr V took out this pension plan in 2001. He was contracting out of what  was the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) with rebated national insurance contributions to be paid into the 
plan. The application form set out the available funds. Mr Vs instructions were for 100% of the 
contributions to be invested  in the FL UK Equity Fund. Mr V made  regular  contributions of £250 gross  
per month.  His employer also contributed. 
Mr V ticked a box for the Lifestyle Investment Programme to start five years from his selected 
retirement age (his 60th birthday in June 2016). A note, headed Important, said when that started  the 
funds would be automatically switched in line with his instruction. 
Friends Life wrote to Mr V on 9 January 2011 saying  that his chosen investment programme 5 year 
Lifestyle would start on 13 May 2011. And: 
From that date, your pension investments will be gradually moved into different funds as you get 
closer to your retirement date, with the aim of moving them into lower  risk funds.  This movement of 
funds will occur  at regular  times  without  charge.  You will see these movements  on your future  
statements. Future contributions will also be invested in these  funds in the same proportion.
The percentages  to be moved and the funds to be moved into, are set out in the investment brochure. 
If you would like a copy please contact us using the details above.
The letter added  that up to date information  on any of the funds,  including those  under the Lfestyle 
investment programme,  was available on Friends  Lifes website or by telephone.  No action was 
needed by Mr V unless he wanted to change or cancel  the programme.
Friends Life sent letter  with similar information on 8 February 2011 and 13 May 2011 (but saying the 
programme would start on 12 June 2011). Friends Life also wrote to Mr V on 22 July 2011.  The letter 
referred to Mr Vs recent request to update his investment options  and said it had made  the following 
changes to his pension investments. Under the heading, Switch Fund Holdings (in bold),  the letter 
said:
We have  updated your details  using a price date of 22 July 2011  as follows
50% of the holdings in the UK Equity fund are now invested in the Pre-Retirement  Fixed Interest 
Fund. 
Mr V later made a number of single  contributions to the Plan. Ive seen some of the letters or emails  
Mr V sent with his payments saying where  the money should be invested.  The dates, gross amounts 
and funds Mr V nominated were as follows:
March 2013     £8,750          50% FL UK Equity/50% FL Pre-retirement  Fixed Interest
December 2014  £55,000        50% FL UK Equity/50% FL Pre-retirement Fixed Interest
May 2015    £625             100% FL UK Equity
May 2015     £14,062.50   100% FL UK Equity
November 2015  £50,000        100% FL UK Equity  
March 2016         £25,000        100% FL UK Equity
March 2016        £2,500          100% FL UK Equity
March 2017 £32,000        100% FL Pre-Retirement Fixed  Interest
Ref: DRN63783975The complaint centres on the contributions Mr V asked to be put in the FL UK Equity Fund. Friends 
Life initially invested the money in that Fund, as Mr V had directed. But the operation of the Lifestyle 
investment programme  meant the money was then moved into lower risk funds (FL Pre-Retirement 
Fixed Interest and Cash).  And, as Ive identified below,  there was also a problem with the last, March 
2017, payment. 
Friends Life wrote to Mr V to confirm receipt of each contribution. I havent seen all of the post sale 
documentation for all of the contributions. But I assume it was similar to the letter dated  1 June 2016 
which Ive considered  in more detail  below. 
On 12 July 2016  Friends Life wrote  to Mr V saying  his selected retirement  date had passed.  As he 
hadnt told Friends  Life when  he intended to retire it had updated its records to show a retirement date 
in June 2030.  The letter also said the Lifestyle investment programme had now ceased.  
Mr V emailed Friends Life on 5 October 2016.  He asked for a list of the lump sum payments hed 
made since the beginning of 2012.  Friends  Life sent him a contributions  history for the Plan on 11 
October 2016. It showed  dates and amounts. But not how the payments had been invested or any 
fund switches.  
In March 2017  Mr V emailed  Friends Life about a contribution  of £32,000 to be invested in the FL Pre-
retirement fixed interest Fund. He also queried  how the single contributions hed made  in 2015 had 
been invested. He said he wasnt sure if his instructions  had been followed. According to his records 
hed asked for them  to be paid into the FL UK Equity Fund. Friends Life replied on 13 March 2017 
with the payment dates, amounts and where  theyd been invested. Mr V also had a number  of 
telephone calls with Friends Life in 2017. 
In June 2017  his benefits were transferred  to a new arrangement with a different provider.
Mr V complained to Friends  Life by letter dated 2 August 2017. In summary he said:   
The post sale documents  dated 21 March 2013 showed 100% of the contribution had been 
initially invested in the FL UK Equity Fund as hed instructed. That was clearly separate  to the 
further information about  the Lifestyle investment programme which  related to other funds  
invested in the plan, not those for which hed just given  Friends Life specific instructions which  
he reasonably  expected Friends  Life to follow. 
Hed made nine separate and significant contributions over a four year period which  Friends 
Life had switched,  sometimes within  a matter of days, under the Lifestyle investment  
programme. Prior to making the contributions thered  been  written or verbal communication 
with Friends  Life. So it had nine separate opportunities to tell him what was going to happen  
to his contributions  but failed to do so. 
When his retirement  date was changed  Friends Lifes systems should have taken that into 
account as required  by the Lifestyle  investment programme. 
Friends Life had said that once  that programme is in place it applies to the whole Plan. But 
the letter  dated 13 May 2011  refers to investments outside the programme. And to changing 
the programme which was exactly  what he was trying to do.
The letter  dated 18 December 2014 includes a lot of detail about how it was possible to 
change investments and how the Lifestyle investment programme could manage only part of 
the overall funds held in the plan. He didnt  use the form but his instructions  had been clear. 
Page 3 of Friends Lifes letter dated 5 September 2016 clearly  said that future payments will 
be invested 100%  in FL UK Equity Fund apart from some  separate accounts. 
The annual  statements  didnt really  help. It was only when there was nothing in the FL UK 
Equity Fund that it became  apparent  that something was amiss. 
His estimated loss was some £37,070.
Friends Life didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. Friends Life said:
Ref: DRN63783976When Mr V made his single contributions the Lifestyle investment programme had already 
started. Both current  and future contributions were  invested in line with that. The programme 
applied to the whole plan.  Future  contributions couldnt be kept separate  in a different fund. 
It referred to its May 2011 letter saying  the programme would start in June 2011 and that Mr 
Vs funds  would gradually be moved into lower  risk investments with future contributions 
invested in the same  funds in the same proportion. The investments referred  to as outside the 
programme were  with profits funds or in a personal managed portfolio, neither of which  
applied to Mr V. 
The letter  dated 21 March 2013 says the contribution was invested 100%  in the FL UK Equity 
Fund. But underneath  it said that Mr V had selected the 5 year Lifestyle  investment 
programme and an allowance for that had been made in the illustration. As he was already  
two years into the programme  it would  be reasonable to expect  some of his contribution to be 
moved straight away. 
The post sale letters did say the funds would  be moved.  If Mr V had queried  that at the time 
the Lifestyle investment programme  would have been stopped. Friends Lifes letter of 18 
December 2014 included a form to opt out of the programme. 
When Mr Vs retirement date was deferred it wasnt appropriate for Friends Life to make 
changes to his funds. He could have told Friends Life to switch funds. 
The letter  of 5 September 2016 said future contributions would be invested 100% in the UK 
Equity Fund. But immediately below it said that didnt take into account  any payments 
managed by the Lifestyle investment programme.  
The annual  statements  gave a full breakdown  of where Mr Vs funds  were invested
Mr V asked us to look into the matter  for him. He said his lump sum contributions  totalled £220,000   
about half the plan value. Hed given specific  instructions how each payment was to be invested  
nearly all in the FL UK Equity Fund. Friends Life had initially followed his instructions  before 
(sometimes within a very short period) switching the investments in accordance with the programme.  
The value of the plan was significantly lower  than if Friends Life had followed  his clear instructions. 
Mr V said the position might  be different  if hed made just one or two lump sum payments. But having 
made nine it would have been easy for Friends Life to have alerted  him to the situation. The 
documentation was open  to interpretation (if not misleading). Friends Life shouldnt be able to rely on 
standard documentation to override clear instructions. Especially when  the documents  indicate  that 
its possible for only part of the fund to be subject to the Lifestyle investment programme.  
He added that with the benefit of hindsight he could  have been even more  explicit in his instructions. 
And it did take him some  time to work  out what had happened. So he accepted he should  bear some 
responsibility for the loss hed suffered. 
Our adjudicator looked  into Mr Vs complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said the central  
issue was whether  Mr V should have taken more decisive  action sooner  to cancel the Lifestyle 
investment programme  or if Friends Life ought to have  realised Mr Vs instructions were inconsistent 
with that and investigated his intentions at some point. But, on balance, the adjudicator  thought 
Friends Life had handled the contributions  appropriately. The Lifestyle investment programme  had 
already started when Mr V made  his contributions. He should have known where  theyd be invested. 
And he had the opportunity  to move  them into higher risk funds  if he wanted.
Mr V disagreed. He said hed made nine single contributions with specific investment instructions 
which Friends  Life had effectively ignored. He hadnt wanted to move away  from the Lifestyle 
investment programme  completely  only for certain investments to be put in equities.  He agreed 
Friends Life wasnt  required to assess suitability. But he expected  Friends Life to follow his clear  
instructions. Friends  Lifes letters were confusing and shouldnt be considered  with the benefit of 
hindsight. It wasnt until around August  2016 that he realised that something had gone seriously  
amiss as no equity investment was shown.  Until then the statements showed a mix of investments. 
The values could be due in part at least to poorly  performing equity investments. He had no real way 
of knowing just what  switching was taking place. 
Ref: DRN63783977my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive first considered if Mr V should  have known  about the Lifestyle investment programme.  The plan 
was set up 2001.  The Lifestyle investment  programme  started in June 2011, some ten years later. So 
it would be understandable if, by then,  hed forgotten hed given  that instruction. His plan to retire at 
age 60 may also by then have changed.
But Friends  Life wrote to Mr V three times (in January, February and May 2011) to remind  him about 
the Lifestyle  investment programme. Friends Life also wrote  on 22 July 2011 to confirm a fund switch 
had been made  50% of Mr Vs holding  in the FL UK Equity Fund  had been switched to the Pre-
retirement Fixed Interest Fund.  
The letters did say that the programme would  apply to future  contributions  theyd be invested in the 
same funds and in the same  proportions. Mr Vs pointed to what  Friends Lifes letter  dated  13 May 
2011 said about certain investments being excluded  from the Lifestyle investment programme. But 
those were specified as with profits investments  or in a personal managed portfolio, neither of which 
applied to Mr V.
In my view Mr V ought to have known the Lifestyle investment programme  had started  and that future  
contributions would be invested in line with that. If that wasnt  what  he wanted he could  have 
contacted Friends Life to discuss his options, including  exiting the programme.  
But I think theres  some merit in Mr Vs argument that, given the number and size of the single 
contributions he made, Friends Life should  have  realised  his investment instructions were 
incompatible with the Lifestyle  investment programme and clarified things with him.
I havent seen Mr Vs letter or email instructions for all of the payments.  But it isnt disputed that he 
gave specific investment instructions for each payment. The operation  of the Lifestyle investment  
programme meant his contributions couldnt remain in the particular fund hed nominated. So, in 
effect, Friends Life was unable  to comply with his instructions, except on an interim or temporary 
basis, unless he exited the programme. 
I think  Friends  Life should  have realised Mr Vs investment  instructions were incompatible with the 
programme and would, in effect, be overridden (sometimes almost immediately). 
Friends Life should have  sought clarification  from Mr V and pointed out to him that it wasnt open to 
him to give specific  instructions about how a particular  contribution should  be invested when he 
remained in the Lifestyle investment programme.  It would have been relatively easy for Friends Life to 
have contacted  Mr V to check he understood how the programme would impact on his specific 
instructions and to confirm he wanted to remain in the programme. 
My view might  have been different if Friends Life had made the position  very clear to Mr V when it 
wrote to him confirming receipt  of his contributions. But I think the post sale documentation could 
have been clearer. Ive looked at the letter dated 1 June 2016 and enclosures as an example.  
change instructions form 
First Im not sure Mr V would have realised the form might contain relevant  information. It says its for 
use if Mr V wanted to update his personal details or change his investment instructions. His personal 
details hadnt changed.  And, as hed given specific instructions for the contribution hed just made, he 
might not have thought he needed to read the form.
Assuming he did read it hed have seen the section  headed, Your investment choices. Under  that 
was a further heading,  Lifetime  investment  programme . There  was a box to select a programme (if 
available) or another to tick to exit a current  programme.  In that case  the investor  must provide 
Ref: DRN63783978instructions for the redirection of future contributions and may give instructions to switch  existing fund 
holdings. The investor was referred to the Investment  funds section.  
The form then said, in bold,  that the Investment  funds and Lifestyle investment programme  sections 
didnt apply if a Lifestyle  investment programme  had been chosen. 
The next section of the form is headed Lifestyle investment programme.  Theres a box to select a 
Lifestyle investment programme  (if offered).  And a box to tick to exit a current Lifestyle investment 
programme. 
At first reading I found those sections very confusing. But, reading  more carefully,  I can see they are 
in fact about  different programmes  Lifetime or Lifestyle investment. 
We asked  Friends Life about the two programmes. It confirmed Mr Vs plan was managed by a 
Lifestyle investment programme, designed  to gradually  move investments into funds  considered to be 
more suited  to someone approaching  retirement. The Lifetime investment programme is designed to 
manage retirement savings throughout  the lifetime  of the plan.  But again as retirement  nears the 
investment is gradually moved into lower risk funds. Friends  Life also confirmed  that each programme  
would have to apply wholly to the particular  plan  it cant apply to a part of it. 
Looking at the form,  the distinction  between the two programmes isnt immediately  apparent.  I dont 
think Mr V, if hed read the form,  would necessarily have appreciated that his Plan had a Lifestyle 
investment programme  and so what was said about the Lifetime investment  programme didnt apply 
to him  his only option was to exit the Lifestyle investment programme. 
The Investment funds  part of the form (assuming Mr V didnt think  it didnt apply because  he was in a 
Lifetime investment programme) isnt clear either. It talks about switching  funds (marked  with a *) or 
redirecting future  contributions. It gives instructions as to how to do that as well as a table with space 
for up to ten fund selections.  But below  that it says:
*Please read these notes if your plan includes a Lifestyle investment programme which  has already 
started:
Your Lifestyle investment programme manages some or all of your funds, known as 'investment  
programme funds'. These will be unaffected  by your switch request. We will apply your switch and 
redirection instructions to the portion of your fund that is not managed by the Lifestyle investment 
programme. Existing units in, and future contributions to, the investment programme  funds will not 
change, unless you exit your Lifestyle investment
programme, using the tick box on this form.
But, even if Mr V had read that  and appreciated  he was in a Lifestyle (and not a Lifetime) 
investment programme   Im not sure hed have realised the full implications.  The notes refer to some 
or all of Mr Vs funds and to the switch and redirection  instructions applying  to the portion of [the] 
fund that is not managed  by the programme . That implies  its possible  to have some funds  outside 
the programme. I dont think  Mr V would  necessarily have realised that, for his investment instructions  
to be met (long term),  hed need to exit the Lifestyle investment programme. 
post sale illustration. 
It showed  the amount of the contribution and the tax relief added. Under the heading Where your 
contributions have been  invested  it says FL UK Equity 100%. The charges  section names  that fund 
and the applicable  Annual Management Charge (AMC). I think Mr V would  have read that as 
confirming the contribution had been invested in line with his instructions
The sections headed What you might get back when  youre 60 and Important information about  
these figures  werent  easy to understand. I dont know if the growth rates used take into account fund 
Ref: DRN63783979switches as a result of the operation of the Lifestyle investment programme.  But even if they do that 
sort of adjustment isnt expressly referred to. 
All in all I dont think the illustration really gave the full picture. In particular I dont think  there was 
anything to alert Mr V to the fact that his contribution  would be switched from FL UK Equity Fund into 
a lower risk investment.  
statement of investment
This showed the total gross  contribution of £2,500 and that it had bought 1,442.82 units (at a unit 
price on 14 March 2016  of 173.27000p) in the FL UK Equity Fund. Again  I think  Mr V would  have 
understood that his contribution had been invested in line with his instruction.   
Friends Life also sent Mr V yearly statements  each September. Ive considered those. Ive looked first 
at the yearly statement  dated 3 September 2012 (for the period 1 September 2011 to 31 August 
2012). That was after the Lifestyle investment programme  had started  (in July 2011).  But it was 
before Mr V started  to make single  contributions.  So I dont think the statement is particularly relevant 
here. 
I dont think Ive seen the annual statement issued in September  2013. By the time he got it Mr V had 
made one single contribution: a payment of £8,750 (gross) in March 2013 to be invested 50% FL UK 
Equity/50% FL Pre-retirement  Fixed Interest.  As the contribution  was relatively modest with only half 
of it to be put in the FL UK Equity Fund I dont  think  the September 2013 statement  would or should  
have alerted Mr V to the possibility that the contribution hadnt been invested as hed thought.
I have seen the September 2014 statement. But in the interim Mr V hadnt made  any further single 
contributions. So he wouldnt  have been looking  to see how additional  money  paid in had been 
invested. I note that under  the heading, Your investment funds  theres  a breakdown of the total fund 
value. It was split between the FL Cash (£14,130.13) FL Pre-retirement Fixed Interest (£44,364.45) 
and FL UK Equity (£33,274.90) Funds. That might have been more  or less what Mr V was expecting. 
Earlier on in the same  section of the statement the FL UK Equity Fund is identified  as where 
payments were invested  (100%) a year ago and how future payments would be invested (again 
100%). Its marked with an * which says This  does not take into account  payments that are managed 
by your Lifestyle investment programme. But it doesnt say the programme covers all investments  in 
the Plan, including future contributions. The statement is somewhat contradictory.  Mr V may well have 
thought future  contributions would  be invested in the FL UK Equity Fund. 
By the time Mr V got his September  2015 statement hed made a contribution of £55,000 (in 
December 2014)  to be split between the FL UK Equity and FL Pre-retirement Fixed Interest Funds.  
So hed have expected to see at least £27,500 in the FL UK Equity Fund.  The statement showed 
£29,654.39 in that Fund. Again that might not have been too far off what Mr V was expecting. And the 
statement included the same  statement about payments a year ago and future  payments being 
invested in that Fund. 
The 2016 statement (yearly review) was in a slightly different format. And, during that year, Mr V had 
made three single contributions totalling £77,500 (gross), all for investment in FL UK Equity Fund.  
Hed also cancelled his regular contributions as hed used up all his annual allowance. The three 
single contributions were listed on the statement. 
Not far below that fund values were given. The total fund was £308,850.42, split between  FL Cash 
(£71,370.54) and FL Pre-retirement Fixed Interest (£237,479.88) Funds.  The statement still said that 
future payments would be invested (100%) in the FL UK Equity Fund, not taking into account 
payments managed by the Lifestyle investment programme. And the FL UK Equity Fund is listed 
under the charges section of the statement. The illustration attached  to the statement appears to have 
been based on the FL Cash and FL Pre-retirement  Fixed  Interest Funds only. 
Ref: DRN637839710The notes mentioned  the Lifestyle investment programme. And said that it had already started  and it 
was possible to opt out. It said the further details of the programme could be found in the plan 
documentation. 
Just pausing there, I think Mr V would  have been given a brochure  about investment funds when he 
took out the plan. I havent seen a copy  Friends Life hasnt retained a copy of that version. Ive seen 
a later version. It does  mention the Lifestyle investment  programme.  And sets out how it operates, 
including the fund switches made  on a monthly basis. But I havent seen anything which makes it 
clear that it isnt possible  to have only part of the fund managed by the programme. So I dont think  if 
Mr V had consulted the brochure hed have been any the wiser. 
Further what  was said about  the Lifestyle investment programme having  started wasnt right. Or was 
at least  incomplete  in that it had started but it had also come to an end.  Mr Vs selected retirement  
date in June 2016 had passed. And Friends Life had written to him in July 2016 to say that his 
retirement date had been  reset to June 2030 and that the Lifestyle investment programme  had 
stopped. 
That aside, Mr V did study the statement.  The absence of any funds  in the FL UK Equity Fund 
(despite his relatively recent instructions to invest £77,500 in that Fund) made  him think  something 
hadnt gone as hed planned. So he emailed Friends Life on 5 October 2016 querying how the lump 
sum payments hed made over the years had been invested.
It looks like it then took Mr V some time to get the answers he required. Im not sure why but from 
what he says it seems he may have been investigating his longer term options, including transferring  
to a new arrangement which he did in June 2017. 
But in the meantime in March 2017 he made a further single contribution of £32,000 which  he wanted 
to be invested in FL Pre-retirement  Fixed Interest  Fund. It looks like something went wrong with that 
payment too  I think 75% of it was invested in that Fund but the balance  in the FL Cash Fund.  I dont 
see why that was, given that by then the Lifestyle investment programme  had stopped. 
To sum up, I dont think Friends  Life has acted as it should. I think  when Mr V started to make  
contributions for investment  in the FL UK Equity Fund  Friends Life should  have contacted him and 
pointed out that, in effect, his instructions would be overridden by the Lifestyle investment 
programme. As Ive indicated Friends  Lifes post sale documentation  wasnt particularly  clear. Nor do I 
think the annual statements  Mr V got before  September 2016  would have made him aware.  There 
was also a problem  with the information given with that statement  it said the Lifestyle investment 
programme had started. It had but by then it had stopped. Further, Friends Life didnt invest  Mr Vs 
March 2017 contribution in accordance with his instructions, despite the programme having by then 
ceased. 
On that basis  Im upholding Mr Vs complaint. That means I need  to consider  what would be fair 
redress. Generally  my aim is to put Mr V as far as possible in the position  hed be in now if Friends 
Life had acted  as it should.  If, when Mr V made  his single contribution of £14,062.50 (gross) for 
investment in the FL UK Equity  Fund in May 2015,  Friends Life had contacted him to check he 
understood his contribution  would be switched as part of the Lifestyle investment programme, I think  
hed have decided  to exit the programme so that his contributions could be invested in equities. 
From what hes said it seems he was happy for some of his fund to be invested in accordance with 
the Lifestyle  investment programme. On that basis Im going to assume, if hed exited the programme  
in May 2015,  he wouldnt have made any fund switches. But that his May 2015 single  contributions 
and those he later made (apart from the March 2017 payment)  would have been invested in FL UK 
Equity Fund. 
Friends Life should calculate  what Mr Vs transfer value would have been at, say, 31 October  2016. 
That should be compared with the actual transfer value  was on that date. 
Ref: DRN637839711Thats on the basis that it seems by early October 2016 Mr V knew something had gone wrong  and 
could have instructed fund switches. I dont think its fair that Friends Life should meet any loss once 
Mr V knew there was a problem  if he didnt act quickly  to correct it. 
If theres a loss Friends Life should add a return equivalent to what  the FL UK Equity Fund would  
have produced between then and the date Mr V transferred  away. 
Friends Life should also correct the March 2017  contribution  and add to the redress any loss Mr Vs 
suffered as a result of that contribution not being invested as hed instructed. 
The total amount should be paid into Mr Vs current pension arrangement. The payment should allow  
for the effect of charges  and available tax relief.  It shouldnt be paid into the pension  if it would  conflict 
with any existing protection  or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should be 
paid directly to Mr V as a lump sum after making  a deduction of 15%. The payment would  otherwise 
have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have 
been taxed according to Mr Vs likely  tax paying  status in retirement  presumed  to be 20%. And so 
the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Friends Life should provide  details of its calculations to Mr V in a clear  and simple format.
Friends Life should also pay Mr V £100 as compensation  for the trouble  and upset  this matter has 
caused him.  
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. Friends Life Limited should  calculate  and pay compensation  to Mr V as Ive 
set out above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6378397