K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that FCA Automotive  Services UK Ltd (FCA AS) didnt allow her to reject  
the car she acquired  under a hire purchase  agreement after it experienced two separate  
faults.
background
Ms R entered into a HPA with FCA AS on 31 March  2018 to acquire a used car. She says 
that the car broke down  the first time she used it and it was found there was a cracked clutch 
pipe. The car was towed to the dealer and a repair undertaken. 
On 18 April the engine  overheated and a warning said to stop immediately. The issue  with 
the car was investigated and a cooling fan was replaced. She says at this point  she wrote a 
letter saying she wished  to reject the car and although she said she didnt want  the car back 
it was returned  to her. 
Ms R reported further issues  with the car after FCA AS had issued its final response and 
while this service was investigating  the complaint.
FCA AS says that it received a letter from Ms R on 25 April 2018  setting out her concerns. It 
contacted the dealer which confirmed the necessary car preparation had been carried out 
before delivery  to Ms R and no faults were found.  
On 4 April the car was returned and a clutch leak was discovered which was repaired the 
same day. Ms R then contacted the dealer on 19 April as the car was overheating. The car 
was collected  from Ms R and the cooling fan replaced and the car returned.  
FCA AS says that Ms R authorised the repairs and accepted the car after these. It says that 
the faults were  not linked and could  occur at any time. It says it refused Ms Rs request to 
reject the car but offered to refund her one monthly  instalment  as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that Ms R had asked  to reject the car in April 
2018 as she had no confidence  in it following  the issues she had experienced. Although 
repairs had been  undertaken  our investigator thought that the severity  of the issues meant 
that Ms R should be allowed to reject the car. 
FCA AS did not accept our investigators view. It said that the car had been  driven  over 
30,000 miles at the point of acquisition and that there was an element of risk when acquiring 
a used car. It said a fault can occur at any time and it could not determine  how the car had 
been driven. It further said the car had been  driven 2,000 miles in a month which  was above 
average suggesting significant  use before repairs were required to the gearbox.
Ms R provided further information in response  to FCA AS not accepting  our investigators 
view. She said she did not use the car to get to work  until after her rejection request had 
been declined.  At this point she says she felt she had no choice but return to using the car. 
She also raised an issue in regard  to the information  she had received about fuel 
consumption.
Ref: DRN61891082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its merits. I take relevant  regulations  into account 
but my decisions based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique 
circumstances of each  complaint.
Ms R entered into a HPA with FCA AS to acquire a used car. Under the regulations,  FCA AS 
is liable  if the car was of not satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ms R says that it was on her first journey in the car that it broke down. The issue  was 
investigated and a cracked clutch  pipe found.  Given when this issue  occurred I accept  the 
fault was present at the point of supply. A repair was carried out at no cost to Ms R and 
based on what I have  seen I do not find anything  to suggest this was not successful. At this 
time it appears that Ms R accepted the repair and I find this a reasonable remedy.
However, Ms R then experienced a further  issue with the car overheating. She says that at 
this time she asked to reject the car. I understand she initially sent the rejection letter to the 
wrong company  but that FCA AS received the letter on 25 April. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015), Ms R has a short term right to reject  the 
car. As two faults occurred within 30 days of Ms R acquiring the car, and she asked to reject 
the car, I find it reasonable that FCA AS should  have  accepted  this.
I understand that repairs were carried out on the second occasion  but also note that Ms R 
said she did not want the car returned. I do not have further details as to what  was discussed  
before the repairs took place. However,  I think it fair given this was the second issue  within  a 
couple of weeks  that she should  have been allowed to reject  the car.
Because I find that Ms R should have  been allowed to reject  the car in April 2018, I find she 
should be put back in the position she would have  been had this happened. This means that 
her HPA should be terminated and her deposit refunded (along with interest)  and any 
adverse information  regarding  this HPA removed from her credit file.
Ms R has continued to use the car and as I have no reason to suggest the repairs were  not 
successful, I find it reasonable  that she has made  payments for the use. However,  I note that 
further issues arose at the end of August and repairs were required to the gearbox.  It is at 
this point the mileage  was recorded  as just over 32,000 suggesting Ms R had only driven 
2,000 miles in five months.  
 
The issues  Ms R has experienced have reduced  her enjoyment of the car and caused her 
distress and inconvenience. She had to return the car twice in the first month and again for a 
week while  the gearbox issue was being addressed.  
I understand the first two repairs  were  undertaken in a day and that Ms R was on holiday 
while the gearbox issue was being  investigated.  Based on this I cannot  say that Ms R had 
loss of use of the car. However Ms R has explained  that she didnt drive  the car from when 
the initial issues were  raised until after her complaint  was rejected. As the final response 
letter was issued on 12 June this was around  two months. This was Ms Rs choice but I can 
understand why she was worried about further issues occurring.
Ref: DRN61891083Our investigator recommended that Ms R be refunded one monthly  rental to reflect the loss 
of enjoyment and trouble and upset she had been caused. While the period she chose not to 
use the car was longer than this, as the car was available for her use I think  it reasonable 
that only part of this period is refunded. I also find that the trouble and upset she was caused  
was limited given the short periods she was without the car. Therefore I agree that, in this 
case, a refund of one months rental  is reasonable to reflect the upset and loss of enjoyment 
she has experienced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd should:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Ms R;
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement;
refund  one monthly instalment for the trouble, upset  and loss of enjoyment thats 
been caused;
remove any adverse information  from the Ms Rs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6189108