K821x#15complaint
Ms T is unhappy with what  Great Lakes  Insurance SE (Great Lakes) did after she tried to 
make a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy.  
All references to Great Lakes  include  its claims handlers.
background
Ms T wanted to have  an extension built at her property. She found builders through a 
company that also arranges legal expenses cover  (which  was underwritten by Great  Lakes). 
In February 2018  (four months later) Ms T called the legal helpline  run by Great Lakes  
because the builders had walked off site. And she was concerned that despite  paying 
around £30,000 the value  of work done  was far less than that. 
At that point Ms T was told her policy wouldnt cover a claim because the value of the 
contract exceeded the level set out in the policy. A claim wasnt  formally logged.  The terms 
of her policy say it doesnt cover  contract work at the Principal Home where the value of the 
contract exceeds £15,000.  Ms Ts policy schedule says shes covered for the specific  value 
of the contract  she entered into. 
Following Ms Ts complaint Great Lakes said there was no policy in place for Ms T so no 
claim could  have been made on it. Our investigator  noted Ms T had a policy  schedule  
confirming cover was in place and was satisfied Ms T did have a valid policy.  He thought  
Great Lakes should  have logged and considered a claim from Ms T when she got in touch 
with it. 
To put things right he said it should  now log a claim and consider this retrospectively in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. He said if the claim  fell within  the scope of the policy 
Great Lakes should  obtain a legal  assessment  on whether it would have had reasonable 
prospects of success and would have been proportionate to pursue (as required by the 
policy terms). If so, it should also obtain  a legal opinion on what  the likely outcome of the 
claim would have been and pay this in settlement to Ms T. 
Both parties  initially agreed to this and Great Lakes  obtained a legal assessment. This found 
that although the claim had reasonable prospects of success the prospects of recovery from 
the builders werent  more  than 30%.  
Ms T then asked for the complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. She said the 
prospects should  be assessed based  on the situation when she made the claim. At that point 
she was wanting  legal  assistance  to ensure  the builders completed  the work  and this wasnt 
an issue about the recovery of funds. And action at that point might  have resolved matters 
without the need for further legal  action and so there wouldnt have  been  any financial loss to 
consider. She also outlined the losses she believed shed suffered because the claim wasnt 
progressed. 
She also said the settlement the investigator  recommended didnt take into account  the 
distress and inconvenience shed been  caused because her claim wasnt logged  when it 
should have been.
I reached a provisional  decision on the complaint last month.  In summary I said:
Ref: DRN66555992I appreciate this has been an extremely  difficult experience for Ms T which  has taken a 
considerable amount of time to resolve.  I understand shes  now had the work at her property 
completed by an alternative  firm but I recognise shes still significantly out of pocket  (shes  
quoted a figure of around £25,000) primarily because the original firm hasnt  returned  any of 
the money she paid it. 
And based on the evidence Ive seen, in particular the policy  schedule,  Im satisfied Ms T did 
have a policy in place with Great Lakes. In fact both sides now seem  to be in agreement on 
that. Im also satisfied Great Lakes cant rely on the exclusion  in the policy terms about the 
value of a contract  when  Ms Ts policy schedule says something different. Given Great  
Lakes has now obtained an assessment  of the prospects  of success of her claim it appears 
to have accepted the claim itself falls with the scope of her policy.  
So I think when Ms T got in touch with Great Lakes in February  2018  a claim should have 
been logged  from her. But in common with other legal  expenses insurance policies Ms Ts 
will only provide cover where the claim has reasonable prospects of success. And the policy 
defines that as the claim being  more  likely  than not to be successful. I think its fair to say 
that a successful case would include one where theres a reasonable chance of recovering 
money from the other side.
Ms T says at the point she contacted Great Lakes she only wanted a corrective  letter  from 
solicitors to her builders and believes that might have resolved the issue.  But of course its 
possible it wouldnt have done so. And any cover  under her policy  is only available where the 
reasonable prospects clause is satisfied. Taking  into account the wording of that term I 
think its fair Great Lakes  considers  prospects  on the basis the case  does proceed to court  
and seeks a legal assessment on that basis. But I do agree with Ms T that should  be based 
on the information that would have been  available  in February 2018 - and not the position  as 
it was two years later. 
The assessment its obtained  does appear  to take into account the current  financial standing 
of the builders which may not reflect the position as it was in February 2018. So Great  Lakes 
will need  to seek a revised opinion on prospects based on the position when the claim 
should have been logged.  If that revised  opinion finds a claim would  have had both 
reasonable prospects of success and recovery Great Lakes will also need to obtain legal 
advice on what settlement Ms T would likely have obtained if the claim had been pursued at 
that point and pay that amount to her. Ms T has also referred to consequential  loss she 
thinks shes incurred as a result of what Great Lakes got wrong (for example costs in paying 
for alternative accommodation). So thats  something  an assessment should also take into 
account. 
I appreciate Ms T has also been  caused distress  and inconvenience because  her claim was 
turned down. This was obviously a difficult time for her when she was having significant 
problems at her own property and having to deal with a number of different parties in an 
attempt to get this sorted  out. So I think being wrongly told her claim wasnt covered 
because of the policy limit on contract claims will have been particularly upsetting for her. 
And that will have been  compounded by the further  problems when Great Lakes said she 
didnt have a policy at all. In recognition of the impact of that on her I think Great Lakes 
should pay her £250.  
Ref: DRN66555993putting things  right
In order to put things  right Great Lakes will need  to:
Seek a revised  opinion on the prospects of success of Ms Ts claim based  on the 
information that would have been available at the time this was made  in February  2018;
If that revised opinion  finds  the claim would have had reasonable prospects of success  
(and recovery) obtain legal advice on what settlement Ms T would likely have obtained 
(and been paid) if the claim had been  pursued and pay that amount to her; 
Consider as part of that assessment the consequential losses Ms T says shes incurred 
and pay her any amounts  she wouldnt have incurred but for what Great Lakes got 
wrong; 
Pay Ms T £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes been caused by 
what Great Lakes got wrong; 
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. In summary  Ms T said:  
There had been repeated errors made by Great Lakes and she was given inaccurate 
information about whether or not she actually had a policy.  She believes she was 
deliberately misled and this made  what was already a stressful situation much worse;  
At the point when  the claim should  have been assessed she wasnt  seeking recovery  of 
funds as the claim at that time was a demand for payment from her. It was only later that 
an expert witness report concluded she was owed money. And she thought  it possible a 
solicitors letter might have had some impact;
The company  which arranged legal expenses cover didnt carry out proper checks  on the 
builder she employed  meaning that insurance cover that should have been in place 
wasnt. 
Great Lakes provided  a revised prospects  opinion  from a legal executive which  said 
assessing the claim on the basis  of the information available in February 2018 wouldnt have 
changed their advice about  prospects and recovery. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms T feels Great Lakes deliberately misled her. But I dont need  to 
determine that because ultimately its not in dispute  that, for whatever reason,  it got things 
wrong. And I accept  that will have  caused Ms T unnecessary distress at what was in itself an 
extremely difficult time. I appreciate it will have been  particularly upsetting  to seek  assistance 
from her legal expenses  policy  only to be wrongly  told she didnt have cover in place. But I 
did take those  points into account when  reaching my view on what  the appropriate  level of 
compensation would be. On balance I still feel a payment  of £250 is the right amount here. 
Ref: DRN66555994And while I appreciate  Ms T was initially only wanting a solicitors letter  to send to the 
builders, as I said in my provisional decision,  taking into account the policy wording  I do think 
it fair Great Lakes considers prospects  on the basis the claim does proceed to court.  
It has now produced a revised  opinion on that. However, that doesnt seem to take into 
account that when Ms T contacted Great Lakes she was seeking  to defend a claim against 
her rather  than take action against  the builders. So Great Lakes  will need to ask for further 
comment on whether that makes a difference and provide the revised  opinion  to Ms T. 
If that revised opinion  finds  the claim would have had reasonable prospects of success  then 
Great Lakes will need to obtain legal advice on what outcome Ms T would likely have 
obtained if cover had been  provided  and whether shes suffered a loss because it wasnt.  
And if she has it will need to pay that amount to her. 
Great Lake should  also consider as part of that assessment  the consequential losses Ms T 
says shes incurred and pay her any amounts she wouldnt  have incurred  but for what Great  
Lakes got wrong.  And it will in any case need  to pay her £250.  
If the revised  prospects opinion remains unfavourable to Ms T if shes  able to provide a 
different opinion from a qualified  lawyer  then, in line with our normal approach,  Great Lakes 
should pay to obtain a barristers opinion on prospects to provide  finality. 
I know Ms T is also concerned  about  the actions of the company who arranged the legal 
expenses cover and the checks they carried out on her builder. But that isnt something  
Great Lakes is responsible for. So shell need  to raise her concerns with the company 
involved if she hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what  Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6655599