K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) gave  her an 
unfair settlement figure for her loan when she asked  to pay it off early.  She felt they were 
asking her to pay too much, bearing  in mind she was already half way through her loan. 
Miss F considers that 118 118 Money preloaded the interest  with the aim of dissuading her 
from settling the loan early.
background
Miss F took out a loan with 118 118 Money in April 2017 for £3,549.48, repayable over two 
years. The amount of interest she had to pay over the term was £3,082.68, making a total of 
£6,632.16. The annual rate of interest  (APR) was 99.9%, and the monthly  payment  was 
£276.34 per month.
After shed made the first 12 payments Miss F asked  to pay off her loan early, and she 
received a settlement quote of £2,591.10.  She was surprised to see this because  she 
thought it would be less. The amount quoted was based on an outstanding balance  of 
£3,316.08, less an interest  rebate  of £724.98 for making early repayment. Because  Miss F 
was attempting  to settle all her financial affairs at this time, she felt she had no choice but to 
pay the settlement  figure. However,  Miss F makes  it clear that this action shouldnt be taken 
as her agreement with the settlement.
Miss F brought her complaint to us after 118 118 Money reaffirmed they had calculated the 
settlement figure correctly. They referred  Miss F to the terms and conditions of her loan to 
provide assurance  that they did give her the right settlement figure. But Miss F says she 
feels the terms didnt  make it clear enough  that the loan interest would be so significant  in 
the first 12 months.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, because  she concluded that 
118 118 Money had acted  correctly when quoting and settling the loan early.  She was 
satisfied they had used the appropriate calculation, in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the loan and in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Miss F disagreed with the outcome and wanted  her complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Fs loan falls under the rules of the Consumer Credit (Early  Settlement) Regulations  
2004. Her loan agreement  explains what would  happen if she wanted to repay it early, which 
is in accordance with the rules set out in the regulations.
I appreciate that Miss F was expecting  to be quoted a settlement figure  that was less than 
provided by 118 118 Money, and that she felt it would have been  fairer for the interest 
element of the loan to have been  divided equally over two years.
Loans are generally  repaid by regular  instalments,  most  often monthly  just as Miss Fs loan 
was arranged. Each instalment is made  up of some of the amount originally borrowed and 
Ref: DRN64454772some of the interest. But although the monthly loan repayments are fixed, in the earlier 
stages of the loan more  of each monthly payment  goes on paying the interest.  This is 
because its calculated based on the outstanding balance, which  is higher  at the start. As 
further payments  are made, the balance reduces and so does the amount of interest  with 
more of each  monthly payment going  to the repayment of the amount originally borrowed.
I can see why Miss F feels the way she does, because she has mentioned making early 
repayments on previous  loans.  Its more likely  than not, however, that the providers of those 
loans would have  applied the same  approach  as 118 118 Money when calculating an early  
repayment. On this occasion,  the amount Miss F was repaying was amplified by a high rate 
of interest (the APR of 99.9%) and the added charge  of 58 days of interest, which  
118 118 Money include when the term of a loan is over 12 months  and repaid early.  I would 
have expected this to have been  set out more clearly by 118 118 Money, but given what 
Miss F has said,  I dont think that clearer information  would  have made a difference to her 
decision to proceed  with the loan in the first place.
I understand and accept  why Miss F hadnt anticipated the total cost of taking this action, 
and why she feels 118 118 Money acted  unfairly.  However, for the reason Ive explained, its 
not correct to say that interest  is apportioned equally in each monthly  repayment.  Having 
looked carefully at what happened,  Im satisfied that 118 118 Money  did correctly apply the 
terms and conditions when settling Miss Fs loan.
It follows from this that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Nader Kamel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6445477