K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr R are unhappy  that Allianz  Insurance Plc recorded  an incident on their motor  
insurance record even  though they didnt make  a claim  for some minor damage to their car. 
background
Mrs and Mr R had some minor damage  to their car and they enquired with their broker as to 
whether it was worth claiming for it on Mr Rs Allianz  policy. Mrs R is a named driver on the 
policy. As they were  advised the cost of repair was less than their excess they decided  not to 
make a claim. Theyre unhappy that Allianz  then wrote to them saying the claim had been  
settled. They  want this claim  removed  from their record. 
Allianz said in its final response that Mrs and Mr Rs broker  advised it of an incident but it 
said Mrs and Mr R didnt want to discuss what had happened. It therefore closed the claim. 
Although they didnt  make a claim this will remain on their record  as there was an incident. It 
will not affect their no claims discount  and it will contact them  and reopen  the claim if a third 
party claim is received.
Our investigator felt his complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said Mrs and Mr R contacted  their 
broker and it sent Allianz  a first notification about  the incident.  But it said they wouldnt  
discuss any details. The terms and conditions of the policy  say that Allianz must be told of 
any incident whether  or not a claim is made.  Allianz  then contacted Mr R and later spoke to 
Mrs R who eventually confirmed it was a minor  scratch and they wouldnt be claiming. As the 
cause of the damage wasnt  disclosed  Allianz  couldnt delete the entry  in case  a third party  
claim is received. And although the claim  was closed  the incident  remains recorded. Allianz 
hasnt done anything wrong  in recording what has happened. 
Mr R remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says they dont feel 
they can honestly say in future that they made a claim. They  only asked for advice. This 
shouldnt have been logged as a claim.  They are happy for the request for advice to be 
noted but want the claim removed from their record.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
The policy makes clear  that an incident  must be reported to Allianz  whether or not a claim is 
being made. Here  the brokers told Allianz of the reporting of the damage to the vehicle  and 
Allianz opened a claim. It contacted Mr and Mrs R and says they didnt disclose what had 
happened. But they did confirm they didnt want to make  a claim. As a result Allianz closed 
the claim and said it would reopen it if a third party subsequently makes a claim.  
Here Allianz  wasnt given an explanation of how the damage to the vehicle was caused.  In 
the absence of full details  I think Allianz was entitled  to consider this as a claim as there  was 
always the possibility  of a claim being made  by  a third party  in the future,  even if one hadnt  
been made at that point and even  though  Mrs and Mr R had said they werent  claiming on 
the policy.
Ref: DRN61124812Consequently, on the information  available to it, I dont think  Allianz acted  unfairly by 
recording this as a claim which it has subsequently  closed. And even if more information had 
been made available from the start this would still have been  recorded as an incident.  
Taking everything into account  I dont think Allianz has done  anything wrong or treated Mrs 
and Mr R unfairly. And I dont think I can now fairly or reasonably  require Allianz to change  
what it has recorded on Mrs and Mr Rs insurance history  as theyd like.
Mr R says Allianz has falsified information  but that isnt something I can consider in this 
complaint as it wasnt included in the original complaint  to Allianz. If he remains  unhappy  
about this he must  therefore raise the issue with Allianz in the first instance.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs and Mr Rs strength of feeling and frustration, I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6112481