K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) renewed his car insurance policy  
when he asked it not to. 
background 
Mr B received a renewal  invitation  from UKI in August 2018. A few days later he emailed UKI 
to say hed bought a car insurance policy elsewhere and didnt want to renew his policy  with 
UKI. 
UKI didnt  acknowledge or reply to Mr Bs email. A week before the renewal  date  in 
September 2018  UKI sent Mr B policy documents and thanked  him for renewing his policy.
Mr B emailed UKI again on receipt  of the policy documents. He again asked UKI not to 
renew his policy. But a few days later UKI sent Mr B documents for additional breakdown  
cover which UKI had also renewed.  
On 15 September  2018 Mr B complained to UKI. It had taken the yearly premium  for both 
the car insurance  policy and breakdown policy from Mr Bs card.  
Mr B didnt receive an acknowledgement or reply to his letter  of complaint. So a week  later 
he wrote  to UKI again. 
On 28 September  2018 UKI replied  to Mr Bs complaint. It apologised for failing to act on his 
instructions and paid him compensation of £25 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
UKI confirmed it had cancelled Mr Bs policy.
However, Mr B had to contact UKI again because it refunded only part of the premium  it 
owed him to his card.
In October  2018 UKI apologised to Mr B for its delay  in refunding the full amount. And it 
apologised for failing to issue its cheque for £25 compensation as promised in September 
2018. For the additional distress and inconvenience  it caused,  UKI increased the 
compensation it paid Mr B by a further £25. So it paid Mr B a total compensation sum of £50.
Mr B felt the compensation amount UKI paid was derisory. He asked us to look at his 
complaint. 
The adjudicator felt UKI should increase the compensation it paid Mr B to £150 to reflect the 
inconvenience UKI had caused.
UKI accepted the adjudicators findings.  Mr B didnt agree and would like an explanation as 
to how weve  reached this sum. Mr B says the compensation award of £150 is offensive.  He 
says it works out to be less than the minimum wage per hour for the time hes spent dealing 
with the matter. He believes the compensation award should  - by comparison - be 
considered against the hourly  wage  he earned before retirement.
As Mr B didnt agree,  the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN69870142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to Mr Bs complaint  isnt in dispute. So Ive focused on the remaining issue  
which is whether the level of compensation of £150 seems fair and reasonable in this case. I 
think it is and Ill explain why. 
Our website  explains  our approach to awarding  compensation.  The link is: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical_notes/distress-and-
inconvenience.htm
As the adjudicator explained,  it isnt our role to punish a business.  When things go wrong,  
we look at the impact  in each case which was over and above minor  inconvenience  in 
other words what we can all expect to a degree  in daily life.
I think Mr B was clearly caused  inconvenience  by having to contact  UKI after he told it he 
didnt want to renew his policy.  Its clear  that UKI failed  to deal with Mr Bs request not to 
renew his policy  and made a number of subsequent errors in failing  to act on his instruction, 
which was a straight forward one. I therefore  think UKI was unreasonable  to Mr B and its 
service was poor. 
I can see that Mr B was caused inconvenience  by having to contact UKI a number of times 
between September  and October 2018  by email and letter. In October 2018 UKI refunded 
the remainder of the premium it incorrectly took from Mr Bs card. And it apologised for the 
mistakes it made. So for the period of time involved and the overall inconvenience caused to 
Mr B, I think UKI should pay him a total of £150 compensation. I think  this is fair and 
proportionate in this case and in line with similar awards which we make. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr B a further £100 compensation in addition to the £50 its already paid him. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from any interest  it pays, it should  tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN69870143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6987014