K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her tyre and alloy 
wheel damage  cover.
background
Mrs B was sold the cover when she bought  a car in 2018. She says Pendragon didnt tell her 
the policy excluded  claims for wear  and tear, so she says it isnt fit for purpose.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. Mrs B disagrees  and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Pendragon recommended  the tyre and alloy wheel damage cover  to Mrs B so it needed to 
make sure it was right for her. It also needed  to give Mrs B enough clear information about  it 
for her to be able to make an informed decision about whether she wanted  to buy it.
The cover was sold in a meeting so I cant know how it was presented  to Mrs B. She says 
Pendragon didnt specifically say the policy excluded wear and tear. Pendragon says the 
policy documentation  makes it clear wear and tear is excluded.
I can see that, when  Mrs B bought the cover, she signed a demands  and needs statement 
saying she had no protection  for unexpected punctures or accidental  or malicious tyre or 
alloy wheel damage, and this was of concern to her. The statement goes on to say that, 
based on this information, Pendragon recommended she buy tyre and alloy wheel damage 
cover. 
Theres nothing in the demands  and needs  statement  Mrs B signed  to suggest the cover 
includes wear and tear. I think  its clear  from the statement  the policy covers claims arising 
from specific unforeseen events  such as punctures and malicious or accidental damage. 
And I should say that I think an exclusion for wear  and tear is standard  in insurance policies 
like the one Mrs B bought.
I can see the cover came  with a key facts document that states clearly wear and tear is 
excluded. But I dont  know  if Mrs B saw this before she bought the cover.  And, from what 
she says, it seems she didnt get the full policy document  which  also clearly sets out the 
wear and tear exclusion  until more than a month after she bought it.
But, all in all, the information Ive got isnt strong enough for me to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. 
Its possible things happened as she describes and it wasnt made  clear  to her wear  and tear 
was excluded. But, especially given the statement she signed, I think  its more  likely she was 
given clear enough information  about  it.
Ref: DRN69399702I should say that, if Mrs B decides she wants to cancel the cover, her policy says she can get 
a proportionate refund of her premium   although it also says shed have  to pay a £50 
administration fee.
Finally, when she last wrote to us, Mrs B mentioned some consumer rights legislation to 
support her view that the insurance  wasnt  fit for purpose. As Ive mentioned, most policies of 
this type exclude cover for wear  and tear. Theyre designed primarily to cover  unexpected 
and accidental events.  So although  I understand Mrs B is disappointed  she didnt have cover 
for wear and tear, I dont  think  this means  the policy wasnt generally fit for purpose.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939970