K820x#14Mr V says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr V bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a point of sale loan that he 
agreed to pay back over 48 months. He applied for the loan and PPI policy in store.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  the monthly repayment of Mr Vs loan 
agreement for up to 12 months  in the event  of Mr V being unable  to work due to accident,  
sickness and unemployment. In the event  of a successful claim on the life element of the 
policy it would repay the outstanding balance.
The policy cost £1.68 per month and the premium  would  continue to have to be paid in the 
event of a successful claim. 
At the time,  Mr V was employed as an engineer. He has told us he was entitled to 
redundancy pay and I also think its likely Mr V wouldve  been  entitled to statutory sick pay. 
Mr V has said he sustained  an injury  as a result  of an accident a few years before the policy  
was taken out. He also says he had an operation  in relation to a medical condition but this 
occurred many years after the policy was taken out.
Mr Vs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Vs representative says:
FICL  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr V wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Vs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means FICL should  have  told 
Mr V about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN68335202The common law duty of utmost good faith also means FICL should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr V and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr V received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Vs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN68335203The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the Code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller   its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, FICL was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not FICL  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of FICL. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Vs case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
FICL was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Vs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr V with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN68335204-Whether FICL gave  Mr V sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr V, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr V suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr V and FICL, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mr V know he had a choice?
FICL had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Ive seen  a copy of Mr Vs signed 
credit agreement. On it there is a section related to PPI labelled Payment Protection 
Insurance Application where Mr V has signed to say he wanted  the PPI. Theres  nothing  on 
the form to suggest  the PPI was compulsory  - in fact it said only sign if you want  cover. So 
if Mr V hadnt wanted the policy he couldve left this section blank. Taking  everything  into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Mr V knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take 
it out without undue pressure. 
did FICL provide  advice?
Both FICL and Mr V agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means FICL 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr V. Instead,  it had to give him sufficient,  
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way  the main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr V was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr V was unable 
to work through accident, sickness and unemployment) and of the costs.  Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr V would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. I also note the 
section on the credit agreement labelled Payment Protection Insurance application  sets out 
the monthly cost of the policy.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  FICL gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr V agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think FICL  gave Mr V sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN68335205I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Vs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Vs. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Vs representative considers  to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr V about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Vs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. Whilst I cannot be certain  what a court would say  
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr V has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on FICL. 
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Mr V? To what extent  did Mr V suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr V. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr V suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr V would have 
still taken out the policy,  had FICL done things properly. 
Mr V says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr V had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr V chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr V thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr V has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr V was given about the monthly  cost on his credit agreement  was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy such  as limitations and exclusions  
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Ref: DRN68335206Im also not persuaded FICL made  clear exactly what Mr V would get back in return in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Vs expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his repayments under  
the loan agreement)  were  significantly different  to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr V thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr V knew  about or should  have known about  or for which  he received advice, 
treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date 
of the policy;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr V 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr V be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job and any paid work which his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the loan.  
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr V pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr V from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Vs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Although Mr V says he sustained an injury as a result of an accident  he had some years  
before the policy was taken out, I dont  think better  information about the pre-existing 
medical condition  exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this because based  
on everything Ive seen it seems that the chances of Mr V thinking hed need  to claim 
because of any condition  related to this injury were  low and, on balance, I think  that its more  
likely than not that that Mr V would still have wanted to be covered for all of the other 
reasons why he might be unwell and unable to work - for potentially a lot longer.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr V might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr V 
from taking out the policy,  Mr V, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN68335207If Mr V had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do his own job, a 
similar job and any paid work  which his experience,  education or training reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would have  done.  
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr V was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
FICL may not have told Mr V that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month month 
period. This may have  differed from what h expected and might have hoped for, but from 
what hes told us, he had limited other  means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr V would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly loan payments would have been  of benefit to him and would help him manage 
the consequences should he be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the policy.  
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr V would  still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what it is likely he thought  he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage 
the consequences were Mr V made  redundant, or unable to work through the accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr V would have  taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Vs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr V would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr V 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr V believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN68335208Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr V in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  whilst  I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude FICL  should pay Mr V compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr V thinks FICL  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
FICLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why FICL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  FICL gave  Mr V, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Vs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find FICL negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr V and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that FICL had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr V in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6833520