K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited handled his motor  insurance claim 
unfairly. 
Mr Rs been represented  during the claim and the complaint. For ease of reading  Ive 
referred to the actions  of the representative  as being those of Mr R. 
background
In December 2018 Mr Rs parked car was damaged. A car parked nearby showed damage 
he felt was consistent with having caused  that to his own. He passed the details on to his 
insurer, Admiral.  That other car was also insured  by Admiral. So it contacted  the owner. He 
admitted causing  the damage. Mr Rs car was then repaired  by Admiral. It was recorded as 
non-fault for Mr R with no cost recorded against his policy. 
The other cars owner later said he didnt cause the damage  hed thought  Admiral had 
been asking him about a different incident  that he was responsible for. Admiral accepted 
this. It said that meant the claim cost could  no longer be recorded  against that persons 
policy. Instead the cost of repairs, about £430,  would be recorded against Mr Rs. 
Mr R complained. He said Admiral was responsible for the other cars owner incorrectly  
accepting responsibility.  Hed only agreed to Admiral  doing the repairs  because  it wouldnt be 
recorded against his policy. Instead  he would have organised himself. He pointed  out that had 
that happened the incident would have been recorded as notification only. But now the claim 
will increase  his future insurance premiums. So he feels Admirals caused  him to lose out 
financially. Admiral didnt  accept it was to blame.  But it sent Mr R £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R didnt accept Admirals response,  so he came to this service. He didnt accept our 
Investigators recommended resolution.  So an Ombudsman considered  the complaint. He 
issued a provisional decision. In it he explained  why he didnt intend  to make Admiral  do 
anything differently. He said there had been an unfortunate  and unusual set of 
circumstances. He felt Admiral wasnt responsible for what  happened,  but had acted 
reasonably to minimise  the impact  on Mr R. He also asked Mr R and Admiral if they had any 
comments or information to provide before he issued a final decision. 
That Ombudsman is no longer at this service. As hes unable  to issue a final decision the 
complaint has come  to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Admiral 
do anything differently.
Neither Admiral or Mr R responded to the provisional decision. So I dont have any additional 
information to consider.  
I agree  with the findings in the provisional decision. Admiral and Mr R have had an 
opportunity to respond to those. So Im not going to repeat them here in detail.
Ref: DRN68989432Ive thought about the various  points Mr Rs made.  But ultimately it was an unfortunate 
coincidence that resulted in the other  cars owner  incorrectly and temporarily  accepting  
responsibility for the damage.  I havent seen enough  to make me think Admiral was to blame for 
what happened. And its acted fairly  and reasonably  since. It hasnt charged Mr R the policy 
excess, its kept the claim as non-fault and its said Mr Rs no claims discount wont be affected. 
The repairs  cost more  than a quote  Mr R received. That doesnt mean Admiral did anything  
wrong. Ive no reason  to believe it inflated  the cost, for example. 
Its reasonable for Admiral to record the cost of the claim against Mr Rs policy - it hasnt 
recovered what it spent.  I can understand why Mr R might feel this is unfair. He didnt make  
a mistake. But I can only reasonably require Admiral to do something to put matters right if I 
feel it made a mistake  but I dont think it did. 
Admiral says it paid Mr R £50 as a gesture of good  will. That seems reasonable to me. So 
Im not making it do anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Admiral  Insurance Company Limited do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6898943