K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the handling of a claim made under his central heating insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2019 part of which is copied below: 
Mr W made a claim under his policy  on 28 February 2018 when his boiler  stopped working, 
as a pipe had frozen. 
Mr W made an appointment on line for British Gas to attend the following day. However,  
shortly after booking the appointment, a pipe also burst,  causing  water to leak through  a 
wall. He therefore had to turn off the mains water supply. Mr W says he added  this to the 
online details about the claim. 
Mr W waited in all day but at 4pm, British  Gas called him to say it could not attend as it was 
too busy. It told Mr W it could not attend for another seven  days.  Mr W therefore arranged for 
his own contractor to come out straight away to fix it. He says it required  three  attendances 
to repair, as the pipes thawed out further  damage was found. 
British Gas accepts that it should have attended  to Mr Ws claim sooner than it did but says it 
had to prioritise vulnerable customers, due to the extreme  weather conditions at the time. It 
offered £30 compensation for that, £30 for a missed  appointment,  £20 for mistakes in the 
final response. British  Gas also said it will consider reimbursing the costs  of repair,  if Mr W 
sends an invoice.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He didnt think it should be upheld,  as he 
considered British Gass  offer was reasonable. He didnt  consider that any further payment 
was warranted  until Mr W could produce  an invoice for the work done.  
Mr W doesnt accept the investigators  assessment and has made a number of submissions 
in his original  compliant  and in response to the adjudicator, which  Ive summarised below:   
He paid his premiums but when he tried to claim British Gas didnt  help him, the 
policy was therefore mis-sold and he should have his premiums  back  for the entire 
five years he paid for the policy. 
He had to take a days holiday  to wait for the British Gas engineer  and wants 
compensation for having to use annual  leave for this. 
He understands  that British Gas needs to prioritise vulnerable customers  but it wasnt 
fair to him to move  his appointment to a week later,  he should have kept his place in 
the system, and all customers should  have been moved back  a day. 
He was pushed  to the back of the queue but he paid his premiums and British Gas 
didnt deliver its part of the bargain.  
He was without  any water supply at all not just hot water.  This meant he was also 
vulnerable in any event, as he had children in the house. But British Gas failed to 
establish this simply  asking if he had another source of heating. He told them  he had 
a fire but he doesnt use this. 
The error in logging the claim  and not logging properly  that he was without any 
mains water  supply and not just with no heating or hot water  the representative was 
made aware and understood  he had no water supply at all but they didnt have 
Ref: DRN63613002capacity to deal with the claim. And so it was deliberately logged  in a way that meant  
he did not get the cover he paid for. 
He called builders  that had done some work for him previously.
Under insurance law and contract  law, the breach of contract by British  Gas should 
mean his premiums are refunded. His complaint has been treated as a complaint 
about a missed appointment, rather than a mis-selling complaint. He didnt ask for 
compensation for the missed  appointment
He is also unhappy with the way the complaint was handled. 
As the adjudicator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has bene  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says his policy was mis-sold to him  he had taken it out to provide cover  for 
emergencies such as this but in reality  he was not insured, as the policy  didnt cover  him 
when he needed  urgent help. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration and dissatisfaction when British Gas was unable to help 
him at the very time he needed the policy. It was for help in emergency situations  such as 
this that he took out the policy.  However, having  said that, I dont  agree  that the failure to 
attend within a reasonable time constitutes  a breach of contract such  that would render the 
contract void and the premiums refunded.  Mr W was covered in exchange for that premium 
paid. The fact that when he made this claim, it was not dealt with as it should have been 
doesnt alter that. I dont  therefore intend  to ask British Gas to refund the premiums.  I will 
however, consider what should be done  to put right what  went  wrong (i.e. the failure to 
respond to this claim promptly enough).  
There is no guaranteed response time in the policy but we would  expect British  Gas to 
respond to call outs within a reasonable time, taking account of the nature of the call out and 
the circumstances of the policyholder. It is therefore  appropriate (as Mr W accepts)  that it 
prioritise vulnerable  policyholders. However,  I also agree that as Mr W didnt have any water 
supply when he reported the matter  to British Gas, it should have prioritised his claim. It 
failed to do so. I am not persuaded that the claim call was deliberately logged incorrectly to 
avoid providing  cover, however.
I can appreciate Mr Ws point that it would have been fairer for him to have been the next 
customer seen, after his original appointment was cancelled but I have no authority to direct 
how British Gas operate its appointments system.  I can only award compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience actually experienced as a result of something it has done wrong. 
It wasnt reasonable for Mr W to have  to wait a week  without mains water. But Mr W did 
resolve the situation himself. I acknowledge he shouldnt have had to do this but it does 
mean that he was not without a working boiler or without a water  supply  for long.  
However, it is appropriate that British Gas compensate Mr W for the trouble caused in 
having to arrange that himself and the cost of those  repairs.  However,  it wants an invoice 
from a Gas Safe engineer before doing  so.
Ref: DRN63613003Mr W has not been able to provide an invoice but he has provided  some evidence of the cost 
(£290 for the repair of the pipework and boiler). In correspondence to British Gas Mr W said 
that:
The work  undertaken was for a frozen water pipe that required a section  of plasterboard to 
be removed and made good.  When the pipe was repaired initially  the water supply was 
switched back on but as the pipe defrosted over the following days  the pipe had split in 2 
further places  needing 2 further call outs.  These were not initially evident. In addition  the 
pipe from the boiler pump had frozen which had caused a leak of water onto the electrical  
supply and this had fused the supply to the boiler  meaning we had no heating.
Some of these repairs may not be covered  by the contract such  as the plastering but the 
costs I have been given are as follows:
£100 emergency call out fee
removal of plasterboard  wall and replaced plastic pipe included  in above
Refit and plastering of wall £70
second and third emergency call out charged at £30 each
Boiler time costed to defrost  pipe from boiler  pump  2 hrs labour (includes  time costed work 
as above at £30 per hour)
Total cost £290.
Mr W said that this done  as part of a lot of work the contractors were  doing for him and the 
costs were included  in a large invoice. They were also not Gas Safe registered but it 
appears they were  not working on the boiler  in any event. 
It seems  to me that Mr W has provided  a reasonable explanation why he cant  provide  an 
invoice. He was covered  for this claim  but British Gas didnt carry out any repairs. The 
amount he says he was charged doesnt  seem  unreasonable (and the policy  does cover 
making good  so any filling in a hole made to gain access and or making a flat surface but 
not redecorating). 
Overall therefore, while  it is not unreasonable for British Gas to have asked  for an invoice 
and normally I would  agree this should be provided, it seems to me it should pay Mr W the 
£290 for the repairs.  
Mr W says he didnt ask for compensation for the missed appointment. In my opinion, it is 
apparent from his first complaint letter that he did but in any case, it has been offered. British  
Gas should have attended  the day he reported  the claim. I agree that the £80 offered for this 
and the other issues is reasonable.  
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British  Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £290  
to reimburse him for the repairs,  in addition to the £80 it has already offered. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted considered. 
British Gas has not responded. 
Ref: DRN63613004Mr W doesnt accept my provisional decision.  He has made  a number of points in response, 
which Ive summarised below: 
He still believes that British Gas breached his policy  agreement  and doesnt 
understand how I can conclude otherwise.  
When he made the claim, his house  was uninhabitable as it had no water. By saying 
that it would  take seven days  to respond, it effectively was saying it would not 
provide  you with the cover in line with our agreement [and] they knew  I would have 
to get the repairs  completed by someone else. Therefore it should refund the 
premiums and pay compensation  distress and inconvenience. 
The fact it redirected services to vulnerable customers is not relevant. 
The payment  offered  is too low. The figures he gave regarding  the work required 
were provided by the builders father, but the builder has said it would be at least 
double that. He takes responsibility for this error and suggests that the payment due 
to him should be based on the cost to British Gas of three  emergency  call outs, plus 
an estimate for the work involved.  
This would still mean British Gas would profit from the situation, given what  costs  it 
would have incurred  if it had honoured the claim. 
With regard to the compensation, I proposed, this is extremely flimsy. He has found 
an article on the internet, which says the average payment from British Gas for a 
missed appointment  was £90; and he has also studied this services examples of 
awards made and this shows  much higher payment  than he has been offered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt state that the policy agreement had not been breached.  I explained that I didnt think 
it had been breached such  that it was effectively  void and that the premiums should  be 
reimbursed.
Mr W was not provided with the service that he was entitled to expect from his agreement 
with British Gas. Given this, Mr W should  be put as far as possible back  into the position  that 
he would  have been in had the breach not occurred. This means that British Gas should 
reimburse the cost of the repairs that he incurred and compensate him for the actual distress 
and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr W told us the repairs  cost £290. He has not provided any other convincing evidence  of 
these cost and has not been  able to provide an invoice, as he says it was included in other 
work. However, he now says that it cost twice this and suggests that British Gas pay him the 
equivalent it would have cost it to attend  three appointments. Given there  is no documentary 
evidence of the actual costs and that he has previously put these at £290,  I do not agree that 
it would  be reasonable to require British Gas to pay more than that.
British Gas didnt  attend when it first said it would and Mr W was without water  but this was 
resolved promptly (albeit by his own builders). I have considered all the evidence of what   
happened and I still consider that the £80 already offered is reasonable to reflect the missed  
appointment and other issues. This is in line with other awards made by this service  in 
similar scenarios.  
Ref: DRN63613005my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £290 to 
reimburse him for the repairs,  in addition to the £80 it has already offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361300