K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) said it would close a current  account he 
held with his ex-wife but failed to do so. He thinks this enabled his ex-wife  to be able to 
withdraw funds he had deposited from another  linked joint account. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 11 January  2019.  A copy of it is attached  
and it forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on upholding the complaint and 
asking Nationwide  to refund the £1,000 Mr M had lost, with the addition of interest.  I asked 
Mr M and Nationwide  to let me know if there  was anything  else they wanted me to consider.
Nationwide agreed  to pay Mr M according to my provisional decision and Mr M accepted my 
findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Nationwide and Mr M agreed with the decision, I see no reason  to change my 
provisional findings. Im therefore upholding Mr Ms complaint, for the same reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society and require it to pay him the 
£1,000 that was transferred from the joint account  with the addition  of 8% simple interest 
from the date Mr M paid it into the account  to the date of my decision. 
Nationwide has already paid Mr M £350  for the inconvenience caused which I think  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61704062copy of provisional decision.
complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) said it would close a current  account  he held 
with his ex-wife but failed  to do so. He thinks this enabled his ex-wife to be able to withdraw funds he 
had deposited from another linked joint account. 
background
Mr M had three accounts  with Nationwide. A joint current account opened with his now ex-wife in 
2007, a joint e-savings account opened  in October 2009, and a sole account opened in March  2011.  
Mr M says at some point in 2009 he and his wife split up. Nationwide has confirmed  it blocked  the 
joint current account in 2014 because it was made aware  of a marital  dispute but it couldnt  close the 
account without both parties  consent. 
In 2017 Mr M contacted Nationwide  about a problem  with his sole account. During the conversation 
Nationwide said it was now possible to close the joint current account if it contacted Mrs M and she 
didnt respond. It would  then close the account and split the proceeds. But Nationwide  didnt close  the 
account as it said it would.
Mr M contacted  Nationwide in March 2018 to re-register  for online banking.  Following this registration 
he paid £1,000 into the e-savings account.  His ex-wife transferred the money  to another account on 4 
April 2018. 
Mr M complained to Nationwide. He said hed never been told the e-savings account  was held jointly  
and Nationwide said it would be closing down  his joint current account  so he couldnt understand why 
his ex-wife had been able to transfer  the money. 
Nationwide said it had sent him annual  statements which showed  the e-savings  account was held 
jointly. It did accept that it hadnt closed the joint current account  as promised  and has paid Mr M a 
total of £350 for not closing his account when it should have  and also for poor communication. 
Dissatisfied Mr M referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt  be upheld. She said that 
Nationwide had made Mr M aware that the account was in joint names through  the statements it sent 
him each year. 
She also said that not closing the joint current account wouldnt  have stopped Mr Ms ex-wife 
withdrawing money from the e-savings account.  She said Nationwide hadnt  done anything wrong  by 
allowing her to withdraw the money as she was legally  entitled  to withdraw  funds from a joint account.
Mr M disagreed as he believed Nationwide had never made him aware that the e-savings account 
was in joint names.  And, in any event, he assumed any joint accounts  would  have been closed 
together. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Nationwide said Mr M was made aware  the e-savings account was held jointly from the statements he 
received and because it referred to the account using a different account number. The terms and 
conditions of the online e-savings account stated it was an online only instant access  account  linked  
to the current account which meant The account must be opened  and held in the same  names as 
the Nationwide current account used to open it. So Im satisfied that Nationwide did make Mr M 
aware the account  was held jointly.  I also think  Mr M would have been aware  of that because  he 
didnt use the account  after he and Mrs M had split up.
Ref: DRN61704063But when Mr M spoke  with Nationwide in 2017 about  his sole account I think  he was confused and 
frustrated over which accounts were joint and which  were  held in his name, especially  as hed been 
unable to use his joint current account for many years because it was blocked. At that point 
Nationwide told Mr M it would be able to close  the joint account. So, I can understand why Mr M 
believed he could safely use the e-savings account, which remained open,  after he was told the joint 
accounts would be closed.
Nationwide was made  aware of a marital split in 2014. But it couldnt close any accounts  without both 
Mr and Mrs Ms consent. But during the call in 2017 Nationwide suggested it could now close Mr Ms 
joint account  as there hadnt been any transactions on the account  for 24 consecutive months. 
Nationwide has said it expects an account  holder to give specific details  of any accounts it might want  
to close  in the event of any dispute. But Mr M didnt request any accounts  to be closed at this point,  it 
was a suggestion from Nationwide when Mr M contacted it about  his sole account.  
So Ive thought about this very carefully. It had been sometime since Mr Ms joint and sole accounts  
had been opened, and Im satisfied that Mr M  during the telephone call, was confused about  which 
accounts were joint and which were sole. And I think that Nationwide  as the expert in this situation,  
should have confirmed with Mr M which accounts he wanted to close.  And I cant see that it made  Mr 
M aware of that option. I think it was reasonable for Mr M to have assumed Nationwide  would  have 
included the savings account within that recommendation and I think  I would have expected it to do so 
as well. 
I say that because the terms and conditions of the savings account made  it clear  that the account  was 
linked to the current account  and that Withdrawals  can only be made to a FlexAccount held by at 
least one of the e-Savings holder(s).  So the proceeds of the account could  only have  been paid into 
a current  account owned by (at least one) of the joint account holders. 
I think  its fair for Mr M to have assumed that Nationwide would have treated these  accounts in the 
same way, especially  as the savings account was so closely linked to the joint current  account.  
Mr M said it was only when  Nationwide promised him it would close the joint accounts  and sort out his 
access to online banking that he deposited money in the e-savings account. And I can see thats what  
he did. I therefore think  he was entitled to trust Nationwide would not have put him into a position so 
that, when he made a payment into an account,  his ex-wife was able to transfer money  from it. 
I dont think Mr M would have paid money into an account if he suspected that could have happened, 
there was no need for him to have taken that risk. 
Nationwide said its paid Mr M a total of £350 for not closing the account  and for poor communication 
during the situation. I think thats a fair and reasonable sum for Nationwide to have paid for all the 
distress and inconvenience  Mr M suffered.  I wouldnt ask it to pay any more.  But I think that if 
Nationwide had closed  all the joint accounts,  as I think  it should have done,  then Mr M would be in a 
different situation. Ive not seen that there is a dispute that the money transferred in wasnt Mr Ms 
own money or any evidence to suggest that Mrs M was entitled to some or all of the money. So I think  
he would still have the funds  that he transferred  into the joint e- savings account which his ex-wife  
was able to transfer to another account.
my provisional  decision
So, for the reasons Ive given, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint  
against Nationwide  Building Society. Nationwide should put Mr M back  into the position he would be 
in now,  had he not transferred his funds, by refunding  the £1,000 with the addition  of 8% simple 
interest from the date Mr M paid it into the account to the date of my decision.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6170406