K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Ms C took out the store  card 
in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms C says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms C 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms C says she doesnt recall discussing the PPI so she assumes it was added  without 
her knowledge  or consent. But based  on the evidence Ive seen I think FICL made it 
clear that Ms C didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  Ive seen a copy  of the 
application form Ms C signed. In this there  is a tick in the box for PPI. And even if the box 
wasnt ticked by Ms C or the PPI hadnt been discussed prior to this; she signed the 
application form to show she consents  to the information included within it. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms C got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been including the information on the exclusions relating  to pre-existing 
medical conditions.  Ive seen that Ms C had a medical condition at the time of sale  and 
the policy specifically  excluded claims arising  from the type of condition  that Ms C had. 
But Ms C told us that this was a minor problem and it didnt stop her from going to work 
or going to the gym. So it seems like the condition was manageable at the time and I 
think its unlikely Ms C wouldve  felt like she needed cover for this condition. Therefore, I 
dont think better  information  about  this condition wouldve changed her mind about 
taking out the PPI.  
As Ive stated above, I think Ms C chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And  looking at her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN66163482FICL  couldve  have explained the costs better than it did. Compared to other PPI policies  
sold around the time, it was more expensive  but it would have covered 15% of what 
Ms C owed  on her store card if she successfully claimed. And it wouldve done  this until 
her credit  agreement ended, or she returned  to work, or the outstanding balance  at time 
of her claim  had been repaid, whichever is the earliest. Ms C had some sick pay and 
savings at the time, but the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than this wouldve lasted 
and in addition  to this. So these funds  couldve  been used for other expenses.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6616348