K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has handled her 
complaint about  disputed  transactions - which she says has had a negative  impact on her 
credit rating. 
background
On 19 September  2017, Mrs G complained  to Barclays  about several disputed transactions  
that had been made  on her credit card account.  Mrs G said she didnt recognise any of the 
transactions and asked  Barclays to investigate. The credit card account was blocked by 
Barclays and new cards were sent to Mrs G and her husband  who was an additional 
card-holder. 
On 9 November  2017, Mrs G contacted Barclays again to report fraud  on the replacement 
cards. Barclays investigated the disputed transactions  and declined  to offer Mrs G a refund 
as it felt that either Mrs G, or her husband, had made the transactions themselves. Mrs G 
didnt agree so she bought the complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  investigated the complaint  about the disputed  transactions and 
didnt uphold  it. He agreed with Barclays that it was more likely than not that Mrs G, or her 
husband, had made the transactions themselves. When our investigator  contacted  Mrs G to 
explain his findings,  he also provided her with some further information about the merchants 
the transactions had been paid to. Mrs G agreed  that she recognised  some  of the merchants 
and could now remember what  the payments were for. She agreed  that the transactions 
were most likely made by her and her husband and said she was happy  with the outcome 
reached. But she did wish to continue with her complaint about how Barclays  had handled 
her complaint, specifically, she said she was given some advice by Barclays  about  the 
payments she should make towards her credit card account whilst its balance  was in 
dispute. 
what Mrs G has said
Mrs G told us she initially complained to Barclays in September 2017 about the disputed  
transactions, but by April 2018, her complaint still hadnt been resolved. Frustrated with the 
lack of response from Barclays, she decided to withhold her monthly credit card repayments  
until she got a formal response  to her complaint. Mrs G hoped  that this would spur Barclays  
into issuing her with a satisfactory response. Mrs G withheld payments from December 2017  
to May 2018. 
Throughout this period,  Mrs G had various  telephone conversations  with Barclays.  And she 
has told us that at some point during  this time,  she was advised by Barclays to estimate  and 
pay towards anything  she felt was a genuine transaction. And so, she started making  
payments again  of various amounts. However, the payments she made  towards her 
outstanding balance were lower than the minimum payment that was due on the account. 
Because of this, the account attracted default  fees and large amounts of interest and 
Mrs Gs outstanding balance had soon exceeded her agreed credit  limit and she was unable  
to use the card. 
Barclays then reported that Mrs G wasnt making her monthly  minimum repayments  to her 
credit reference agencies and this had a negative impact on her credit rating  which fell by 
Ref: DRN64912542over 200 points and reduced her chances of being  accepted for future credit,  in particular, a 
mortgage she was hoping to apply for. 
Mrs G feels that it is Barclays  advice that has caused her to find herself in this position.  She 
says she was following  Barclays advice  to only pay towards what she felt was a genuine 
balance but this has now caused a fall in her credit  rating - which is having an on-going 
financial impact. Mrs G says when she realised her actions where having an impact on her 
credit rating, she began to repay the account, often making surplus  payments to reduce the 
balance. Mrs G wants Barclays to refund any interest that accrued  on her balance  alongside 
any default fees that were charged. She also wants  her credit rating amended. 
what Barclays has said
Barclays acknowledged that it took longer than it should have  done  to fully respond  to 
Mrs Gs initial complaint  and it offered her £275 in compensation in recognition  of this. But it 
also said it would never advise a customer to not make repayments towards their credit card 
account. And it should not now be responsible for Mrs Gs decision to refuse  to do so. Mrs G 
had an obligation  to make  the minimum repayment due on her account and this formed  part 
of the terms and conditions of her account  - which she agreed to when the account  was 
opened. 
Barclays recognised  that it may have told Mrs G she could  estimate and only pay towards 
what she felt was her genuine account balance, but even then, Mrs G had continued  to pay 
significantly less than the minimum payment due on her genuine credit card balance   
sometimes by hundreds of pounds. 
Having said the above, Barclays recognised that lots of interest and charges had now been 
applied to Mrs Gs outstanding credit card balance and that it would be difficult  for her now to 
reduce this balance  without  some  help. So, it offered her a six-month interest  free period  
where interest would  not be charged on the total credit card balance,  not just the disputed 
amount, so she could  get herself  back on track. This interest  free period was applied  to 
Mrs Gs credit card account between May 2018  and December 2018.
Mrs G didnt think this was a fair and reasonable outcome and so the case  was passed to 
one of our investigators  to consider  again.
what our investigator said
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld. He listened to 
recordings of all the calls that had taken place between Mrs G and Barclays whilst the 
complaint was on-going. There were eleven calls in total which took place between 
19 September 2017 and 1 May 2018. 
Having done so, our investigator concluded that it wasnt reasonable for Mrs G to have 
refused to make any repayments towards her credit card debt between  December  2017  and 
May 2018. She had a significant  genuine  balance on the account at this time, amounting to 
several thousand pounds,  and she had an obligation  to make repayments  towards  this debt 
 even if the remaining amount was in dispute. By not making her monthly repayments as 
agreed, Mrs G had broken the terms and conditions of her account. And this meant that 
Barclays was entitled to add fees and interest  to her account and report the lack of 
repayments to her credit reference agencies.
Ref: DRN64912543He also concluded  that there was no indication that Mrs G had been told she could estimate 
and only pay towards her genuine balance before 1 May 2018, when this was confirmed in a 
phone call with Barclays. And when this conversation took place, Barclays said she could do 
this until it had issued  its final response  letter on her complaint. Barclays  final response 
letter was received by Mrs G on 15 May 2018.  And so, Mrs G was entitled  to make 
estimated repayments  for 14 days - between 1 May and 15 May 2018. But Mrs G continued 
to pay considerably less than the minimum payment that wouldve been  due on her genuine 
balance even after this letter had been issued.  
Our investigator went on to say Barclays had an obligation to report  accurate credit 
information about the way Mrs G was managing her credit card account to credit reference 
agencies. And as the information it had recorded  about Mrs G appeared to be accurate at 
the time,  he didnt feel that Barclays had done anything  wrong.    
Mrs G didnt agree with what our investigator said. She responded to say:
It wasnt made clear to her that a minimum payment  was due after the final response  
letter was issued  because her complaint was yet to be resolved - she had decided to 
bring the complaint to our service. And so, in her mind, the investigation was still very 
much on-going. Nowhere in the final response  letter from Barclays  did it say she 
should now begin to make the minimum repayment  again.
She acknowledged that her monthly statements detailed that a minimum repayment  
was due, and they also detailed the amount due to be paid. But she didnt feel this 
was good enough.  She had told Barclays she wouldnt be making repayments until 
her complaint had been sorted  out and Barclays had failed to warn her of the 
repercussions of taking  such  action. 
If Barclays had responded to her complaint sooner, she wouldnt have threatened to 
withdraw her repayments at all. And if Barclays  had told her this course of action 
would affect her credit rating,  she wouldnt have done it.
If Barclays had put in writing what had been  agreed in the calls about not making the 
full minimum repayment until a final response  was issued,  she would have been 
aware she needed to make the full minimum repayment from 15 May 2018 onwards 
and there would have been  no confusion caused.
Overall, Barclays  had not communicated clearly  throughout the course of her 
complaint and this had resulted  in her credit rating being negatively  impacted. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out  
and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN64912544Barclays has sent us a copy of the terms and conditions that apply to Mrs Gs credit card 
account. On page one of the terms and conditions, under the heading monthly  repayment  it 
states:
Well send you a monthly payment statement to tell you what  the minimum amount you 
need to pay is and when the payment is due. You must  pay the at least  your minimum due 
amount in sterling by the due date shown on your statement every month.
The terms and conditions  then go on to state that a default fee for late payments of £12 will 
be charged for every missed or late payment. 
The terms and conditions  go on to clarify:  
All payments you make  to us must  be in Sterling, cover at least your minimum payment and 
arrive by the payment  due date every month. To help make  this as easy  as possible, your 
monthly statement  will tell you exactly how and when to make payments, so they reach us 
on time.
And then under the heading, Missed payments:
If you miss your minimum payment, well add a late fee to your account. If you miss a 
payment, the following  will also apply:
Your records with credit reference agencies may be affected, meaning  it may be harder or 
more expensive for you to borrow in the future. Missing payments could lead to legal action 
or bankruptcy proceedings.
Ive also looked  at Mrs Gs account  statements for the period in question.  Each monthly 
statement details the minimum  payment that is due on Mrs Gs account  each month  and the 
date the amount is due to be paid by, for example, Mrs Gs statement for July 2018 details 
that her minimum repayment  is £971.67 and its due by 1 August 2018. And the account  
statement issued in any given month  where Mrs G failed to make a minimum payment said 
the following:
you have failed to make a minimum repayment.  Failing to make  a minimum repayment can 
mean you have broken  the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us taking legal 
action against  you. It could  lead to you having to pay additional  costs  and make it more 
difficult for you to obtain credit in the future. 
The terms and conditions  Ive set out above  are fairly standard.  The obligation to meet a 
monthly repayment amount where a customer has had the benefit of spending the credit in 
question is generally  known. Mrs G has sent us a copy of her credit  report and its clear she 
has had lots of credit in the past.  And during one of the phone calls she has with Barclays 
she discusses how different interest  rates are applied to different types of transaction on the 
account. And so, Im satisfied its reasonable to conclude that Mrs G wouldve been aware at 
the time that she had an obligation  to meet  her monthly minimum repayments.  And having  
reviewed both the terms and conditions of her account and her credit card statements, Im 
satisfied that Mrs Gs obligations were clearly  set out  including the amount she needed to 
pay and when the amount was due. 
Ref: DRN64912545The terms and conditions  also make  clear what will happen if Mrs G were to miss a monthly  
minimum repayment. At no point in any of the call recordings that Ive listened to does 
Barclays say Mrs G doesnt need to make  a repayment whilst  her complaint about fraudulent 
transactions is being investigated. And I dont think the fact that Mrs G had an on-going 
complaint with Barclays meant Mrs G was dis-solved  of her responsibilities to repay her 
genuine credit  card balance. But Mrs G doesnt  make any repayments to the account  
between December 2017 and May 2018 despite having a genuine credit card balance  of 
several thousands of pounds. And so it appears to me that Mrs G chose not make  her 
monthly repayments whilst having  an ongoing  obligation  to do so  she had the benefit  of 
spending the credit on the account.  I appreciate that Mrs G was unhappy  with lack of 
response to her fraud  complaint, but this did not dissolve her of these obligations   
especially as the majority  of her balance was not in dispute. And Im satisfied if was clear 
what would  happen  if she took this course  of action. I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect Barclays to reiterate this every time Mrs G threatened to withhold  her repayments. 
Barclays also has an obligation to report accurate  information to credit  reference agencies 
about the way its customers are managing  their accounts. And so I dont think it has done  
anything wrong  here in reporting that Mrs G was failing to make  payments in line with the 
terms and conditions of her account  she wasnt. And Barclays was entitled to add interest  
and charges to the account  if Mrs G didnt meet her monthly repayments  as set out in its 
terms and conditions. 
Despite this, Barclays offered Mrs G a six-month interest free period on her total credit  card 
balance of several thousand  pounds. Barclays is entitled to charge interest in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account  if the customer has had the benefit of spending  the 
funds. And so Im satisfied this was a genuine  attempt to help Mrs G get herself back on 
track.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays  made clear what would happen if Mrs G did not maintain 
the minimum repayments on her credit  card account  and it was ultimately Mrs Gs decision 
to not make  these repayments. It follows that I dont  think Barclays  has acted unreasonably 
in reporting these missed  payments to credit  reference agencies and applying  interest  and 
charges to Mrs Gs account.  
from 1 May 2018 onwards
Ive listened to recordings of all the calls Barclays had with Mrs G whilst her complaint was 
on-going. Mrs G mentions  that she is refusing to make payments towards her outstanding  
debt until her complaint  is resolved on a number  of occasions. Barclays  advises it would not 
recommend this and, in a call that takes  place on 1 May 2018, Mrs G is told she can 
estimate and pay towards what she believes is her genuine balance. Barclays  tell Mrs G she 
can do this this until it issues its final response  letter because, at that point, the fraudulent 
amount will either be removed from her account  balance or she will be held liable and will 
need to repay the disputed amount alongside  her genuine balance  as part of her monthly 
repayments.  
Barclays final response letter is received by Mrs G on 15 May 2018. This letter  sets out that 
Barclays is satisfied that the transactions are genuine and will not be refunded. But Mrs G 
continues to pay less than the minimum payment  due on the account,  sometimes  less than 
half the amount  due despite the majority  of the balance not ever being in dispute at all. 
Ref: DRN64912546Ive thought carefully about what Mrs G has said about it not being made clear in the phone 
call that the agreement to pay an estimated amount was only in place until the final response  
letter was issued. But I dont agree.  I think it was made clear that this agreement  would only 
be in place until Barclays final response  letter was issued. And so it follows that from 
15 May 2018 onwards, Mrs G had an obligation to make  the full minimum repayment due on 
her monthly statement by the agreed  date. But Mrs G continued to pay significantly less. 
Mrs G has told us she hadnt realised  the agreement had ended and so had continued to 
estimate her minimum repayment  as she felt the dispute  was on-going.  But Im not 
persuaded that this is what was happening.  Ive looked at the payments Mrs G was making 
after 15 May 2018 and these repayments  were significantly less that the minimum payment 
that would  have been due even on her genuine balance.  For example, Mrs Gs monthly 
minimum repayment in her June statement is set out as £1,097.69  and Mrs G paid £300. 
Which would not amount to close to her minimum repayment on her genuine balance. It is 
hundreds of pounds less. This suggests to me that Mrs G was simply making nominal 
repayments that had no correlation to her genuine outstanding balance and were  well below 
the minimum payment  she was expected  to pay. And as Ive said above,  Barclays  has an 
obligation to report  accurate information to credit  reference agencies. And so I dont think  
Barclays has done anything wrong  here in reporting that this is what was happening on the 
account. It follows that I dont think it would be reasonable  to ask Barclays  to amend Mrs Gs 
credit file now.  
summary
Overall, I m satisfied it was Mrs Gs decision to not make any repayments towards her credit  
card account  between December 2017 and May 2018. Im also persuaded it was ultimately 
her decision  to not maintain her minimum repayments after Barclays final response letter 
was issued and this broke the terms and conditions of her account. For this reason, Barclays 
was entitled to add interest  and charges to her account  in-line with the terms and conditions  
she agreed to. And Barclays  had an obligation  to report how the account was being  
maintained to credit reference agencies. It follows that I dont think  Barclays has acted 
unreasonably when reporting  the activity on the account and I wont be asking for this to be 
amended. I also wont be asking Barclays to remove the charges and interest that accrued 
on her outstanding debt whilst he complaint was ongoing. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC. 
Ref: DRN64912547Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6491254