K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003.
background
Miss S took out a credit  card over the internet in 2003. At the same time she bought a PPI 
policy which  would have  paid 10% of her outstanding balance  at the point of claim each 
month for up to 12 months at a time if she wasnt able to work. It also provided life cover  for 
the balance.
Miss S said that she was a student at the time so the PPI was unsuitable for her and she 
wasnt eligible for it.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ss complaint thought that it shouldnt be upheld. Miss S 
disagrees, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Miss S doesnt dispute that she bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it. And from 
what this service knows about Capital Ones sales process at this time I think this is the 
case. The application was made on line and Miss S was given a choice to tick to take the 
PPI or not take the PPI. She couldnt have moved  through the credit card application 
screens without making a choice about it.
Miss S says she wasnt  eligible for the PPI because she was a student  at the time. But on 
her application  to Capital One she said she was working. When  we asked Miss S about this 
discrepancy she realised shed made a mistake and had, in fact, been  working  at the time of 
application. But her representatives said that she had been intending to become a student 
when she took out the policy, so it still wouldnt have been  right for her.
We asked Miss S several times  if she could  provide  evidence that at the point of application 
shed been intending to stop work, but she hasnt provided this. So I cant uphold her 
complaint on this point.
Capital One didnt give Miss S a personal  recommendation  about the PPI, so it didnt have to 
take steps to make  sure it was right for her. But it did need to make sure it gave her all the 
information she needed to make her own decision.
Its possible Capital One didnt give Miss S all the information required.  But looking at 
Miss Ss circumstances at the time of sale I dont think more  or better information would 
have made  a difference to her decision to buy it. I say this because:
Ref: DRN62003642Miss S was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have  made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such  as 
those related to self-employment or existing medical  conditions;
Miss S only received statutory sick pay and redundancy pay. The policy would have 
paid out in addition to these and for up to a year at a time. So I think if Miss S had 
fully understood  the terms of the PPI shed still have thought it offered her a useful 
benefit.
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time, so I dont  think if shed fully understood the price  that it would 
have put her off buying it.
So I dont  think Miss S lost out as a result  of anything Capital One might have done wrong. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Capital One has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was  above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy itself wasnt  mis-sold, so Capital One (Europe) Plc doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Miss S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200364