K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society will not refund payments that they 
say they did not make  from their joint bank account.
background
The disputed payments were all made online  to the same retailer. Payments using Mrs Rs 
debit card are recorded between 5 and 11 March 2018 and then resumed between  25 and 
27 March 2018  and came  to £180.50  in total.  Payments using Mr Rs debit card are shown  
from 28 March 2018 to 4 April 2018  and came to £65. Mr and Mrs R reported what 
happened on 5 April 2018 and the cards were cancelled. Mrs R has shown that similar 
payments from her account  at a different financial business were refunded to her.
Nationwide said it wouldnt be refunding the payments. It said that the IP address used for 
the payments  from Mr Rs card corresponded to one used when he logged  onto online 
banking. It also said that the first payment  of £28 using Mrs Rs card was in line with the 
available balance on the account  of £28.76  and there were no balance checks. It didnt think 
that the pattern of payments was typical for that of a fraudster. Nationwide  paid £50 for poor 
customer service  as it had incorrectly said on 12 April 2018  that it would be refunding  the 
payments on Mrs Rs card, only to say the following day that it wouldnt.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Mr and Mrs R had said that they kept their card details and online banking  details 
safe at home and no one else including their children could have accessed these.
-It was unusual that both card details werent  used at the same  time and there  was no 
benefit of a third party obtaining both sets as these related to a joint account.
-There were  no further attempts to use the cards after the fraud was reported  and it 
wasnt clear how a fraudster would have know the cards  were no longer usable.
-Shed  provided  a detailed table to Mr and Mrs R showing the payments made and 
the relevant IP addresses.
-The pattern of spending wasnt typical of a fraudster with relatively small  amounts  
taken out over a period of time. 
-The IP address  for the log in by Mr R matched that of a number of the payments. 
Although Mr and Mrs R were  certain that Mr R didnt log there  was no explanation of 
how someone else would have obtained the details necessary to do so.
-Although Mr and Mrs R thought  that a virus may have been downloaded to their 
phone to capture  their details there  was no evidence of this.
-She didnt see how all these  payments could have  been done by anyone  else and as 
the account was a joint one there  wasnt a distinction between who made the 
transactions.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and wanted  their complaint to be reviewed. They  believed  that 
their tablet device has been affected by malware and provided an online link explaining how 
this could happen generally.  They thought this took place one day when they tried to make  
payments to an energy supplier and entered  both debit card details for Nationwide  and those 
for Mrs Rs card at the other business where shed had a loss. They werent in a position  to 
get this verified  but offered to send the tablet to this service  to be checked.  Mr and Mrs R 
said that at times of the payments they were at work. It was a sheer coincidence that the first 
payment of £28 matched to the balance on the account. But they pointed out that ten 
payments had been attempted  and declined suggesting that the fraudster didnt know the 
balance in the account. And the fraudster wouldnt have known that the cards  were for the 
Ref: DRN61489352same account. They  thought that Nationwide should have noticed these multiple payments 
to the same  business  and made  checks. 
Mr and Mrs R said that they havent  been  given information to check the IP address used for 
genuine transactions having been told that these can change  every day. They  said that on 
29 March 2018  at 14.09 thered been a fraudulent payment with an IP address some  
distance from their home. But that at 14.29 Mr R had made  a genuine payment to an energy  
supplier at home. They say that a withdrawal on 4 April 2018 wasnt made  from a cashpoint 
also operated by the same business as the online retailer but from a different financial 
business. And that payments of £20 and £8 to the online retailer  using Mr Rs card were 
refunded in April 2018  which they cant understand.
Finally Mr and Mrs R said that they wouldnt have pursued this for so long if their claim 
wasnt genuine. And Mrs Rs claim to the different  financial business was refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised  
Mr and Mrs R wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how these payments  were  made?
-Did Mr and Mrs R either authorise the payments on the account,  or allow  someone else 
to use the card details?
I wont be reviewing a decision  made by a different  financial business to refund  similar  
payments as part of this complaint.
Nationwide has provided details about  how these  payments were made online with the 
correct card details. Its audit also records that there  was a verified  by visa process followed. 
Im satisfied that these  were authenticated payments. Ive also seen the online banking logs 
for the times  when Nationwide said that Mr R logged  into his online account. Theres  nothing  
to suggest that the correct security details  were not then used.
I need though to consider  whether Mr and Mrs R consented to these payments. I appreciate  
that they suspect  that their card details were obtained by malware. They  dont have any 
other explanation for how someone else could  have got their details and are clear  that no 
one else could have  got access to the details in their home. The compromise of their 
personal details  through  their computer isnt impossible but they havent provided direct 
evidence to support  that. And this service wouldnt be in a position  to arrange for their tablet 
to be checked.  Im afraid its up to them to have provided the evidence  to support their 
complaint.
But if this breach had happened in this way then I wouldnt have expected the payments  and 
attempted payments to have  been made first using Mrs Rs card and then Mr Rs. As theyve 
said a fraudster wouldnt have necessarily known that both of the cards  were  linked to the 
same account. And it also seems  odd to me that only payments to one online retailer and 
Ref: DRN61489353often for small amounts were attempted using both of the cards with some  gaps between 
them. 
I consider it is a significant  coincidence  that the first payment made was for all of the money 
at that time available in the account. But I also accept that whoever was making these 
payments did often try differing amounts suggesting that the balance wasnt  known at those 
times.
Ive looked at the other specific points about the payments theyve made.  The payment Mr R 
made at 14.29  on 29 March 2018 was recorded  as a recurring payment  thats  one that the 
energy company has authority to take. So although Mr R may have made other  manual 
payments to that business I dont think he had to make that one  so close  to a disputed 
payment 20 minutes  earlier that day. Mr and Mrs R are also right that the cash withdrawal  on 
4 April 2018 was from a different financial businesss  cashpoint  I dont know if that was co-
located with the retailer but it doesnt make  a difference. And they are again right to point out 
that £20 and £8 was refunded by the online business to their account. Thats clearly not 
something Nationwide ever agreed to do having  declined Mr Rs claim from the start and 
seems likely to have  been made by the retailer itself.  I know that the investigator wasnt able 
to get any further  information from the retailer. And again this doesnt affect my assessment 
of what Nationwide  did here. 
Im looking  at the overall set of circumstances in making my decision. To find that these 
payments were made  by an unknown third party  Id need to think  all of the following were 
most likely:
-A fraudster was able to obtain the card details and chose to use Mrs Rs card first over a 
period of time correctly guessing the balance in the account  at first.
-The fraudster made no attempts to use the cards between  11 March  to 25 March 2018 
when there was money in the joint account  and with attempts to use Mr Rs card only 
starting on 28 March 2018.
-A fraudster though  did have sufficient details to log onto Mr Rs online banking  before 
then which would  have needed the card and PIN or his password and then made  
payments from both cards  using  corresponding IP addresses.
-Any attempts to use the cards and online details  stopped by coincidence when the fraud  
had been reported.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  Im able to make on the available  evidence.  So I 
conclude that the most  likely explanation  is that these payments were consented to and 
authorised.
I appreciate how disappointed Mr and Mrs R will be having waited for this review. But Im 
afraid I dont have a basis to require Nationwide to do anything further.
Ref: DRN61489354my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6148935