complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that their Individual Savings Account (ISA) Investment with Legal 
& General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd (L&G) was cancelled before  the term 
end.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out an ISA investment to run alongside their interest  only mortgage in
2000. The ISA was sold by a third party  on behalf of L&G. The policy was designed 
to protect  and repay their mortgage when the term came to an end.
Mr and Mrs D say that when they enquired about  moving home, they found  the ISA had 
been cancelled  and they still owed  the full mortgage  amount. As they say they didnt 
cancel the ISA, they brought a complaint to L&G.
L&G looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that they had computer records  
that show the policy was cancelled two months  into the term and the surrender value 
refunded to Mr and Mrs D. They have further  records that show three  subsequent 
premiums paid were also refunded. Due to the passage  of time thats passed it says it no 
longer has a copy of the cancellation request.
As Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy,  they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. She said 
that over the course of 19 years Mr and Mrs D would  have  noticed  they were  no longer 
paying the premium  to keep the ISA running.  She went  on to say that as only the policy  
holder can cancel a policy,  she found on balance that this was the most likely thing to 
have happened.
Mr and Mrs D responded  to the view and said that they thought  they were paying  
the mortgage and ISA as a combined payment, so they wouldnt have noticed 
when the payment was no longer going out.
The investigator thought about  the further point but it didnt change her view.  She said 
the ISA application form documents that the premiums would be paid separately and 
this was evident by the fact two premiums were  paid for the first two months of the 
policy. She went on to say that there  would  be no reason for the business to cancel the 
ISA without  Mr and Mrs D requesting it.
Mr and Mrs D asked for a final decision,  so the complaints  been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D say they didnt cancel the ISA investment, but the evidence  
suggests they made the cancellation and would have been aware that the ISA investment 
was no longer in place.
L&G have sent us an internal  screen  shot that shows the ISA was surrendered and an 
amount of £64.64  sent to Mr and Mrs D. A further screen shot shows  three payments of
£54.29 refunded.
Mr and Mrs D say they thought the premium for the ISA investment was combined  with the 
Ref: DRN6132898mortgage payment  and for this reason they didnt  notice  for some 19 years that it wasnt  
coming out of their account. Im satisfied that the first five payments coming out of their 
account individually is enough to make them aware that it was a separate payment. And it 
follows that this was enough  to make them aware that for the next 19 years they wasnt 
paying a premium. There is also the return  of premiums and the money from the surrender 
of policy that would have  alerted them to the fact the policy was no longer  in place.
Mr and Mrs D didnt contact the business to ask why their money had been returned and I
think its more likely  due to the fact they cancelled the policy.
Overall I find it most likely  that Mr and Mrs D cancelled the policy  and there is evidence to 
show they were aware that the policy was no longer in place. I dont find L&G have  acted 
unfairly in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
2
Ref: DRN6132898