K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1988. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both in case  
either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, Ive not found  that this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The sale was over three decades ago and the account has long since closed,  so I think its 
understandable that neither side still have the documents from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ws data rather than 
hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs W say they were made  to feel they had to take the PPI 
to get their mortgage.  Though while Im confident they gave us their best recollections, I am 
conscious that the sale of insurance is not often memorable, that this sale was especially 
long ago, and that memories  can and do fade over time. Ive thought carefully about whats 
most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr and Mrs W into 
thinking PPI was compulsory. But I have no evidence which shows  thats what  it did in this 
particular sale. Nor have I seen any wider  problems with Halifaxs sales process  from the 
time. And the sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax  to be able to 
produce evidence  to defend itself now. So on that basis, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably conclude that its most likely Halifax misled Mr and Mrs W here.  I think  its more 
likely that it followed a normal sales process, gave them  a choice about buying PPI, and they 
chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check  it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr and Mrs W dont  seem to have  been  affected  by any of the policys main  exclusions or 
limitations. And they dont seem to have had any other cover in place at all, aside from the 
very limited statutory work benefits  which couldve left them at serious risk of losing their 
home if one or both of them was off sick or lost their job without PPI.
Ref: DRN69044412I understand Mr and Mrs Ws family  may have been more  than willing to help. But their 
mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, and circumstances change over 
time  there was no guarantee the family would be able to help when needed. Further, this 
mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Ws name and not anyone  elses,  so I dont think it wouldve 
been suitable for Halifax to have advised them to rely on someone  else to pay it. And while  
I understand Mr and Mrs W may have felt secure in their jobs, their employment  was not 
guaranteed  certainly not over 25 years  and redundancies can and do happen  even in 
jobs that seem reliable. Taking everything  into account, it looks like the PPI couldve really 
been useful for Mr and Mrs W in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind in 
case something went wrong.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs W about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them  in case they 
fell on difficult times.  And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs W 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  So overall, I dont  think  that better  information  
was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs W may have  got a refund for other  PPI policies. But 
different types  of PPI worked in different ways, were suitable  in different circumstances, and 
were sold using different  methods at different  times. So just because  one policy  was mis-
sold, it doesnt necessarily mean  that a different one was, too  though  I understand why 
Mr and Mrs W wanted to mention this. I explained  above why Ive not found  that this 
particular PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6904441