K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Valour Finance Limited is seeking payment from her of a loan she says 
she didnt take out and didnt agree  to. Valour Finance Limited trades  in this case as 
Savvy.co.uk.  
background
In February 2019  Savvy.co.uk received an application for a loan, apparently from Ms C. The 
loan of £700 was approved and paid into Ms Cs bank  account.  A number of withdrawals 
were then made from the account, she says without  her authority. 
The loan was to be repaid  weekly over the following twelve months. Ms Cs bank statement 
indicates that one payment was taken,  but that her account was then closed  and 
Savvy.co.uk was unable  to take any more. 
Ms C told Savvy.co.uk that she hadnt taken out the loan. She said her former partner had 
done so. Hed taken out other loans with other  lenders as well, and had gained access  to her 
bank account.  
Savvy.co.uk didnt accept  that Ms C wasnt involved. It said it had carried  out detailed checks  
before agreeing the loan and was satisfied it was dealing with Ms C. It required her to repay 
the loan in line with its terms. 
Ms C complained to this service. She said that her former partner had taken out several 
loans in her name. She also told us that she had been abroad when the loan had been  taken 
out, that her former partner had admitted  to what he had done and that she hadnt  been able 
to get a refund from her bank  of the money  removed from her account  since  she hadnt  
taken proper care of her card. 
One of our investigators  considered what Ms C and Savvy.co.uk had said and the 
information and evidence theyd provided.  She didnt think  that Ms C had taken out the loan.  
It wouldnt therefore be fair to hold her to the terms of the finance agreement. But, because  
the loan had been paid into Ms Cs bank account, it wasnt unfair  for Savvy.co.uk to seek  
repayment of the capital  balance of the loan.  
Ms C accepted the investigators recommendations, but Savvy.co.uk didnt. It maintained 
that it had carried  out proper  checks before agreeing to the loan. It questioned too whether 
Ms C had reported the matter to the police. It asked that an ombudsman  review the case.             
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons. 
The loan application was made  through the Savvy.co.uk website.  That meant there  was no 
face-to-face contact  and that the loan agreement was signed electronically.  Savvy.co.uk has 
explained in some detail the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loan. They  included,  
for example, telephone numbers, employment  information and banking details. But the main  
issue I have to consider  here isnt whether it carried out sufficient checks  (for example, to 
meet its own or regulators  requirements),  but whether  in fact Ms C took out the loan herself 
or agreed  that someone  else could take it out in her name. 
Ref: DRN68812012The investigator wasnt persuaded  that Ms C did take out the loan.  Ms C had demonstrated 
by providing flight  confirmations  that she was not in the UK at the time of the application and 
agreement. Since the loan was taken  out online, its still possible that Ms C did take it out. 
But the investigator also noted  that some of the questions that Savvy.co.uk asked over the 
telephone when it verified the application  were  not answered correctly or confidently. Having 
listened to the call, she didnt believe that Savvy.co.uk was dealing  with Ms C. 
I note as well that neither  the mobile  phone number nor the email address provided  in the 
application match those  which Ms C provided to this service. Of course, she may have 
changed them later;  but its also important to note that somebody else could have used  
different contact details,  and Savvy.co.uk  wouldnt have known if they were  Ms Cs or not.
I think it very likely  that most of the information Savvy.co.uk asked in the course of the loan 
application would have been known to a former partner.  But, as Ive explained, not all the 
questions were answered correctly. So I agree with the investigator that, on balance, its 
more likely that someone other than Ms C took out the loan. 
Ill comment too on Savvy.co.uks argument that Ms C should report  this matter to the police. 
As Ive explained, the main issue here is whether in fact Ms C took out the loan. I can see 
that reporting the matter to the police might lend credibility to her case that she didnt, but no 
more than that. And, even if she had reported this to the police, that would not show she 
wasnt involved. I dont  find this issue particularly persuasive in this case.     
Im not persuaded either that Ms C knew or agreed  to someone using her name and details 
for the loan. I think it was taken out without  her knowledge or authority.  The general principle 
in such a case is that the lender cannot  properly request repayment of the loan from the 
person it wrongly  believes to be the borrower. 
However, I cannot ignore the fact that Ms C has had the loan money   in the sense that it 
was paid into her bank account.  I agree  with Savvy.co.uk that it cant be held responsible for 
what happened to the funds after that. It wouldnt be fair to treat Ms C as if she had no 
benefit from the money, even if that benefit  was quickly  removed from her by subsequent 
events  in this case, the compromise of her bank account. She should therefore be treated 
in much the same way as she would be if, for example, money  had been  paid to her by 
accident. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that Savvy.co.uk should not hold Ms C to the 
terms of the loan agreement. But, because Ms C has had the money,  I shant require 
Savvy.co.uk to write  off the whole of the debt; she should not however be held to the terms 
of the loan agreement.     
my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve Ms Cs complaint in full Valour Finance Limited should: 
confirm to Ms C that it will not seek repayment from her of any interest, charges or fees 
due that would arise  under  the loan agreement;
remove or arrange  for the removal of all records of the loan from Ms Cs credit files, 
including those kept by external credit reference  agencies;  and 
confirm to Ms C the capital amount due from her, so she and Valour Finance Limited 
can make appropriate repayment  arrangements.
Ref: DRN68812013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6881201