K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr B took out a credit card with HSBC in 2002.  At the same time he bought  a PPI policy  
which wouldve helped cover his repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work.
Mr B says that he didnt  need the PPI.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr B disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
HSBC has provided  a copy of the credit card agreement Mr B completed. Theres a separate  
section for PPI where Mr B is given a clear choice about the product. He ticked  the box to 
say he wanted  it, leaving the box to say he didnt want it empty. He then signed the form.
So I think its clear that Mr B chose to take the PPI knowing he didnt  have to.
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also doesnt seem to have been unaffordable for Mr B. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI wouldve put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said  including what  hes said about not needing  the 
cover, but these  points dont change my decision.  I dont think Mr B lost out as a result  of 
anything HSBC might have done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, so it follows  that HSBC UK Bank  PLC doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN65827482Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6582748