K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
on her motor insurance policy and the level of customer service it provided.  She wants 
compensation for the effect  this had on her No Claims Discount (NCD). 
background
Mrs K was involved  in a car accident  with another  driver and she was sure it wasnt her fault. 
She provided AA Insurance  with CCTV footage of the incident. AA Insurance  initially  held the 
other driver at fault and tried to pursue the other insurer for an admission of liability. But the 
other insurer said that Mrs K was at fault based on the CCTV footage. AA Insurance  took 
legal advice which said that it would be unlikely to successfully defend the case  in court. And 
so AA Insurance accepted liability on Mrs Ks behalf. Mrs K was unhappy that AA hadnt 
fought to find her not at fault or achieve  a 50/50  split liability outcome. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought the 
length of time it took for the dispute  about liability to be settled wasnt unusual. He thought  
AA Insurance  had reasonably pursued  the other insurer to accept liability  but it had to 
eventually concede that Mrs K was at fault. But he thought that AA Insurance  had misled 
Mrs K about  the likely outcome of the claim for several months. He thought it should pay her 
£100 compensation for the upset this caused.  
Mrs K replied that she thought she should  be awarded more compensation. She asked for 
an ombudsmans review,  so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs K is adamant that she wasnt  at fault for the accident which occurred  
almost two years ago. I can understand that she feels frustrated by AA Insurances decision 
to accept liability on her behalf.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
AA Insurance  is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Mrs K to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Mrs K has to follow  its advice in connection  with the 
settlement of her claim, whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled  to take a commercial  
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
I can see from its file that AA Insurance initially tried to dispute liability with the other insurer.  
It told Mrs K that the case could be settled non fault or 50/50  split liability. But it later said 
that when it viewed the CCTV  footage it had to concede  liability as it said it wasnt  able to 
defend Mrs K. It said this was because Mrs K was making a three point turn at the time and 
the greater duty of care was on her whilst the other  driver was proceeding in their lane. 
Ref: DRN69791382The other insurer threatened  court  proceedings and so AA Insurance  accepted liability to 
avoid further costs. 
Mrs K was unhappy with this outcome.  But I think AA Insurance  fought and then accepted  
liability for the claim fairly  and reasonably. I think it reasonably considered the evidence 
available and took advice about the likely outcome if the matter went  to court, as was 
threatened. It accepted liability to avoid further costs as I think  its entitled  to do by the policy  
terms and conditions. So I cant say it did anything wrong in this. 
But I agree  with the investigator that AA Insurance misled Mrs K about the likely outcome of 
the claim.  Claim outcomes can change depending  upon the investigation of the evidence  
available. AA Insurance told Mrs K that it couldnt  defend her because  of the CCTV footage. 
Mrs K had sent AA Insurance the CCTV footage a few weeks after the accident and it had 
viewed it several times. Its file notes say that it thought the accident  wasnt non fault, but it 
may be able to achieve split liability. But it didnt tell Mrs K of its decision to accept  liability 
because of this until about six months  later. 
I think AA Insurance  could  have managed Mrs Ks expectations better. The investigator 
thought AA Insurance should  pay Mrs K £100  compensation  for the upset caused by this 
level of service. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its what  Id award in similar  
circumstances. I dont  require AA Insurance to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mrs K £100  compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6979138