K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is seeking an acknowledgement and apology from TransUnion International UK 
Limited (Callcredit) because the verification  processes  in place when she applied  online 
didnt validate her and allow  her to view her credit  report  via Noddle. 
background
Noddle is no longer  owned by Callcredit, but it was owned by Callcredit  at the time of the 
relevant events.
Mrs Ps point  is that she was verified or validated to receive her statutory report  from 
Callcredit but not to view her Noddle report. She argues Callcredit  should  have  ensured  
there was consistency  between  the two: if she was validated to receive her statutory  report, 
she should also have  been validated to view her Noddle  report. 
Callcredit said:
The verification  processes  for the statutory report and for Noddle were  different. So it 
was possible,  as had happened in Mrs Ps case, that an individual  might be verified  
to receive a statutory  report but not to view the Noddle  report.  
The verification  process for Noddle was an automated process that couldnt  be 
manually intervened with or circumvented.  This was a security  feature and was 
designed that way to prevent the system from being manipulated.  If an individual 
could be verified, then they could access their report via Noddle.  If they couldnt  be 
verified then access couldnt  be granted.   
Another security feature of the Noddle  verification process was that staff members 
werent able to see why an individual had failed the verification  procedure.  So 
Callcredit was unable to say why Mrs P couldnt  access her credit report via Noddle. 
Even if Callcredit did have access to that information, it would be unable  to disclose it 
to the ombudsman service or Mrs P as to do so would compromise the integrity of 
Callcredits security procedures.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ps complaint. In essence she accepted  Callcredits 
explanations as valid.
Mrs P didnt accept Callcredits  explanations or the investigators conclusion. She said:
It was vital that businesses and consumers  could  have  complete  confidence  in the 
websites of credit reference agencies because  of the serious  impact  they could  have 
on our financial prospects.
If the ombudsman  service wasnt going  to penalise Callcredit for the fact that its 
website wasnt trustworthy then Callcredit should at least  be obliged  to apologise or 
acknowledge that this was the case, or else we were belittling the importance of 
public confidence  in financial institutions.
Confirming a persons identity before releasing  financial  information was a vital and 
fundamental task.  The checks carried out to confirm  identity on a credit reference  
agencys website  must  be consistent throughout that website. It was unacceptable to 
Ref: DRN65722792have one section  of the website confirming the persons  identity and another section 
which could not.
If one section of a website had different checks to establish the identity of a user and 
one section confirmed  identity  whilst the other did not, that meant that one of the 
sections was deficient and unsafe  because they couldnt both be right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I havent  
upheld her complaint.
Clearly it would have  been convenient for Mrs P if shed been able to view her Noddle report 
when she input the same information that allowed her to apply for her statutory  report. But 
does that mean the ombudsman service should censure Callcredit on that account or require  
it (or now others) to change its procedures  so that others dont experience  what  Mrs P 
experienced? I dont think it does.
When reaching our decisions,  we have to take account of relevant law, regulations  and 
regulators rules,  their guidance and standards, of codes of practice and, where relevant, of 
what we consider to have  been good industry  practice at the relevant time.
None of the sources Ive just listed required Callcredit to ensure that if a person was verified  
for a statutory report, they should also be verified for Noddle.
Noddle was a separate service, as has been  shown by its sale to another business  since the 
events took place. There was nothing that required Callcredit to apply a particular verification 
process to Noddle.  Noddle  wasnt a credit  reference agency and wasnt  obliged to provide its 
services to the public  or guarantee that an individual could access its service if offered. 
Callcredit has explained that the verification process  for Noddle  was automated  and didnt 
provide staff members access  to the workings of the process in individual  cases.  Either a 
person like Mrs P could gain access to Noddle  by following the verification process or they 
couldnt. This has been described as a security feature and that strikes me, on the face of it, 
as valid. I dont think its for the ombudsman service to prescribe to financial businesses like 
Callcredit what their security or verification procedures  should be. Thats  for the legitimate 
commercial judgement of the businesses concerned.
Its not immaterial to point  out that Mrs P wasnt denied  access  to the information about  her 
credit status  that Noddle would have provided her with, as she successfully applied  for a 
statutory report from Callcredit, which contained  all the information  on which the Noddle 
report would  have been based.
Finally, I see there was a suggestion that the verification difficulty Mrs P experienced with 
Noddle may have  had something to do with a decision by a lender, which  said it used 
Callcredit, to refuse Mrs P credit. This appears  to be unsupported  speculation. I think  its 
very unlikely  to have  been the cause  of the refusal. The lender wouldnt have relied  on 
Noddle for assessing Mrs Ps status but would  rather have applied  to Callcredit for 
information in the latters  capacity as a credit  reference agency. 
Ref: DRN65722793my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6572279