K822xcomplaint
Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 complain  that Barclays  Bank UK PLC caused unreasonable 
delays to their mortgage application. They want compensation.
background 
Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 applied  to Barclays for a mortgage. They said that Barclays  
delayed sending an updated mortgage  offer for no known  reason, which  made them  unsure 
if the transaction would  complete. Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 said that they and their 
solicitor had to chase Barclays for several weeks and caused  one of them  to make a wasted 
trip to the UK to sign the offer (and spend  time with family). The offer was updated  due to a 
reduction of the purchase price of the property to be subject  to the mortgage. They want 
compensation as Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 said that they were also required  to pay 
extra costs  to the seller  due to the delay  caused  by Barclays.
Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 complained to Barclays. It said that it did delay  sending  the 
updated mortgage offer for about four weeks and didnt know why. It apologised and offered 
£1000 compensation to cover trouble and upset and any additional legal costs caused  by 
chasing Barclays.
Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Barclays 
offer of £1000 was more than fair and reasonable to compensate for the trouble and upset 
and additional  costs caused  by its failure.  He noted that there  was no evidence  of the extra  
money allegedly paid to the sellers or extra legal fees.
Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 disagreed. They said that theyd now agreed not to pay the 
sellers extra  costs  but thought more compensation should be paid as large banks otherwise 
would get away with making mistakes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making mistakes, but to put consumers back into the position that they shouldve  been in all 
along if the error hadnt been  made.  This service doesnt award compensation to stop 
lenders getting away with making mistakes.
In Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3s case, theres no dispute that Barclays  didnt act fairly or 
reasonably in delaying the updated mortgage offer. And theres no evidence of financial loss. 
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset. Money  never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset suffered, but this service has guidelines  to help work out 
how much  is fair and reasonable. Having considered the evidence  before me, the guidelines  
and all the circumstances of this case, I think £1000 is more than fair and reasonable. I note 
that the visit to the UK to sign the offer was combined with a family visit and the property 
wasnt lost due to the delay.
Ref: DRN61476722my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 
and Mr U3 whether to accept the offer from Barclays Bank UK PLC.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr U1, Mr M, Mr U2 and Mr U3 to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6147672