K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say TSB Bank plc should locate a missing payment of £443.03 sent by a third 
party company (TPC).  
background
Mr and Mrs H were sent a refund from TPC on 13 August 2018, but didnt receive  it into their 
TSB account. Mr and Mrs H made  a number of trips to branch  to try and locate  the funds. 
Eventually they were  advised by TSB to request a trace  of the funds  from the sender, TPC. 
This was completed on 31 January 2019 and showed the incorrect  international bank  
account number  (IBAN) had been  used  to make the transaction. 
TSB wrote a final response  in which it explained  as Mr and Mrs H provided the incorrect 
account information to TPC, and TSB had no involvement in the transfer,  it couldnt  be held 
responsible for the funds going  missing. But it did accept the process  of trying to get the 
refund had been frustrating for Mr and Mrs H, so offered to pay them  £100  in recognition of 
this, plus £50 for any financial losses they had incurred.  Mr and Mr H disagreed  and didnt 
think TSB had made it clear that the IBAN changed and still felt it should  try to locate the 
missing funds for them. 
Two of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and agreed  that TSB wasnt 
responsible for the funds going  missing, They explained that in April 2018, TSB had changed 
all IBANs with LOYD  in them and this had been  advertised to all consumers. But they felt 
TSB should pay Mr and Mrs H £150  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused, plus £57.15  
for the costs incurred  from visiting the branch. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with this and still felt someone should help them locate the missing  
funds. As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what the adjudicators  have said on this complaint; though I do 
empathise with Mr and Mrs Hs situation. The scope of our investigation is limited to what the 
business complained about has done. So Im only able to look into whether or not TSB has 
made an error in the circumstances and if this has caused Mr and Mrs H a financial loss. 
And I cant extend that scope to look into what involvement other businesses have had in the 
missing funds or direct other businesses to assist in the recovery  of it. 
With this in mind Ive focussed  on what TSB has done in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As TSB is the receiving bank for the funds, it has no involvement in the processing of the 
transfer. So I cant hold it responsible for any delays in the processing of the transfer itself. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they got the account information they provided to TPC from the last 
TSB statement they received, so they feel TSB had a responsibility to make sure this 
information was correct. And they think that when TSB changed this information, it had a 
responsibility to prevent  situations such as this happening.    
Ref: DRN61073812The statement  Mr and Mrs H used was from March 2018 and the payment was attempted  on 
13 August 2018.  So it appears  that Mr and Mrs H provided information to TCP from a 
document dated five months prior to when  the payment was made. I can understand why 
they felt this would be a sensible  thing  to do, but I dont think  I can hold TSB responsible for 
this information  no longer  being correct five months later. 
TSB did make a decision to change  any IBAN that still had LOYD in it, which Mr and Mrs H 
had. These  changes were  made on 23 April 2018  and various notifications were  sent to 
consumers about  this. TSB has been  able to evidence that it sent Mr and Mrs H a document  
about the upcoming changes to all accounts  in August 2017 and follow up e-mails relating to 
the changes. In addition  to this, it made the information available  on its website.  So I think 
TSB made the information  about the changes available for Mr and Mrs H to see. And I dont 
think TSB needed to do more in this particular case to make  Mr and Mrs H aware  of the 
change in IBAN.  
TSB also had an agreement with Lloyds bank  that any payment made using the incorrect  
IBAN would be sent on to TSB by Lloyds. But this agreement only affected payments made 
in May and June.  As Mr and Mrs Hs payment was made in August, this agreement was no 
longer in place.  
Overall, I think TSB couldve explained the situation to Mr and Mrs H and directed them to 
trace the funds  through  TCP sooner. But I dont think that it needed to do anything more  to 
help them trace the missing funds. So with this in mind, I agree that the £150  compensation 
TSB already offered,  plus £57.15 for financial losses is a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and agree  TSB Bank plc should pay £150 compensation plus 
£57.15 for financial losses.  I understand it has already done this. 
I dont agree that TSB Bank plc needs to do more to recover the missing funds sent by the 
third party company. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6107381