K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the market value Advantage Insurance  Company  Limited  paid 
when it settled a total loss claim he made  under his car insurance policy.  Mr Hs friend  also 
Mr H  is representing him in his complaint.  
background
Mr H bought a car insurance policy with Advantage. He made a claim as his car was 
involved in an incident. Unfortunately Advantage said it wasnt economical to repair Mr Hs 
car. So it decided  a market value for it by using  the main motor  trade  guides.  Advantage 
gave a final valuation  of £1,179. 
Mr H said the valuation  Advantage  placed  on his car wasnt correct. He said it was a rare car 
which was on its way to becoming a classic  car. It had lower than average mileage. He said 
he couldnt buy a like for like car on the open market  for £1,179. He thought his car was 
worth at least £2,500.  Mr H said his car had no previous damage and was in excellent 
condition. He felt it was unfair that he was out of pocket as a result of an incident which he 
said wasnt his fault. 
Our investigator thought Advantage had reached its valuation  reasonably  and in line with the 
policy. Mr H didnt agree. He doesnt believe the guides reflect  the true value of his car. He 
doesnt believe Advantage  had taken into account the model  and extras his car had. 
Our investigator checked with Advantage. Advantage used the VIN number for Mr Hs car to 
check it had the correct model - and checked again  against one of the main motor trade 
guides. And it checked if the sports model of the car would have made a difference to the 
valuation. The guide didnt show any difference in the valuation it provided. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings.  So he wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator explained that this service  has a long standing  approach  to valuation 
complaints. We dont decide a valuation for a car. But we look at whether an insurer has 
reached its valuation  in a fair and reasonable way  and in line with the policy.  Mr Hs policy 
wasnt a classic car policy  or an agreed value policy. So  like many standard  motor  
insurance policies   the most Advantage agreed  to pay in the event  of a total loss claim was 
the market value of the car at the time of loss. 
Advantage defines the term market value  as follows:
The cost of replacing  your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar  make, model, age and condition, publications may be 
used which  refer to vehicle values such as Glasss  Guide lo assess the market value, 
with an allowance  being made  for the mileage,  condition and circumstances of 
purchase by you.
Ref: DRN69204032We find the main motor trade guides to be more  reliable than adverts as they are based on 
likely selling prices and can provide an average  valuation for the make, model,  age, mileage 
and condition of a vehicle. Advertised prices can vary widely and tend to be a starting  point 
to negotiate the price  down. 
The advert examples  Advantage  and Mr H provided range widely for mileage, age, model 
and condition. I havent seen anything in the examples to persuade me that the adverts  are 
more reliable than the motor guides  in deciding a fair valuation for Mr Hs car. 
The market  value Advantage reached of £1,179 is toward the higher  end of three  of the main 
motor trade  guides  for Mr Hs car which weve checked.
Advantage has used  the VIN number  for Mr Hs car to check  it used the correct specification 
for his car - as Mr H believes it hasnt included some  sports extras  which he says make it 
worth more. 
However, Advantage has provided a further  valuation from guide G which shows that even 
if Mr Hs car had a full sports package, the depreciation value for the difference  came to 
zero. 
Mr Hs car was 19 years old when it was declared a total loss. Sometimes  extra features 
have a second hand value. Sometimes  they dont.
I know Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think in this case  Advantage 
has reached a market value for Mr Hs car in a fair and reasonable way  and in line with the 
policy. So Im not asking it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6920403