K822xcomplaint
Mr O complained about how TSB Bank  plc dealt with his request to withdraw a large amount 
of money.
background 
Mr O has an account with TSB. He wanted to withdraw a large  amount of money,  to make a 
purchase. 
Mr O told us he asked TSB to get the money  ready  on 30 January. He was told it would have  
to be ordered  in. Mr O requested the money in £10 notes, in clear plastic  bags.  Mr O said he 
was told hed need to bring ID, as well as his debit card, when he went to collect  the money.
TSB rang Mr O on 5 February and said that instead  of bringing one form of ID, he would 
need to bring  three pieces of ID.  
Mr O said that he has disabilities, which mean that he needs  lots of notice to prepare for 
things, and this unexpected change  to the ID requirement, coupled with the fact that he 
couldnt find the key to access where  his ID was, caused him severe  anxiety, and he 
became very unwell.  He said he tried to go into a branch to resolve the problem  but this 
made things  worse.
Mr O also told us that he went to get some  groceries, and discovered that his account  was 
frozen. He said that TSB hadnt told him this, even  though hed been on the phone with the 
bank for some time on 5 February, raising his complaint. 
Mr O told us about the impact that all of this had had on him, including  a marked  setback in 
his recovery from mental  illness. 
The following  week,  Mr O said he had managed  to go to another bank, obtain statements 
showing where the money came from, and present this and ID at TSB. That meant  that his 
bank account  had been unfrozen,  but TSB still hadnt paid him the money,  and he said that 
all the stress  involved had made him quite seriously  ill. 
TSB said that it wasnt able to meet Mr Os request to supply the money in £10 notes, brand 
new and untouched by anyone and in clear plastic bags. It said that money  has to be 
counted by branch staff before its issued. 
TSB also said that it had asked Mr O to bring  three forms of ID when it first ordered the cash  
for him. It said it only reminded  him of this when  it later spoke  to him. It said that it made the 
decision to freeze Mr Os account after it spoke to him on the phone, telling him the money  
was ready  and he would need  to bring  those three  forms  of ID. TSB said that it had 
consulted its account review team, and the branch  staff and manager  had decided to add a 
block onto the account and ask Mr O for proof of where the £10,000 had come from. 
TSB said that Mr O had been repeatedly  rude and agitated in his interactions with staff in 
different branches, and on the phone.  TSB said that it didnt think  it couldve done anything  
different in trying to assist Mr O. 
TSB said that if a branch  member has any concerns  about  suspicious activity on an account 
they can report that to a central team who advise further. TSB said that the recent  activity  on 
Ref: DRN63134242Mr Os account was unusual for that account. It said that the decision to freeze Mr Os 
account was made  in line with its policy. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Os complaint. He didnt think that TSB had explained to Mr O 
what its security  requirements for ID were when he first ordered the money.  And he was 
unclear on why it had blocked Mr Os account after it spoke  to him on the phone, when the 
details of the transaction hadnt  changed.  
Our investigator didnt  think that TSB had to meet Mr Os particular request for how the 
money was paid to him. But he did think that TSB should reasonably  have been  aware  from 
speaking with Mr O that he needed  additional support, and our investigator couldnt see that 
TSB had made reasonable adjustments for that. Our investigator thought that TSB should 
pay Mr O £300 in compensation  to make up for what had gone wrong.
TSB said there was only limited evidence available for branch interactions and no recordings 
for calls made from branch. But it said it did have detailed notes made at the time.
TSB said that it thought Mr O had confirmed hed been asked  before  5 February to bring 
three forms of ID. Our investigator explained that TSB may have misread  evidence sent to it. 
Mr O hadnt said that. And he still didnt  understand why TSB was concerned about Mr Os 
account security after speaking to him on the phone on 5 February,  but not previously.
TSB said that it didnt  think that Mr O had only found out his card was blocked when he went  
shopping, because  there were  no declined transactions on his account  at that time. Our 
investigator said he appreciated that TSB might not be able to tell Mr O his account  was 
blocked, for security  reasons. He invited TSB to send  us evidence that Mr Os card hadnt 
been used at the relevant  time. TSB hasnt sent that. 
TSB said that wed said it should  make reasonable adjustments for Mr O, but it didnt know 
what those were. And it said it hadnt been  told what his condition was, and given  his 
consent to record  it. Our investigator said he didnt think TSB shouldve  agreed to give Mr O 
his money in untouched £10 notes. But he did think that TSB shouldve  recognised  and 
considered that Mr O may need  to be treated with extra care. 
TSB said it thought we were condoning Mr Os rude behaviour. Our investigator  didnt  agree. 
Our investigator said hed reconsider his view if TSB sent more  evidence. TSB replied. It 
said that its staff member had noted that Mr O had been asked  for additional  ID when he 
booked the withdrawal through the branch,  and had been upset by this request then. TSB 
didnt think that its staff member wouldve noted this if it hadnt  been said.
TSB said its concerns arose after it had spoken to Mr O on 30 January. It didnt think  that our 
investigator was in a position to make a judgment on when he believed security  concerns 
shouldve been  raised. 
TSB said it had sent us detailed notes of events,  made at the time. It didnt think that staff 
statements would add to that, and it didnt  think CCTV footage would help either.  And it said 
we still hadnt  told it how it shouldve behaved differently to Mr O. 
Our investigator and TSB werent able to agree, so this case  came to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN63134243I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-When Mr O rang TSB, and asked it to order some money for him, he requested  funds in 
a particular form. I thought TSB was unlikely to be able to comply  with this request in full. 
In particular, I thought  it was likely  someone  at the branch would need to handle  the 
notes before they were passed  to Mr O, to make sure the amounts were correct.  So I 
thought TSB only had to tell Mr O it wouldnt be able to do exactly what  hed asked. 
-TSB hadnt provided notes of this discussion from the time. It said there  werent any, not 
all conversations  are noted,  and this was a normal cash  request. It also said it had no 
security concerns at that time, again because this was a normal cash  request. But it sent 
us notes made on 5 February. It said these were  made after it had rung Mr O to say the 
money was ready and he needed to bring three forms  of ID to collect it. 
-TSBs  notes suggested however that this wasnt a straightforward interaction on 30 
January. They say Mr O was told then that hed need to bring  three forms of ID, and that 
he was very unhappy about this. They also note Mr Os particular request for the form 
that the cash should be supplied  in.
-If TSB was right, the interaction on 30 January didnt appear to have been an entirely 
straightforward request  for a cash transaction. So it wasnt  clear to me why it didnt note 
that conversation, and why security concerns were only raised on 5 February. 
-Mr O said from the start that he was only asked for his debit  card and one form of ID on 
30 January, and he became upset on 5 February  when he was asked for another  form of 
ID. He explained  that he became anxious partly  because he couldnt access that 
additional ID at the time. I thought that Mr O had given us a clear and consistent 
narrative about  what the branch told him, and when. 
-I weighed up the evidence from both sides, and I thought it was more  likely that Mr O 
wasnt asked for three forms  of ID when he initially booked  this transfer, and he was 
surprised to be asked  for additional  ID later. This had a significant impact on Mr O.
-I also considered what  happened to Mr Os account. TSB may well have had reason  to 
freeze the account, and looking at the circumstances overall,  including that these 
transactions do seem out of the ordinary for Mr O, I could see why it might have decided 
to. But I didnt think that meant TSB hadnt done  anything wrong. I didnt  think it was fair 
and reasonable of it not to tell Mr O that his account  had been frozen. Not telling a 
customer about action  like this might be the right thing to do in other, limited 
circumstances but I hadnt seen anything  to suggest those applied here. And I thought 
that made a difficult situation worse. 
-I also thought  our investigator  was right to note that TSB could  have done  more to take 
account of Mr Os disability. I said Id explain why I thought that.
-Our investigator had spoken to Mr O, and said its clear from speaking  to him that he 
would benefit  from extra care. Mr O told us that he is disabled, and that hes been open 
with TSB about this. He said that before his account was transferred to TSB, the 
previous building society knew about this and took it into account.  He also said hes told 
Ref: DRN63134244TSB hes disabled. And he described  symptoms of both physical and mental distress that 
he had exhibited in the branch and over the phone. 
-Taking account of all the above,  I thought, as our investigator said, that TSB shouldve  
been reasonably aware that Mr O was disabled,  and that it might  be required to make 
reasonable adjustments. It didnt seem  to have offered that. 
-TSB said our service  hadnt told it what reasonable  adjustments  it shouldve provided.  I 
said its not appropriate for our service to act in the place  of Mr O, and tell TSB what  we 
think it should do to help him. TSB could ask Mr O this. 
-I did think though  that I could share some comments Mr O made to our service. Mr O 
said he finds it helpful if people  who call him ask if its a good time to talk, and the person 
who rang on 5 February didnt  do that. It wasnt a good time for Mr O to talk then. 
-Mr O told us he has difficulty standing for long periods. Hed shown us medical evidence  
of why this is a problem for him. He also seemed to have told TSB at least once  that hes 
physically disabled  and this affects  his mobility. But he said TSB expected  him to stand 
at the counter for prolonged  periods when trying  to resolve problems on his account. 
-I thought it was more  likely than not that TSB failed to support Mr O in his interactions 
with it. TSB did now know Mr O is disabled. I hoped it would have a conversation  with 
him to obtain  his consent to record this, and to discuss reasonable adjustments  with him.
-I considered all the evidence in this case,  and I agreed with our investigator that TSB 
should pay some compensation in this case.  Like him, I thought that a payment of £300  
would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
-TSB said that Mr O had been rude to its staff, and overall hadnt behaved in the manner 
its entitled to expect. It expressed  a concern that, by upholding this complaint, our 
service would condone such behaviours. I said I didnt  condone  rudeness  to bank staff, 
and I wouldnt expect  TSB to accept  that. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr O wrote to thank  me, and to make some additional points. TSB didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr O set out again what hes told us has happened  in this case, and gave us more  detail. He 
stressed for us just how upsetting it has been  for him to read that TSB is still maintaining  its 
previous position.  He said that the effects  of this continue  for him. He clarified for us how 
hed asked TSB to deliver the cash he wanted to withdraw. And he said there were 
inaccuracies in what  TSB had set out. 
Mr O has told us he wants to accept my decision,  as to challenge TSBs inaccuracies further 
will just take us round in circles. Its clear  hes found this case  very upsetting. Hes shared 
with us personal information  which  I note,  but wont repeat here. I think its best if I respect 
Mr Os wishes,  and bring this case to a close.
Ref: DRN63134245There are just two issues that I would  like to mention  briefly.  One is that Mr O was 
concerned that TSB might now be suggesting  that hed ordered  the cash in a branch. I think  
thats from an unfortunate turn of phrase I used, where I meant  only to imply that Mr O had 
ordered the cash through a branch. Ive amended that above. TSB has always  said Mr O 
ordered this cash  on the phone. 
And the other  issue is that Mr O has said that he doesnt think  that he was rude to TSB staff, 
but he says that if he is struggling due to disability  and isnt supported,  then he deteriorates  
and can get agitated from stress caused. He said thats not a malicious decision, its 
disability. He said he sincerely apologises for that. But when he gets treated with respect 
and empathy he functions much better. Im including  this information here in the hope that it 
may assist in rebuilding relations between TSB and Mr O.
Ill now make  the decision  I originally proposed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr O £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6313424