K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  about two personal  loans Everyday  Lending Limited, trading as Everyday 
Loans, provided to him. He says Everyday  Loans acted irresponsibly in lending  to him 
because his credit history showed  he wasnt  creditworthy.
background
Mr Ws first loan with Everyday Loans  was taken  in November 2015 and was for £1,000  to 
be repaid over two years. The total amount to be repaid was £2,016.48, with monthly 
payments of £84.02.
Mr Ws second loan with Everyday Loans was taken  in January 2017 and was for £2,300, 
including £704.31  to pay off the first loan. So Mr W received £1,595.69 into his bank 
account. The total amount to be repaid was £5,576.16, with monthly payments of £232.34.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought Everyday Loans had acted 
irresponsibly in lending  to Mr W for both loans. Everyday Loans  disagreed  so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and guidance say that businesses must act responsibly when lending to 
consumers. Businesses must  consider the potential for the lending  to adversely impact  the 
consumers financial situation and the consumers ability to make the repayments as they fall 
due over the life of the agreement.
Businesses must assess whether the consumer could  afford  to meet  the repayments in a 
sustainable manner,  without incurring financial difficulties or significant adverse 
consequences. This means the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
2015 loan
As part of its affordability check for the first loan, Everyday loans carried  out a credit search 
to check Mr Ws credit  history and outstanding  debt.  It also asked him about  his income and 
rent payments and calculated what it thought his disposable income each month would  be. 
Ive seen copies  of this credit  search and calculation, as well as copies of Mr Ws bank 
statements given to Everyday Loans.
The statements  confirmed that Mr Ws income was around £1,200  a month  and his rent was 
£350 a month.  The credit  search showed Mr W was making repayments of around £200  a 
month towards outstanding balances of around  £5,400. And Everyday Loans income and 
expenditure calculations assumed Mr Ws living  expenses would be around £500  a month so 
he would  have around £150 disposable  income  each month, after the payments for this loan 
were made.
Ref: DRN69180072But the bank statements  also showed Mr W was making a number of significant payments to 
companies that werent listed on Everyday Loans credit search. And that payments Mr W 
was making to his communications  provider and utility company  were  significantly higher 
than the credit search showed, and his monthly spending was significantly higher than the 
income and expenditure calculation assumed.
The statements  also showed Mr W was regularly going overdrawn on one of his accounts,  
was being charged for the use of an unarranged  overdraft and had taken out three  short-
term loans in the two months before this loan was taken out. And these can suggest  a 
customer is struggling financially, is having difficulty managing their finances or is relying on 
other borrowing to meet  their outgoings.
2017 loan
As part of its affordability check for the second loan, Everyday loans carried  out a credit  
search to check Mr Ws credit history and outstanding debt.  It also asked him about his 
income and rent payments  and calculated what it thought his disposable income each  month 
would be. Ive seen copies of this credit search  and calculation, as well as copies of Mr Ws 
bank statements and payslip given to Everyday Loans.
The payslip confirmed  that Mr Ws income was around £1,300  a month  and the statements 
showed his rent was £350 a month. The credit search  showed  Mr W was making 
repayments of around £460 a month towards outstanding balances of around £6,000. And 
Everyday Loans  income and expenditure  calculations assumed Mr Ws living expenses 
would be around  £500 a month and so he would have  around £90 disposable  income each 
month, after the payments for this loan were made.
But the bank statements  also showed Mr W was making a number of significant payments to 
companies that werent listed on Everyday Loans credit search. And that payments Mr W 
was making to his communications  provider, utility company and short-term  loans were 
significantly higher  than the credit  search showed, and his monthly spending was 
significantly higher  than the income  and expenditure calculation  assumed.
The statements  also showed that Mr W was regularly  going overdrawn on one of his 
accounts, was being  charged for the use of an unarranged overdraft  and had taken out two 
short-term loans in the month before this loan was taken out. And the credit search showed 
that Mr Ws total outstanding balances to other  creditors had increased since the first loan 
and that an outstanding balance that related to a county court judgment hadnt decreased. 
These can suggest a customer  is struggling  financially, is having difficulty managing their 
finances or is relying on other borrowing to meet their outgoings.
both loans
As Everyday  Loans had access  to the information on Mr Ws bank statements, I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for it to rely solely on the information from the credit searches and any 
assumptions about his living expenses. If Everyday Loans had also assessed the 
information on Mr Ws bank statements it should have seen that some of the information 
from the credit searches  was inaccurate  and that the estimates it had used for living  
expenses wasnt appropriate  for him.
Everyday Loans  has said that much  of Mr Ws monthly spending  was discretionary. But the 
statements show Mr W had been charged for the use of an unarranged  overdraft and had 
Ref: DRN69180073taken out several  short-term loans in the months  before  both loans were  taken  out. And 
these both suggest that a customer may be struggling to manage their finances.  Given this, I 
dont think it would have  been reasonable for Everyday  Loans  to assume that Mr Ws 
spending would be significantly  different after the loans  were  granted,  than before. So I still 
dont think it was reasonable for Everyday Loans to rely on its calculations.
And, given  the signs from the statements and the credit  searches that Mr W may have been 
having difficulty managing his finances, I think Everyday Loans  should have done more to 
satisfy itself that he would be able to meet the repayments in a sustainable manner and that 
it would  be responsible to lend to him.
So I dont  think Everyday  Loans has reasonably assessed the information it had about  
Mr Ws financial situation and so I dont  think it has acted  responsibly when providing either 
of the loans to him.
Based on the information Ive set out above  about  Mr Ws financial situation at the times of 
the loans, if Everyday Loans had reasonably  assessed the information  I think  it would have 
found it was unlikely that M W could afford  to sustainably make the repayments. And so it 
wouldnt have given  him either of the loans.
Everyday Loans  has also said Mr W successfully paid off the second loan without any 
challenges. But I dont  agree this shows Mr W could make his repayments in a sustainable 
manner as its not clear  whether he had to cut back on other  reasonable commitments,  
whether he had to rely on other borrowing  or whether his circumstances changed after the 
loan was given.  So I still think a reasonable assessment would have  found  it was unlikely 
Mr W could afford to sustainably make the repayments.
As Mr W ending up paying interest  and charges  on loans he shouldnt  have been given, I 
think he has lost out as a result  of what Everyday Loans did wrong.
putting things rights
Everyday Loans  shouldnt have given Mr W either  of the two loans. Everyday Loans should 
therefore:
a)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on both loans.
b)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr W which  were  
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c)then refund the amounts calculated  in a) and b).
d)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in relation  to both 
loans
 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Loans to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if Mr W asks for one.
Ref: DRN69180074my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Everyday Lending  Limited, trading as Everyday  Loans  should put 
things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6918007