K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 2004.  
When the PPI was sold to Mr H, BOS was trading  as Halifax. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with that view. 
He said that a family member had made a similar complaint,  which had been upheld. Mr H 
also disagreed  with what our adjudicator had said about how the was sold to him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H, but Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
First of all, I want  to clear up the confusion  about  how this policy came to be sold to Mr H. I 
appreciate he said that the cover was sold during a meeting with a broker.  However, BOS 
and our adjudicator  said that it was sold over the telephone. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs mortgage  application form. I can see that he applied  for his 
mortgage through a broker and his application  was signed on 2 June 2004. Theres  a 
question about  PPI on that application form, but Mr H answered  to say that hed already 
arranged cover elsewhere. I can see from BOS electronic  records that the mortgage  
account was opened on 15 June 2004.  The start date of the PPI was 27 August 2004. So it 
looks as though the cover was sold some time after the mortgage  was arranged. 
From our knowledge of how BOS  sold these policies at that time, we know that it did contact 
its customers by telephone after their mortgages had started. I appreciate Mr H doesnt 
agree, but looking at the evidence before me, I accept what BOS told us about the method of 
sale. 
Ive looked at whether it would have been clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional and he 
didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. I can see that Mr H told us that when  he bought the 
cover, he was told he would not be able to get the mortgage if he didnt take a PPI policy out. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H said on this point, but I dont think that what he 
remembers is right. It would be difficult for anyone to remember precisely what happened 
over 15 years ago, which is when this policy was sold. Having said that, its hard for me to 
see how BOS would  have  told him that he had to buy the policy  in order to get the mortgage 
 when that mortgage was already up and running  when the PPI was sold.  
Effectively, as the cover was sold after the mortgage started, I think  Mr H would have known 
he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. 
Ref: DRN69160232Mr H said he cant remember  whether  BOS  advised  him to take the cover  out. Ive treated 
the matter as though it did  thats  because its a higher test for the business to satisfy.  So if 
BOS advised  Mr H to buy PPI, it had to make sure the cover was suitable for his needs. To 
help me decide  whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at what we know about  the terms of the 
cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr H told us about his personal circumstances at 
the time.  
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the PPI cover, Mr Hs mortgage  repayments 
would have been covered  for up to 24 months  if he lost his job or if he was too unwell to 
work. Mr H told us that he would have  only been  entitled to statutory pay if he was off sick 
from work and he didnt have any other means  with which to pay his mortgage  if he wasnt 
working. 
It follows then that the PPI would have covered Mr Hs mortgage for longer than the existing 
means he had in place. It is important  for me to say that the borrowing was secured on 
Mr Hs property, so the consequences could have  been severe if he had fallen behind with 
his repayments.  
Mr H told us he was in good health  at the time. And Ive seen from BOS electronic records  
that are available from the time that no medical  conditions were recorded. So I dont think 
Mr H would have been affected by any of the policys  exclusions about  medical  conditions.  I 
havent seen anything unusual about Mr Hs circumstances that would have stopped him 
from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I think the cover  probably  was suitable for Mr H. Even so, BOS still 
had to give him enough information about  the cover so he could decide for himself whether it 
was a good fit for his needs. That information  had to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
I accept it is possible that BOS didnt tell Mr H everything it should have done  about the 
cover. But Ive set out above how I think PPI could have been helpful  for Mr H if he couldnt 
work. And I appreciate he doesnt now remember, but I think he probably chose to buy this 
policy at the time  so it looks as though he wanted that type of cover.  With all of this in 
mind, I dont  think more or better information about  this policy  would have put Mr H off 
buying it. 
I can see from the correspondence with our adjudicator  that Mr H thought  that his complaint  
should be upheld  because a family member had brought a similar and successful dispute. 
But I cant reasonably  uphold this complaint on those grounds. The circumstances for each 
case are different, even  in circumstances where they may seem similar on the face of it. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr H. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I havent upheld  this 
complaint and I dont  need to tell BOS  to take any further action  in respect of it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Ref: DRN69160233Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6916023