K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Ms E says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Ms E opened a store card account  in a shop in 2001. PPI was added  to her account  just 
over a year later, following a phone call.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Ms Es card each  
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said he didnt  
think FICL had made the policys cost and benefits clear enough to Ms E. And taking 
account of the other means shed  told us she had, he didnt think  shed have thought  the 
policy was good  value. So he didnt think Ms E would have taken out the PPI policy if FICL 
had given her clearer  information.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms E 
and to FICL  on 28 August 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Id seen a copy of Ms Es application  form for the store card. It includes  a section headed 
Protecting your Account . It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
Cover (a form of PPI), and it continues Please debit my Account with the relevant 
monthly premiums  until further  notice.  Theres a space to sign if the applicant  required 
Account Cover.  Ms E didnt sign the box. So I accepted  that she didnt choose to take 
PPI at the point when she applied for the card.
But I was satisfied, from FICLs internal  records,  that the policy was added  to Ms Es 
account at a later stage, following  a phone call. By that time Ms E had had the account 
without PPI for just over a year. So I thought shed have realised that PPI wasnt  
compulsory. And I thought it was most  likely  that the policy was added  to her account  
because she chose to take it  although I could understand how she may not remember  
this, so long after the event.
Ms Es told us she cant remember whether FICL advised her to take out the PPI policy. 
FICL says no advice was provided.  And based  on what  we know  about  the way it was 
selling these policies  at the time, I thought that was likely  to be right.  This means FICL 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms E. But it did need to make  sure it gave 
her enough information  to enable her to decide for herself  if she wanted PPI, knowing 
what alternative means shed have  had of making her monthly  repayments if she was 
unable to work.
Ref: DRN60271962I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Ms E about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But Id explained that I thought  she chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looked as if she wanted this type of cover,  even if shes  understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, 
Ms E was eligible for the policy.
Ms Es told us shed  have been entitled to at least  six months sick pay from her 
employer at the time. Shes also told us she had savings  that could have covered her for 
six-to-twelve months.
After the adjudicator sent out his view of the case, we asked Ms E for further information 
about her savings, including whether they were easily accessible, or earmarked for a 
specific purpose. Ms Es representatives told us that theyd asked Ms E for the 
information, but she didnt provide it. I thought these were reasonable questions  to ask. 
And without Ms Es answers  to them, I wasnt satisfied  that it would be fair to conclude  
that she had enough  readily  accessible savings to fall back  on that she didnt  need  the 
cover provided by the policy.
If Ms E had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment, it would  have  paid a monthly  benefit of 15% of what  she owed on her 
store card. And it would  have  done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or 
she returned to work,  or the outstanding  balance at the time of her claim had been repaid 
- whichever  was the earliest. So I thought it was likely that the policy  would have paid out 
for longer  than Ms E would have been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats more,  it would 
have paid out in addition  to any payments  she received from her employer, including  any 
redundancy pay if she lost her job. So she could  have used those to cover  other  day-to-
day expenses.  And she wouldnt  have had to use her savings to make her store card 
repayments.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Ms E about the cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Id seen nothing to suggest that the policy 
was unaffordable for Ms E. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have 
cancelled it without any further  cost if her situation  changed.
For the reasons  Id set out, without  better  evidence, I wasnt convinced that better 
information about the PPI would have put Ms E off taking it out. So based on what Id 
seen so far, I didnt  think shes lost out as a result of anything that FICL may have done  
wrong. And I wasnt planning  to uphold Ms Es complaint.
further submissions
Neither Ms E nor FICL has provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider, 
and the time for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN60271963my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6027196