K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) has failed  to pay 
money owed to her following the repossession and sale of her former home. Mrs C is being  
represented by a family member. For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being  
those of Mrs C. 
background
Mrs Cs home was repossessed in late 2016  and was subsequently sold for more than the 
money that was owed  on it. 
The surplus money was forwarded to a third party business  that had a second  legal charge 
on Mrs Cs property. The third party business  deducted  an amount it believed  was owed to it 
and forwarded  the balance of £17,902.88 to Link in June 2017.  Link had been granted  a 
legal charge on the property in 2011. 
Mrs C contacted Link in writing in December 2017 and asked for the surplus  to be forwarded  
to her. She was told by Link that it couldnt  locate the money without an account / agreement  
number or Link reference number.  
Mrs C brought the complaint to this service in March  2018. She said that although she has 
provided a good  deal of information  to Link, including the court reference dating  from when  
the legal  charge was placed  on her property, it said it was unable to locate the money. 
By October  2018  our investigator  had not been  sent any documentation by Link and issued 
an assessment asking Link to pay the full amount, including  8% simple interest. 
Link responded to the view and said it had located  the account. It said it was forwarded 
£17,902.88 from the third party business.  It then deducted an outstanding debt owed  to it by 
Mrs C and her former husband of £3065.36.  Half of the remaining balance of £14,837.52 
was paid to Mrs Cs former husband in 2017. Link said it needed identification  documents  
from Mrs C in order to release her share of the balance.  
Our investigator responded and said that Link should pay £7,418.76 to Mrs C and add 8% 
simple interest from 6 December 2017,  which was the date Mrs C contacted  Link and 
provided detailed  personal information. Our investigator also asked Link to pay £150  to Mrs 
C for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the delay in settling this matter.  
Link indicated it would  pay the amount owed to Mrs C, but didnt agree to pay the interest 
from December 2017 and didnt respond when asked to pay an additional £150. This 
complaint has been passed to me to review because Link hasnt paid any of the money  
owed and hasnt  provided a full response to our investigation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  
Mrs Cs complaint. 
At this stage, Link has agreed  that it needs  to pay £7,418.76 to Mrs C. Having seen  the 
relevant documentation, Im satisfied that Link was right to deduct  the outstanding  amount 
Ref: DRN66492352owed to it in relation to its charge on the repossessed property. It has paid half of the 
remaining money to Mrs Cs former husband  and so the balance is £7,418.76. 
Link has said it would be unfair to expect it to pay interest  on the amount owed to Mrs C. It 
said it hadnt had any contact from Mrs C since receiving the surplus funds and so wasnt 
aware of her contact  details. But that isnt the case.  Ive seen an email sent by Mrs C to Link 
on 6 December 2017 and Im satisfied that Mrs C provided enough information in the email  
for Link to be able to trace  her on its system.  Mrs C shouldnt be penalised because Link 
couldnt trace her on its system until this service became involved. 
This matter has taken longer than it should to resolve and Im satisfied that this has caused  
both distress and inconvenience  to Mrs C. Our investigator has suggested an amount of 
£150 and Im satisfied  that this amount is fair.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited should pay Mrs C £7418.76 plus 
simple interest at 8% per annum from 6 December 2017 until the date of settlement. In 
addition Link Financial  Outsourcing  Limited should pay £150 to Mrs C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her while she was waiting for this matter  to be settled. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Martina Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6649235