K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Quickly Finance Limited (Quickly Finance) handled his 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  claims. 
background
Mr B instructed Quickly  Financial to deal with PPI claims in February 2017. Mr B says he 
was sent duplicate claim packs. Quickly Finance say that part of the reason  for claim packs 
being re-issued  was because Mr Bs name had been incorrectly spelt, and this error had not 
been picked up. Quickly  Finance also say that it didnt receive all of the claim packs Mr B 
says he returned.  
Lender S
Quickly Finance received the claim pack  for Lender S in December 2017. Lender S advised  
Mr Bs account with them had PPI. In March 2018 Quickly  Finance incorrectly  cancelled  this 
claim on their system. In April 2018 Mr B contacted Quickly  Finance for an update, and the 
claim was re-opened.  In June Lender  S made an offer upholding  Mr Bs claim. Quickly  
Finance sent Mr B an invoice for their success fee. 
Lender C
Quickly Finance received the claim pack  for Lender C on 18 June 2018. Lender  C advised it 
couldnt locate  any accounts with PPI for Mr C. Quickly Finance advised Mr C that it could  
only continue with this claim  if he could provide evidence  showing PPI. Until then, the claim 
would remain closed.  
Mr B complained to Quickly Finance about  the delay, sending  duplicate claim packs, failing 
to challenge Lender Cs decision,  and the success fee charged for the claim with Lender S. 
Quickly Finance apologised for the poor service, and offered a 20% discount  on their 
success fee for Lender S. This reduced Mr Bs invoice from £2,353.92 to £1,883.14,  a 
discount of £470.78. 
Mr B brought his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. This complaint was originally 
investigated by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to the Claims Management  
Ombudsman (a Financial  Ombudsman service) as part of the change in the regulation of 
claims management companies. 
The investigator found that compensation  of £50 is reasonable for the poor service found. 
Quickly Finance said its offer to reduce the outstanding invoice by 20% is still open. Mr B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr B. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the remedy offered by 
Quickly Finance, and I wont be recommending Quickly Finance do anything more.  Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented  on any specific 
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN67780612As the decision Ive reached is different from the investigator, I could have sent a provisional 
decision explaining  why Ive reached a different  outcome.  But on this case  my outcome is 
the same  as the remedy already offered by Quickly Finance, and one which Mr B has 
already rejected. So Ive dealt with all the comments  received as part of this decision.  
Lender S
Ive seen that between February and December 2017 several claims packs were  sent to Mr 
B. Mr B returned his packs by normal post so theres no way of checking whether these 
packs were received by Quickly Finance.  I still think  10 months  to work out why Mr Bs claim 
pack hadnt been received caused  delay. I dont  think  Quickly Finance is responsible for 
causing the full 10 months  of delay, but Quickly Finance was aware that Mr B was trying to 
return a completed claim pack. I think Quickly  Finance couldve done more to reach out to 
Mr B to clarify why a claim pack hadnt been received on time. This couldve avoided  some 
of the delays on the claim. 
I also think Quickly Finance made an error  in cancelling Mr Bs claim incorrectly.  If Mr B 
hadnt contacted Quickly  Finance in April, its likely  his claim would have  remained closed. 
Even though  I think Quickly Finance  made an error, Ive seen that when the claim was re-
opened, a PPI questionnaire  was completed with Mr B, and sent to Lender  S. This resulted 
in the claim being  successful. So I still think Quickly  Finance is entitled to charge a success 
fee. When looking at the things which went wrong, I think the discount  offered already of 
£470.78 is fair. 
There were delays on the claim which Ive seen Quickly Finance was at least  partially 
responsible for, and it incorrectly cancelled Mr Bs claim. But Quickly  Finance also 
completed the PPI questionnaire with Mr B and it was because of its involvement that 
Lender S became aware of the claim. Although the claim was incorrectly  cancelled this didnt 
impact on the outcome  because the claim was still successful. So although  I accept the 
claim wasnt handled as well as it could have been, I think the remedy offered is fair. I wont 
be recommending  Quickly Finance do anymore that whats been  offered.
Lender C
Mr B says Quickly Finance should have done more to challenge Lender Cs decision. We 
would expect Quickly  Finance  to make enquiries with a lender, which it did. I cant  say it did 
anything wrong  in asking Mr B for evidence of PPI as there wasnt  much more  it could do to 
progress the claim  with the information it had. I think Quickly  Finance acted reasonably  so I 
wont be recommending  a remedy here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, although there was poor service in some areas, I think 
the remedy already  offered by Quickly  Finance Limited is fair, and I wont be recommending 
anything more. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67780613
Ref: DRN6778061