K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that LeasePlan UK Ltd charged  him for damages to a car at the end of his 
hire agreement.
background 
Mr B signed  a three year car hire agreement with LeasePlan UK in April 2015.  When  the car 
was collected  at the end of the contract, it was inspected and several scratches, dents and 
chips were found on the exterior of the car and the rear seats were stained. Some  of the 
scratches were too small to be chargeable, but the total costs were calculated  to be £509. 
Mr B signed  to say that he didnt agree with the costs or the damage,  but shortly afterwards 
he received a letter asking him to pay £509.00.
He complained to LeasePlan  and it reviewed the inspection report. It agreed to write off 
some of the charges, leaving the following:
Scratch to Primer (OSR Qtr Panel) £93.00
Stained Rear  seat £73.00
Total £166.00
After Mr B brought his complaint to us, he told us that LeasePlan had agreed to reduce the 
overall charge  to £132. LeasePlan said it hadnt offered a reduction but was willing  to do so 
to resolve the complaint. Our investigator  thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree saying,  in summary, that:
The watermark  on the rear seat was a fresh water stain that shouldnt be charged  for, just 
as other charges  have been written  off because they were unfair.
This would bring the total charge  to under £150  which the business guidelines say should 
be written off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire contract say that when the car is collected, the hirer is 
responsible for:
the costs  of repair or replacement of any part(s) or accessories where  such  repair  or 
replacement is required as a result of any loss or damage to the Vehicle which we think is in 
excess of Fair Wear and Tear, having  regard only to the age and mileage of the Vehicle
Ref: DRN66030632During the inspection,  photographs were taken and, having considered  these, Im satisfied 
that Mr B hasnt been unfairly charged. I say this because:
 The photo of scratch doesnt include a measurement. But I think it is fairly clear  from 
the photo that the scratch is more than 25mm  which is outside of the BVRLAs  fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
 The stain on the rear seat may only have  happened  on the day the car was collected 
as Mr B says.  Nevertheless the photo clearly  shows a large stain which would need to 
be removed, so I think its fair that LeasePlan charge for this.
The terms of the agreement say:
We will only ask for payment  where  such costs exceed £150.00.
LeasePlan has asked Mr B to pay £166.  It has agreed to write  off £34 which  brings the total 
amount to less than £150. But I dont think this means the remaining sum of £132  should be 
written off. I say this because LeasePlan agreed to write off £34 as a gesture of goodwill, not 
because the total charge was wrong. 
So overall I find that LeasePlan has not acted unfairly in asking Mr B to pay £132  for the 
damage to the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that LeasePlan should  reduce its charge  by £34 to leave Mr B with £132 
to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6603063