K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about delays and poor complaint handling by National House-Building 
Council (NHBC).
background 
Mr T bought  a new build  property which  was sold with a 10 year NHBC Buildmark  warranty. 
Mr T says that the roof of the property began  to leak in 2004.  And in September 2008, Mr T 
raised a claim with NHBC.  Shortly after this a resolution report was produced  instructing the 
builder to correct this issue. Unfortunately the builder didnt do this so NHBC took over the 
builders liability for the issue in March 2009, under the terms of the warranty.
In 2009 and 2010 NHBC carried  out works to repair the roof and the damage that had been 
caused by the ingress of water. And in November 2010 a certificate  of repair  was issued.  
Mr T reported further water stains to the ceiling shortly after but later confirmed the damage 
was old and caused by the previous issue.
In July 2012 Mr T contacted NHBC to say the leak had returned. Between 2012 and 2013 
NHBC appeared to be investigating the issue. Several appointments and reports noted that 
further investigations would need  to take place.  And there were some  issues  around a layer 
of roof covering that had been installed by a third party, which  NHBC said it wasnt  
responsible for  and which seemed to delay matters further. In 2013,  a report was issued 
which stated that NHBC  was not liable for the damage to the new roof covering  or the 
damage that may have been  caused  to the roof membrane as the result  of that installation.
The chain of events  between 2013  and 2016  is unclear as NHBC has been  unable to 
provide information  as it involves third party information which  it has no authority to release 
to this service without permission. But in January 2016, Mr T contacted  NHBC and informed 
it that the answer it gave in 2013  was incorrect and the issue  should have been addressed in 
2013. Later in 2016, NHBC appears to have accepted this and a new claim was opened.
After this time further remedial works  were undertaken and it seems they were completed  in 
November 2017.  During this time Mr T also raised concerns about his loss of earnings 
relating to the property due to the length  of time the claim  had been  ongoing.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said the claim hadnt 
been handled well. And it was clear  there  had been  a three year delay so he thought  the 
compensation should be increased from £400  to £1,400. NHBC agreed with our investigator. 
But Mr T didnt  agree  and thought the compensation should be increased significantly. So 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
This service has considered the issues up to 2011 in a separate  decision,  so this decision 
only covers the issues Mr T had with NHBC after this time.
Ref: DRN64247552Mr T has confirmed that the claim has now been  completed and he has been reimbursed for 
all his financial losses as a result  of this claim. So the only issue left for me to decide  is the 
amount of compensation that should  be award  for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr T by this matter.
Our compensation awards arent intended  to punish businesses or prevent them  from 
making the mistake  again. Rather,  our awards are intended to reflect the trouble and upset  
caused to a consumer as the result of an error  made by a business  in this case NHBC.
It is clear there have been delays in the handling of this case  and I can see from the 
correspondence that Mr T has had to spend  a great deal of time dealing with this case. But I 
also have to consider  that the issue itself was not the fault of NHBC as it didnt build the 
property. And once it stepped in to cover  the builders liabilities,  it was entitled to appoint  
third parties to carry out relevant  investigations and reports. And in this case, the issue was 
affected by the fact that this issue also involved another property.
But it is clear that NHBC changed  its stance  from the position it took in 2013.  The reasons 
for this are unclear but it does seem clear  that NHBC has accepted that its original position 
was incorrect, meaning that it caused a three-year delay to fixing the leak in Mr Ts property. 
And during this period,  I think  Mr T must  have  experienced a great  deal of distress at being 
told the leak wasnt covered by his NHBC policy.
I also think there were periods of time where  very little seemed to happen and where 
appointments were  repeatedly cancelled, which delayed matters  even further.  And I think  
NHBC could have done more to proactively manage this claim which would have prevented  
some of the delays Mr T experienced.  
So taking everything into account I think NHBC should pay Mr T a total of £1,400  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused to him as a result of its handling  
of this claim.
I understand that Mr T also has concerns about  NHBCs  conduct  more widely but we arent  
able to address  those  at this service as we arent the regulator  and our role is to consider the 
individual circumstances  of each complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National House-Building Council should pay 
Mr T a total of £1,400 compensation, including the £400 it originally offered him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6424755