K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bamboo  Limited didnt carry out enough  checks  before approving his 
loan application.
background
In 2018, Mr T applied to Bamboo for a loan. He applied online and the loan was approved. 
He had difficulty making some payments on time early on. But overall he managed to keep 
on top of the payments until 2019, when he complained to Bamboo that the loan is 
unaffordable. He has since entered into a Debt Management Plan.
Mr T says that, at the time he applied  for the loan, he already had outstanding loans with 
other lenders and his credit score  was poor.  He says that Bamboo  didnt  carry out enough 
checks before approving  the loan. If theyd  done more, he says they would have realised the 
loan was unaffordable, particularly in light of his gambling addiction  which  he says they 
should have noticed. He wants  Bamboo  to refund the interest  he has paid to date and also to 
freeze the interest  on the outstanding balance with no negative impact  on his credit  file.
Bamboo didnt  uphold the complaint. They say they made enough checks  and that the loan 
was affordable based on the information available  to them  at the time. They say Mr T passed 
their automated checks and they carried out creditworthiness and affordability assessments. 
Bamboo say they wouldnt  have approved the loan if theyd  been  aware  of Mr Ts gambling 
addiction. But they say they didnt  know about  it until he brought  his complaint. They say 
that, as Mr T had passed their automated checks,  they didnt need to ask for any documents 
and so they didnt see anything which could  have alerted them to a gambling  issue.
Mr T wasnt happy with Bamboos response so he brought his complaint to this service. 
When our adjudicator looked  into it, he thought  Bamboo had acted  fairly.  But Mr T didnt  
accept the adjudicators view and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When assessing a customer  for lending, there arent set checks which  a lender  has to do. 
But Id expect them to perform checks which are proportionate in each case, taking  account  
of things like the size of the loan, the amount  of the repayments and what  they know  about  
the customer.
In Mr Ts case, Bamboo looked at data from one of the credit  reference agencies as well as 
the information hed provided in his application.  They used this information  to carry out their 
own calculations and assessment using their internal decision-making criteria. I think the 
combination of internal and external data here gave them enough of an overview  of Mr Ts 
financial position at that time to make a decision. From the information  available to me, Im 
satisfied that Bamboo  did enough checks here.  What I need to look at next is whether, 
having carried out their checks, Bamboos assessment of the information was reasonable.
Bamboo performed  calculations  to assess the affordability of the loan. They  didnt request 
proof of income from Mr T but theyve said they didnt need to because they had confirmed 
Ref: DRN63071672his income was sufficient  using external  data.  I think thats  a reasonable explanation and a 
proportionate approach  here. 
They concluded that the loan would be affordable, as their calculations  showed that Mr Ts 
disposable income was enough  to make the payments on the loan. Based on the information 
available to them at the time, I think it was reasonable  for them  to draw that conclusion.
Bamboo were aware of the unsecured balances Mr T owed on other accounts at the time of 
the application. But they say these were all active accounts and that Mr T was within  the 
agreed limits on his credit cards and mail order account. They were also aware  of the 
existing payday  loans but say that Mr T had confirmed he would settle  them within  two 
months (which they judged he would be able to do) and that he didnt expect his financial 
situation to get worse  in the near future. They also knew that Mr T had used multiple payday 
loans before, but the vast majority of them had been settled, many several years before. So 
they werent concerned by this and I think that was a reasonable approach  for them to take.
Mr T says he thinks Bamboo should  have  asked for his bank statements. If theyd  done  so, 
he says they would have been  aware  of his gambling issue.  As I said above, I think  Bamboo  
carried out enough checks before approving the loan. I dont think they needed to ask for 
bank statements as well. 
The purpose of the loan was said to be for home  improvements. Bamboos  affordability 
assessment showed  that Mr T would be able to meet the payments.  And the information on 
his credit file didnt give Bamboo cause  for concern. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Mr T told Bamboo  about his gambling addiction before bringing this complaint. So I dont 
think its reasonable to expect them  to have known about it.
I understand that Mr Ts circumstances have changed since he took out the loan. I 
sympathise with his situation, but I have  to look at whether the loan was affordable at the 
time Bamboo made their decision to lend. They based their decision on the information 
which was available  at the time of Mr Ts application. At that time, their assessment was that 
the loan was affordable and I think that was a reasonable conclusion.
Bamboo are now aware of Mr Ts current situation  and say theyre  willing to work with him. 
Theyve said they will cap the total amount  to be repaid at the amount set out in the loan 
agreement, meaning  they wont apply additional interest or charges. I think thats a 
reasonable approach. But I dont think Bamboo acted unfairly  by approving  the loan, so Im 
not going to ask them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6307167