K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as a driver. He has told us he wasnt  entitled to any sick pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying his credit card should he be unable to work. 
Mr D has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
The policy documents that applied  to Mr D are no longer available. I dont think  thats 
surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. But I have looked at the nearest available  
comparable policy which I think is the same as, or at least similar to, the policy that wouldve 
applied to Mr D, to help me decide this case. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ds credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit  card account  closed on 2 April 2008.
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr D and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN68886472The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2 April 2008. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN68886473I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ds case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ds complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr D know  he had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN68886474BOS has provided a copy of the postal application form Mr D used to apply for his credit card 
and PPI. On this form, customers had to tick a box requesting PPI cover.  I can see this box 
has been ticked on Mr Ds form and he has signed  the form to confirm the selections made. 
There was nothing on this form that indicated taking  PPI was compulsory. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr D knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
Both BOS and Mr D agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  BOS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr D. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr D to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
BOS has provided us with Mr Ds application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says he wouldve received,  including the 
nearest available policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities   
applied to policies  like Mr Ds. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr D at the time, I dont think BOS gave Mr D the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form gave Mr D limited  information about the 
PPI but it did tell him about a sample  policy that was available  for him to read. I think its 
unlikely Mr D would have  agreed to take it out without at least having a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  And I think its 
unlikely Mr D would have  thought it was free.
But it was BOSs responsibility to draw  to Mr Ds attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded BOS did enough to do this. For example,  I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr D, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BOS  adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think BOS  gave  Mr D sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN68886475I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr D? To what extent did Mr D suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr D. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr D suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr D would have still 
taken out the policy,  had BOS done  things properly.  
Mr D says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr D had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr D thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr D ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that BOS didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mr D didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
Ref: DRN68886476what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr D knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or for which he had 
consulted a doctor about during the 12 months before the start date of the policy. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr D pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr D didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. Mr D has mentioned a 
health problem  he had a few years  after the sale of the policy,  but this wouldnt have affected 
his ability  to claim. So, I still think he had some  good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr D would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr D needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected to make a claim. It 
seems unlikely he would have thought hed be able to make a successful  claim if he was still 
working. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN68886477the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr D would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr D 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr D compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BOSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr D and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN68886478my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6888647