K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that The New India Assurance  Company Limited  cancelled  his motor  
insurance policy from the start (voided  it) and declined his claim. Hes also unhappy that it 
didnt return his car to him as soon as it should.  He wants  compensation for the losses  he 
incurred.
background 
When Mr W made a claim New India discovered that he hadnt  disclosed previous claims 
made by the named driver  when he took out the policy. It said it wouldnt have offered cover 
if it had known of these. So it voided the policy, declined  the claim and returned Mr Ws 
premiums. But New India didnt return Mr Ws car for some months and he said he had to 
buy a new one and lost work. New India offered him £50 compensation for this but Mr W 
wanted further compensation as he said hed had to buy a new car on finance. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought it 
was fair and reasonable for New India  to void the policy and decline the claim.  He thought it 
was likely that Mr W would have had to buy a new car in any case. But he thought  New India  
should pay Mr W £100 in total compensation for its delays in returning his car. 
New India agreed to do this. But Mr W thought he could have repaired the car himself  if it 
had been returned earlier and hed been forced to buy a new car. He wanted £20 a day for 
the time New India retained his car. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
take into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear question  when 
the policy was taken out. If its a renewal, we check that the consumer confirmed or 
amended details previously given. We check  that the information given would affect whether 
a policy  was offered.  And we check whether the informant  has acted carelessly or 
deliberately in making the misrepresentation.
Mr Ws policy autorenewed. He was sent a renewal pack  by his broker  that asked him to 
check that all the information hed provided  was correct and to contact  it if there were any 
problems. It warned that incorrect information  could lead to the policy being cancelled  and 
claims declined. 
The information Mr W had provided was set out on the Statement of Fact. This gave the 
details of himself and the named driver.  And then there is a section headed Claims Details  
(All Drivers) Details of any claims or losses (irrespective of blame and whether a claim 
resulted) which you or any other  person who will drive have been involved in
within the last 5 years.
Mr Ws previous  claims are disclosed, but not the named drivers. Mr W was asked to check 
the accuracy of the information provided. He said he wrote  to his broker about a recent  claim 
made by the named driver. But I cant see that he disclosed all the claims or losses  shed 
had within  the past five years. 
Ref: DRN65469492So I think Mr W failed  to comply with New Indias request  to amend the policy  particulars to 
ensure that they were accurate. So I think, under  the relevant legislation,  he made a 
misrepresentation.
New India has provided us with evidence from its underwriters that cover would not be 
offered if there had been three or more  claims for the drivers on the policy within the 
previous three years. Mr W disclosed that he had one claim within  this time. But, as Ive 
seen from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), the named driver had three claims  
within the previous  three years. But they werent  disclosed to New India when the policy  was 
taken out. 
So I think, under the relevant legislation, New India was entitled to void the policy  and 
decline the claim. I think New India reasonably returned Mr Ws policy  premiums.  
I can see that it took New India two months  to assess Mr Ws car, and then start the process  
of voiding the policy. I think it should  have returned  Mr Ws car to him when  the underwriters 
decided to void the policy and decline the claim.  This was two months after the accident.  But 
the car wasnt returned to Mr W for a further  two months.
New India agreed that it had held Mr Ws car for two months  after it should have instructed 
its repairer to return it. I think it was reasonable for New India to keep the car until it made its 
decision to decline the claim. But it then should have returned it. When a business makes  a 
mistake, as New India has done  here,  then we expect  it to restore  the consumers position 
as far as its possible to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the 
consumer.
Mr Ws car had been assessed by an engineer  as beyond economical repair and not 
driveable. Mr W said he could have repaired it and as the car wasnt returned to him earlier,  
then he had to buy a new one. But I think it was Mr Ws decision to buy a new car and, as 
his car was not driveable, I think,  on balance, he would have replaced it in any case. So I 
cant reasonably  hold New India responsible for this. 
Mr W wanted New India to pay him £20 for each day it had his car. He said this is what 
companies charge  for storage. But I dont think thats fair and reasonable. New India has 
agreed to pay Mr W £100 compensation for the delay in returning his car. I think  thats in 
keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances.  So I dont require New India to 
increase this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require The New India Assurance  
Company Limited  to may Mr W £100 in total compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delays in returning  his car, as its already  agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Ref: DRN65469493Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6546949