K822xcomplaint
Miss D, complaining on behalf of the estate  of the late Mrs O, is unhappy with the increases 
in premiums on Mrs Os home insurance with Aviva Insurance Limited.
background 
Mrs Os insurance  policy  with Aviva  started in 1990  when she took out an equity release 
mortgage. The available data shows that in 2001 the premium was £289  for the year.  The 
next year, 2002, Miss Ds insurance cost £306. 
In 2013, the premium was £603.  At this time, Miss D found insurance much  cheaper 
elsewhere and made  a complaint. She felt that the price was excessive  and asked for a 
refund.
Aviva reviewed the premiums paid for Mrs Os insurance, which it said was a block policy. 
Aviva said the premiums were set based on Mrs Os buildings  sum insured (as determined 
by a surveyor when  Mrs O took out the mortgage) and the location of the property. The 
buildings sum insured  shouldve increased  at the same rate as an index provided by the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). 
Aviva found  that in four of the policy years  the sum insured hadnt changed in line with the 
RICS index  and the price charged  was a small amount more because  of this. As such,  Aviva  
offered to refund the extra paid over the RICS  index rates,  plus interest for the time Mrs O 
and her estate had been without that money.  It also offered an additional  £100  
compensation. 
Our adjudicator thought this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Miss D disagreed,  so 
Ive been asked to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided that Avivas 
offer is fair and reasonable.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Aviva  has treated Miss D fairly 
throughout the period  she held her insurance policy. If I find that Aviva  hasnt treated Mrs O 
and her estate fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be fair and, in this case, 
whether I think what Aviva  has offered is fair.
Because Mrs O held the insurance policy for so long, the information about what she paid 
only goes back as far as 2001. Thats understandable given  that financial businesses  are not 
obliged to keep  this sort of information forever.  And I wouldnt expect a customer to have 
kept their records that long either.  But it means we dont know what Mrs O paid for her 
insurance before 2001. Because of this, I cant reasonably conclude that she was treated 
unfairly before then.  
Ref: DRN65682872Miss Ds home insurance was a block policy. Block polices  are home  insurance  policies 
that are risk-assessed as a block  of properties  rather than for an individual  property. These 
block policies werent manually underwritten. Instead they were automatically  rated  using a 
combination of a buildings sum insured rate and the location of the property.  The sum 
insured was index  linked and increased  using property data from RICS.
Its generally up to each insurer to decide how much it wants to charge for its policies and 
the terms and conditions of a block policy would  include  how premiums  were set. In this 
case, as long as the increases were in line with the contract and the price was made  clear,  I 
wouldnt suggest that the premiums shouldve been set in a different way.
Aviva has identified some years when the price didnt increase at the same rate as the RICS 
index and has offered  to refund the increases above the index rate. I think  that Avivas  offer 
of settlement  is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  this complaint, because it refunds the 
amounts that were  charged over the RICS index rate and provides compensation for the 
time Aviva had this money. Thats in line with what I would award  in this case  if Aviva hadnt 
made any offer. Avivas offer also provides additional compensation of £100.  
I know that Miss D obtained insurance much cheaper elsewhere, which  is what  prompted 
her to complain. I can understand why this would make her think Mrs O had been treated 
unfairly. But insurers often  include discounts in order to obtain new customers. The lower  
price she found is likely to include a new customer discount, which means she might have 
paid less than the true cost of providing  the insurance policy.  Its also unlikely that the new 
policy is underwritten in the same way as the old policy or offers identical benefits. 
In addition to this, each insurer will view risk  and what they want to charge  differently.  
And have  differing costs that the premiums must cover, and profit margins they want  to 
achieve. So, I dont  think the price of the new policy provides a fair comparison to the 
amounts Mrs O paid for her insurance.  
Miss D also appears to have assumed that Mrs O was paying about £600 per year 
since 1990. That wasnt the case.  As mentioned above, the premium in 2001 was £289.  And 
the premium increased over time to the level it was in 2013. So, I hope this will provide some  
reassurance.
I appreciate that Miss D is extremely disappointed with the offer of settlement, as the amount 
is low relative  to what Mrs O paid for her insurance. And Mrs D had other concerns relating 
to the equity release mortgage,  which have been looked at by this service  separately.  But, 
for the reasons Ive explained above,  I think that Avivas offer is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided that Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer of 
settlement is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already done so, Aviva Insurance Limited 
should:
Refund the difference between what Mrs O paid and what  she wouldve paid if the 
premium cost changed in line with the RICS index (in line with its existing offer).
Ref: DRN65682873Add interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mrs O paid the premiums until the date 
of the refund. 
In addition to the above, pay £100 compensation.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest.  Aviva  must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6568287