K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy that a car supplied to her through a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited, trading  as Moneybarn, was of an unsatisfactory  quality.
background
In October  2018, Ms P was supplied with a used  car through  a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement  was for £4,628 over 52 months,  with monthly repayments 
of £191.35. At the time the car was 7 years old and had done 84,422 miles. The dealership  
who sourced the car offered a limited 3-month  warranty.
The car broke down  in December 2018. Ms P says this was because the Diesel Particulate 
Filter (DPF), which filtered  out soot in the exhaust,  was blocked. The dealership  examined  
the car and replaced the fuel injector under warranty. The dealership said this was the issue,  
not the DPF.
But Ms P then said the car was making a noise  when driven at 60-65mph.  She took it back 
to the dealership, who said it was a worn wheel  bearing which  wasnt  covered by the 
warranty. On 29 January 2019  Ms P complained  to Moneybarn saying:
The issue with the DPF hadnt  been  fixed when the dealership  repaired  the car under  
warranty.
The dealership  said there was a worn wheel bearing issue,  but the bearings werent 
showing as an advisory on the MOT.  Ms P believed the juddering  was to do with the 
DPF as the DPF warning light was illuminated.
One of the tyres blew out, and another had to be replaced  because of illegal tread 
depth, but the tyres werent  an advisory on the MOT either.
Moneybarn didnt accept  the faults  had been present, or were developing,  when  Ms P was 
sold the car. So they arranged for an independent  engineer to inspect the car. The engineer  
agreed there  were  faults with the car but said these werent present when it was supplied  to 
Ms P. Ms P didnt  agree  with the engineer. She said she took the car to a garage in April 
2019 and had been told the faults  would  cost between £2,500 and £4,000 to fix.
But Moneybarn said the engine faults,  DPF and tyres were  wear and tear items which  were  
Ms Ps responsibility not theirs. They also say the car had done over 10,000 miles before 
any concerns were raised with them, which was sufficient mileage for wear  and tear to 
occur. So they didnt  think any faults  were present when Ms P was supplied  with the car, and 
they didnt think  they should do anything more.
Ms P was still unhappy  and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
adjudicator thought that the faults  on Ms Ps car were attributable to normal  wear and tear. 
So she didnt think Moneybarn had done anything wrong by not fixing the faults  or allowing  
Ms P to reject the car.
Ms P didnt agree with the adjudicator and she sent in some  additional  evidence  relating to 
the tyres   a letter from a garage saying  the rear tyres had been below the legal limit and 
this was the cause of the car juddering  at high speeds, not a worn wheel bearing. The 
adjudicator didnt think this made a difference to her initial view and issued a second  view 
explaining why.
Ref: DRN67798292Ms P still didnt agree with the adjudicator, providing her comments  why. Shes asked that an 
ombudsman review her complaint and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Ms P was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means 
were able to look into complaints  about it. 
The relevant  law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  - says,  amongst other things,  that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price,  description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage  
at the time of sale; and the vehicles  history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months,  its assumed 
that the fault was present  when the car was supplied. But this doesnt apply where its 
established the goods confirmed to contract  when they were  supplied, for example where 
the fault is the result of wear  and tear. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Ms P took 
possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
When Ms P took possession of the car, it was 7 years old and had done 84,422 miles. Id 
expect wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And I think  any reasonable 
person would expect  to have to repair or replace  some parts  of the car over time.
Its not disputed  there  were some issues with the car. It was inspected by an independent 
engineer on 11 April 2019 (10 weeks after Ms P reported the faults to Moneybarn) when its 
mileage was recorded as being 94,574.  This means  the car had travelled  10,152  miles 
between supply and inspection. 
But Ms Ps car first broke down on 29 December 2018, with mileage of 89,216 according to 
the breakdown  report. So itd done  4,794  miles since supply. And it did a further 191 miles in 
the 30 days between  the first breakdown  and the second breakdown  this was so low 
because the car had been with the dealership for repair for the majority of the time.
At the time of the second breakdown, which happened on 28 January 2019, the recorded 
mileage was 89,407,  meaning that the car had travelled 4,985 miles when the issues  were 
reported to Moneybarn the following day. And, as the independent engineer was only 
considering the faults Ms P has reported in January  2019, its reasonable to conclude that 
these faults had become obvious within the first 5,000 miles.
Ref: DRN67798293The independent engineer concluded  that the DPF filter was blocked, and other faults were  
present, but no faults occurred during the road test. The engineer also said that the faults 
were not developing at the point of the finance  inception. But, crucially, the engineer 
considered the faults were wear and tear items  that had happened within the first 10,000 
miles, and not the first 5,000 miles as was actually  the case.
I asked Moneybarn to provide  an updated report from the independent engineer, saying  
whether the mileage at the time of the second  breakdown changed their view about when 
the faults started developing. Moneybarn did this and the engineer said we confirm that we 
see no reason to change our report as the miles are still excessive.
The engineer is independent of both Moneybarn and Ms P. And the declaration  on their 
report that explains their duty is to the courts, and this over-rides any obligation to whoever 
requested the report and/or pays for it. Because of this, Im satisfied  that its reasonable to 
rely on the conclusions  of the independent  engineer   that the faults werent present when 
the car was supplied  to Ms P, and that they result  from wear and tear due to mileage.
Turning to the issue of the tyres  Ive seen that, on 3 October 2018,  the car failed  an MOT 
because both rear tyres  were below the legal  limit. But the car passed an MOT  the following 
day, so the tyres must have been  changed. But I cant say whether they were  changed  for 
new or part worn tyres, and if it was new tyres, what quality of new tyres had been put on. 
But the car had done 4,985 miles between the MOT and the tyre blowing. And not knowing 
what type of tyres had been put on, I cant say conclusively  that the tyre issue wasnt wear 
and tear. The juddering stopped when the tyres were replaced  and juddering at high speed  
is a symptom of worn tyres. So I believe the dealership misdiagnosed the tyre wear  as a 
wheel bearing  issue. But this doesnt mean that either the dealership  or Moneybarn  are 
responsible for the tyre blowing.
Because of the above, Im also satisfied that Moneybarn dont need to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about  Moneybarn  No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6779829