K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her claim 
under her car insurance policy and is unhappy with the service she received.
background
Mr M  a named driver on Mrs Ms car insurance  accidentally  collided with another car in 
October 2017. The damage  to Mrs Ms car was enough for Advantage to write  off the car. 
Advantage paid Mrs M the pre-accident market value for the car within  two weeks of her 
notifying the insurer about the accident. 
But Mrs M had expected a loan car whilst Advantage assessed her car and it was off the 
road. Advantage refused  the loan car and Mrs M complained.  She also complained  about  
the time it took for her damaged car to be collected by the insurer. 
Advantage answered Mrs Ms complaint in November 2017. It accepted it made a mistake 
when it sold her the policy and that the guaranteed  loan car extension shouldve  been added 
to her policy. But, Advantage  explained  that under  the terms of guaranteed  loan car 
extension, Mrs M still wouldnt have got a loan car because  the third party  involved in the 
accident was disputing liability. Advantage did however accept the standard  of its service 
had fallen short and paid £150  compensation for the upset this had caused  Mrs M.
Advantage told Mrs M she could bring her complaint to us if she was still unhappy and that 
she had six months in which to do so. But Mrs M didnt bring a complaint to us in that time.
Although Advantage had paid out for the loss of her car, Mrs M was unhappy at the time it 
was taking to establish  liability with the third party insurer. So she complained about this to 
Advantage in February 2018.  In answering this second complaint, Advantage reviewed  
Mrs Ms claims file. Advantage  wrote to Mrs M explaining that it would attempt to settle  the 
claim with the other insurer  on a split liability basis.
Advantage accepted there  were  avoidable  delays in its claims handling.  And it paid Mrs M 
£50 compensation  for the upset this had caused. Advantage again told Mrs M she could 
bring her complaint  to us within six months (of its e-mail dated  6 February 2018).
Still unhappy at the time it was taking to settle  the claim, Mrs M continued to complain. In 
June 2018, Advantage agreed  the ongoing delays in its claims handling was unacceptable.  
And it paid Mrs M a further £100  compensation for the upset this had caused   bringing the 
total compensation it paid for poor service to £300.
Advantage again told Mrs M she could bring  her complaint to us within six months (of its e-
mail dated 6 February  2018)  which  she did at this time.
Advantage wrote to Mrs M in October 2018  to explain that because it was unable  to prove 
that the other driver  was at fault, it had conceded  liability. The letter  also explained  it had 
attempted to settle the claim with the other insurer on a split liability  basis  but agreement 
couldnt be reached. It didnt think it had a strong enough case  to take any further action and 
proceed with litigation.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
£300 compensation Advantage had paid for poor service was fair and reasonable. She also 
Ref: DRN61998332thought that Advantage  could defend  or accept liability  for a claim under its policy terms. So 
she didnt find that Advantage  needed  to do more.
Mrs M disagrees  and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  She 
had understood  the £150 compensation Advantage paid in November 2017 was for mis-
selling the policy and not poor service. But now accepting it was for poor service, she wants  
the sale of the policy  looked at. And she considers  the £300 inadequate compensation for 
Advantages failings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs M wants me to look into the sale of her policy and in particular the guaranteed  
loan car extension. But that wasnt part of the complaint she brought to us in June 2018, 
which is about delays  in Advantages handling of her claim. I accept Advantage looked into 
and answered  her complaint about the guaranteed loan car extension in November 2017 
and it allowed her six months in which to refer the matter to us. Even if she had included  it as 
part of the complaint were now considering, it couldve been  too late by June 2018. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mrs M but I dont have the power  to look into matters concerning the sale of her 
policy as part of this decision.
Advantage agrees the delays in its handling of Mrs Ms claim were unacceptable and its 
level of service fell short.  And for these reasons, it paid Mrs M £300  compensation. As 
Advantage accepts  there were avoidable  delays, Im therefore  left to consider whether  the 
amount of compensation is fair in the circumstances of the complaint. I think  it is  Ill explain 
why.
The accident  happened  in October 2017  and Advantage didnt attempt to settle the claim on 
a 50/50 basis  until February 2018.  Insurers have a responsibility to settle claims in a 
reasonable time and Advantage accepts it is responsible for some avoidable delays. I can 
understand Mrs Ms frustration at the amount of time the claim was taking to resolve but I 
dont find it unusual given  that both Mr M (driving  at the time of the accident) and the other 
driver said each other was the blame. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms policy allow Advantage to take over the defence  or 
settlement of a claim against her policy. This might mean that Advantage makes a decision  
that Mrs M disagrees with but the policy  allows it to do so. Advantage  said it made its 
decision to settle  the claim on a full fault basis because it didnt think it could prove Mr M 
wasnt to blame if the case went to court.  But that wasnt before Advantage attempted  to 
defend the claim  and hold the other driver partly at fault for the accident. This all takes  time 
and Advantage  had to wait on the third party insurer to make  its position known. So not all of 
the delay was under Advantages control. 
Both parties  agree Advantage couldve done more to keep Mrs M updated and she shouldnt 
have had to chase the insurer  as regularly as she did. The only dispute is over the amount of 
compensation. Mrs M told our investigator  she wouldve accepted £300 compensation for 
the poor service  in addition to £150 compensation for her complaint about the sale. Ive 
studied the three responses in which Advantage agreed to pay £150, £50 and £100 
compensation  and as far I can see, the payments  were only intended  to compensate  for 
the shortcomings in its service.
Ref: DRN61998333Overall, I agree  Advantage paid a fair amount. The distress and inconvenience of having  to 
continuously chase  up and provide submissions to support  the claim was significant, and 
£300 is reasonable in the circumstances.  
With all of the above in mind,  Im not persuaded  Advantage needs to do anything more  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6199833