K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down their claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
Although Mr G has brought the complaint, the policy covered both Mr and Mrs G because  it 
was linked to their joint current account,  and the claim was for their holiday. So Mrs G has 
now joined  in the complaint.
background
Mr and Mrs G have travel insurance with UKI linked to their current  account. In August 2017 
they booked a trip abroad, and were due to travel in early December 2017. 
Unfortunately in November 2017 Mr G suffered  two heart attacks. His doctor  advised  him not 
to travel for at least six weeks,  so he and Mrs G cancelled their holiday.  They  made a claim 
to UKI for the cancellation cost of around £600.
UKI turned down  the claim. It said it had asked Mr G some questions  about his health  before 
his November heart attacks.  Mr G hadnt  given it all the information  it needed  about  his 
health, and hed decided not to cover the medical  issues hed told it about.  UKI later found 
out that Mr G was taking  medication for two heart  conditions diagnosed in 2003 and 2013. It 
says its unlikely it would have offered to cover him at all if it had known about  that. So UKI 
turned down the claim.
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said hed been taking medicine to prevent rather than treat 
medical conditions.  He came to us. 
Our adjudicator ultimately upheld Mr Gs complaint. She said Mr G had offered to list all his 
prescription medication to UKI but it had said this wasnt necessary. She thought  a fair 
outcome was for UKI to pay the claim, with interest,  together with £100  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
UKI accepted its call handler could have questioned Mr G about his medical conditions  more 
carefully. But even  if she had, Mr G had decided not to pay the additional premium to cover  
the conditions  hed mentioned, so UKI says hes unlikely to have paid a higher  amount to 
cover all his conditions. As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaints come to me 
for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy is linked to their bank account. In September  2017 Mr G called UKI to 
upgrade the account because of his wifes  age (called an age extension) and also to talk 
about medical conditions. 
the relevant consumer law
Ref: DRN60233212UKI asked  Mr G some questions about  his health  and Mrs Gs health. Where an insurer  asks 
questions before an insurance policy  is arranged  a specific consumer law applies, called the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 or CIDRA. 
Under CIDRA a consumer must take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to 
the insurer, in response  to the insurers clear and specific questions. 
If the consumer doesnt  take reasonable care in answering the insurers  questions the 
insurer can refuse to pay the claim or can pay it proportionately. To do this the insurer must 
show that it either wouldnt have covered the consumer  a policy  at all or would have done so 
on different terms. 
what questions did UKI ask Mr G?
UKI asked  Mr G three main questions to answer for himself and his wife:
UKI: Is either  of you receiving any in-patient  treatment or waiting to receive  any treatment?
Mr G: No
UKI: Have either of you been diagnosed with a heart or cancer related condition  in the past 
twelve months only?
Mr G: No
UKI: And have you been prescribed medication in the last twelve  months, whether  taking  it 
or not including  repeat  prescriptions.  So do you both take medication sir?
Mr G: I do.
did Mr G take reasonable care in answering UKIs questions?
Mr G had had a heart procedure (a triple bypass) in the 1990s. In 2003 hed been diagnosed 
with a heart condition  called  unstable  angina and in 2013 with acute  coronary syndrome. 
None of these  heart  conditions  had been  diagnosed in the past  twelve months  only . So he 
didnt have to tell UKI about them in response to its second question above. 
But I think the central issue in this case  is around  the third question UKI asked about 
prescription medication, including  repeat  prescriptions, and the supplementary  questions.
the medical evidence
The medical certificate completed by Mr Gs GP said that in the twelve  months before the 
trip was booked or the insurance policy was taken out with UKI Mr G had been prescribed 
three medications. These  were aspirin,  a statin and a medication called ramipril. Ramipril 
can be used either to prevent or treat conditions  including high blood pressure and heart  
failure. 
At Mr Gs request  his GP wrote  to UKI to clarify  that hed been  prescribed preventative  
medication in the form of aspirin, bisoprolol  and a statin tablet. (I understand bisoprolol  can 
also be used to prevent  or treat high blood  pressure or heart failure). The dosage  of 
bisoprolol had been reduced. The GP said Mr G argued hed not had chest pain the previous 
twelve months before booking his holiday or buying  the insurance.  Since  the November 
2017 heart attacks, the GP said Mr G had been started on a GTN pump (used for angina) 
which hed previously used in May and June 2011. Hed also been re-started on other 
medications  bisoprolol and clopidogrel  (a blood thinning medication).  
Ref: DRN60233213the questions  about prescription medication
So Ive considered whether Mr G took reasonable care in answering UKIs third question  
about prescription medication and its supplementary questions. 
Mr G told UKI he took preventative medication,  mainly for prevention  of cholesterol and high 
blood pressure.  UKI asked him what diagnosed conditions  he took the medication  for.
Mr G said he didnt know what the other medication was all for, and asked whether he 
should read them all out to UKI - that is, the list of his medication. The call handler said she 
didnt need them all because  they could be given for so many different things, and that was 
why she needed  to know the conditions  he took them for. Mr G told her about a medication 
for indigestion and one for a nerve condition. He said that was all for the cholesterol  and 
blood pressure,  and they discussed whether hed had raised levels  for either. He said he did 
for cholesterol but not for blood  pressure.  
The call handler put blood pressure medication down as precautionary. Mr G commented 
that another  insurance company might say he did have high blood pressure even though it 
was a precaution,  and mentioned he took aspirin to thin his blood, but that didnt mean  he 
had thick  blood. 
The call handler asked  more questions about the indigestion and about  the neuropathy 
(nerve issue),  which  Mr G said was in his leg. As UKI has acknowledged, its call handler  
could have questioned Mr G about his medical conditions more  carefully.  
I think Mr G did his best to answer the questions UKI did ask him with reasonable care.  He 
told UKI that he did take prescription medication.  He named some of the medication  and he 
offered to list all the medication. He said that he didnt  know why he was taking all the 
medication but he thought it was preventative. Based on his GPs comments that seems  to 
be correct. UKI had the opportunity to ask Mr G for all the medication but it turned down his 
offer to list it. It could  also have asked him to contact his GP because he wasnt  sure what  he 
was taking all the medication for. I think Mr G answered UKIs questions to his reasonable 
knowledge and belief. 
As Mr G answered UKIs questions with reasonable care this means  he didnt make a 
misrepresentation to it. And in any event UKI hasnt  given us any firm underwriting evidence  
that it wouldnt have  covered  him at all if it had know about his heart conditions.  So even if 
Id found there was a misrepresentation there wasnt any qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. 
UKI has argued that Mr G might not have  paid any additional premium  in any event, because 
he didnt make pay the premium to be covered  for the conditions of cholesterol, the 
indigestion and the neuropathy. UKI told him he could choose not to cover them but it would 
mean he wasnt covered  for any claims directly related to them, but that he was covered for 
everything else. 
I dont think UKI was clear  about  the consequences  to Mr G if he didnt pay the additional 
premium. This was because it hadnt  asked him clear questions about  his medical 
conditions, which he didnt seem  to fully understand  as he told UKI he wasnt clear  about 
what conditions he took medication for during the September 2017 call. If it had questioned  
him more  carefully,  then he might have made a different decision about covering his health 
conditions. In a later call in which UKI screened his medical conditions after his heart attack 
Ref: DRN60233214it asked him for much more specific information about his health.  And he asked for details of 
another company which might cover  him. 
Having carefully reviewed all the evidence, I agree with our adjudicator  that the fair outcome 
is for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim, subject to the policy  limit and any applicable 
excesses, and to add 8% simple interest  to the claim  payment  as set out below. I also agree 
that Mr and Mrs G have  suffered distress  and inconvenience due to UKIs decision not to 
pay the claim. I assess £100 compensation is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I order U K Insurance  Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs Gs cancellation claim, subject to the policy  excess and any 
applicable excesses.  UKI must add interest* at the simple rate of 8% simple  from the 
date of claim to the date it pays them; and
pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
UKI must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs G accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay simple  interest* on 
the compensation at 8% per year from the date of my final decision until the date of 
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should  
also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6023321