K822xcomplaint
Mr B complained about advice given by Broadlands  Partnership to transfer his pension  
benefits to a new SIPP. He says that the advice did not consider the suitability of the 
investment that he intended to make.
background 
I issued my provisional decision for this complaint in April 2019. I set out the background to 
the complaint  in that document. In summary, I set out the background as follows:
Mr B had a pension set up in 1999 as a Small  Self-Administered  Scheme (SSAS).  This was 
on the advice  of Mr M who worked for a different  firm of advisers.  The intention was for Mr B 
to use the funds to buy a commercial property and use it for his business.
In 2004 Mr B was unhappy with changes to the SSAS provider. This was discussed with 
Mr M, who by then was no longer authorised  to advise on pensions. It was at that point Mr M 
introduced Mr B to Mr P who worked for another firm of advisers. The pension was then 
transferred to a new Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP)  with Standard Life. During this 
time rental income from the property  was building up in the pension bank account to a total 
of about £70,000.
In mid to late 2010 Mr M suggested that Mr B should  look to invest the money in his pension  
bank account.  By this time Mr M was running a company  I will refer to as A. Mr M invited 
Mr B to a Harlequin properties presentation in his offices. Mr B was also later shown  the 
Sustainable Agroenergy (SGG) and Global  Forestry  investments.
Mr B told us that Mr M explained that he was acting  as an agent for Harlequin  properties and 
Mr M had bought a Harlequin property himself. Mr P had just set up a new SIPP  for Mr B. By 
this time Mr P was with Broadlands Partnership.
A copy of a suitability letter dated 29 April 2011 was addressed to Mr B, but he says he 
didnt receive it. The letter explained  that Mr B was married, and earning £33,000. He had a 
SIPP with a commercial  property. This had been used as an office  for Mr Bs business.  The 
rental income was paid back into the SIPP in cash.
The advice from Broadlands was to transfer  to a SIPP with Alltrust.  Mr B acted  on that 
advice and transferred  to a new SIPP. A Supplemental Deed was completed on 
9 May 2011.  This was witnessed and signed by Mr M.
There was a delay  before the transfer  was completed.  The property in the SIPP was 
transferred in-specie. And about £60,000 was transferred  in cash.  
In December 2011, the SIPP was used to invest about £35,875 in Belem  Sky Plantation 
(Belem), and £31,445 in SGG.
Mr B paid a reservation  fee of £1,000 for a Harlequin property. This left approximately 
£8,000 in cash in the SIPP.  Mr B then took out a loan of £80,000 on the property within  his 
SIPP. Mr B has said that this was arranged by Mr M; a bank loan account statement  in 
Mr Bs name, dated 13 December 2012,  is addressed to Mr M at Company A. Subsequently  
a total of £88,000 was invested by Mr B in a Harlequin property. 
Ref: DRN65530162All of the investments  Mr B made  have, to one extent or another, failed. The Serious Fraud  
Office (SFO) has investigated  SGG, with those  responsible for the scheme ultimately given 
custodial sentences. The SFO has also opened investigations into those  behind  Belem,  and 
those behind Harlequin.
Mr B complained to Broadlands Partnership. He is being represented.  The complaint was 
made on the basis that Broadlands Partnership was advising Mr B about  the transfer to the 
new SIPP. They should  therefore have advised  him about the investments  to be made. The 
complaint letter referred  to an alert issued in January 2013 by the regulator  at that time, the 
Financial Services Authority. The complaint was that Mr B had suffered losses  as a result of 
the costs of establishing the SIPP and investing  in Harlequin.
Broadlands Partnership investigated the complaint and issued  a final response.  They  said 
that Mr B had been unhappy with the service provided by his existing SIPP  provider. The 
suitability report explained why the new SIPP would provide  a better  service.  The only 
reference to overseas property was a note in the suitability report  which  said: may wish in 
future to purchase overseas property . The excess funds were to be placed in the cash  
account. The adviser said he would then be pleased to recommend a portfolio 
commensurate with Mr Bs attitude  to risk.
Broadlands also explained that Mr B had a telephone review in 2012. They said he was 
happy with everything  and exploring commercial borrowing  in his SIPP. Mr B didnt respond  
to an offer of a further review  in 2015.
In summary,  Broadlands Partnerships position is that they gave suitable advice to transfer  
Mr Bs SIPP  as he was unhappy  with the existing SIPP provider. They  did not give any 
advice to invest in Harlequin or any other  investments.
Mr B has provided additional  evidence. He says that:
Mr M and Mr P were working together and have other business ventures. 
It is inconceivable that Mr P didnt know that Mr M was selling Harlequin  properties 
and that Mr B intended to use his pension fund to buy a property. 
Mr M was working with Broadlands  Partnership. He has a close  connection with Mr P 
as they owned flats in another country  near each other and ran a business together.
The sole purpose  of the transfer was to invest in Harlequin and the other  two 
investments. 
Mr M was solely responsible for arranging the loan on Mr Bs property.  
The first time he had seen the suitability report was in response to the complaint. He 
felt that it had been put together retrospectively  in response to the complaint. He has 
never said that he has an attitude  as a moderately adventurous investor.  This is their 
terminology and not his. 
Neither Mr M nor Mr P ever told him of the risks of investing in unregulated 
investments.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He set out the background I have 
summarised above. His conclusion was that the complaint should  be upheld.  In summary, he 
gave his reasons  as:
It was highly unlikely  that Broadlands  was not aware of the intended  investments.
Ref: DRN65530163There was a close working relationship between Mr M and Broadlands. Mr M was 
acting as an agent for Harlequin. And Broadlands should have known that was the 
case from this and another complaint.
Mr B told him that he asked Mr P if he would be investing in Harlequin. The reply was 
that it wasnt Mr Ps sort of thing. The adjudicator thought this was a reliable 
statement from Mr B.
The objectives part of the suitability  report states that it may be, in the future, that 
he wishes to purchase overseas property or specialised  shares. That described  what 
took place and indicated that Mr P knew where  Mr B intended to invest his pension 
money.
Broadlands was giving advice to Mr B. So, in accordance with the rules at that time 
the advice had to be suitable.  This had to include the investments to be made. 
He didnt feel that the description of Mr Bs attitude to investment risk as moderately 
adventurous was fair. Given Mr Bs investment history he thought  Mr B was most 
likely to be a balanced risk investor.
The investments  Mr B made in the SIPP  were  unregulated and high risk. These were 
unsuitable for Mr B. 
If Broadlands had acted in his best interest  they would have advised  him against 
making the investments. And if they had given  him that advice he wouldnt have 
made the investments.
Although Broadlands  said that it was unaware of the investments, the review in 2012 
mentioned commercial borrowing. But just days before,  Mr B had paid the £1,000  
deposit for the Harlequin investment.
Broadlands didnt  agree with the adjudicator. They told us:
They were concerned about the way the investigation had been  made  and whether 
they had seen all of the evidence.
They were not aware of the investments Mr B intended to make. But the SIPP 
administrator had sent information to Mr B to make clear all the risks of the 
investments to be made.  They  maintain  they acted fairly towards Mr B.
They did not see how the relationship between Mr P and Mr M could influence the 
conclusion about whether Broadlands  had acted fairly towards  Mr B.
The conclusion that Mr B would not have made the investments  had Broadlands 
acted in his best interests does not take account  of the causation argument. That is 
whether any shortcomings by Broadlands caused  the loss Mr B is complaining about.
The adjudicator  had not placed any weight on the reasons for the move to a different 
SIPP provider because Standard Life had not been providing the service Mr B 
required.
The reference to overseas property  or specialised shares  in the suitability  report was 
conceptual or generic at the time of the advice.
The adjudicator  had not provided any evidence that Mr B intended to make the 
unregulated investments at the time of the suitability report.
Mr P was prepared to provide a statement about  the events. He was not aware of the 
investments at the time of the advice, nor had any knowledge of the investments 
when they were subsequently made  within the SIPP.
Mr P offered  to provide a portfolio  suitable for Mr B in the suitability report, but he did 
not ask Mr P for that service.
The presentations by Mr M for the investments  were undertaken solely  between  
Company A and Mr B.
Ref: DRN65530164The regulatory guidance referred  to by the adjudicator  deals with attempts by 
advisers to separate advice from the underlying  asset,  when the adviser is aware of 
the investment.  In this case,  there was a gap of about 18 months  between  the 
suitability letter and the investments.
The adjudicator  made  a finding  that Broadlands should be liable for consequential 
losses as a result of Mr B taking  out a loan on his commercial property to make the 
investment. That is inconsistent with other findings this service has made  on other  
products.
The complaint was referred  to me. I asked for additional evidence  from Broadlands  and Mr B 
to establish what, if anything, Broadlands knew about the investments to be made. Mr P 
provided a statement about his role in the investments. Broadlands also provided a copy  of 
the file note of the review Mr P made  of the SIPP in June 2012.
Mr B provided evidence to show a close working relationship between Mr P and Mr M.
I issued my provisional decision. I explained that I thought the complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
Was a new SIPP suitable?
Broadlands sent a recommendation report to Mr B on 29 April 2011. This set out Mr Bs 
objectives. He had been unhappy with the service from his existing provider. He wanted a 
more personal service with reasonable charges and a wide variety  of investment options. 
There was a possibility  he would want to buy overseas property or specialist shares in the 
future.
Mr B says that he didnt  receive this report. The letter accompanying the report was correctly 
addressed and I see no reason why it should not have been delivered. However, Broadlands 
did ask Mr B to sign and return a copy of the report.  I havent seen a copy  of the signed 
report. Mr B says that the sole reason for the transfer was to make  an investment in 
Harlequin.
I have seen details  of the charges for the Alltrust SIPP. I havent seen details of charges for 
any other providers. I think its likely  that Alltrust was recommended  because of some issues 
with Standard Life, but also with a view to making non-standard investments. 
Is Broadlands responsible for the investments in Sustainable Agroenergy  and Belem Sky 
Plantations?
The recommendation report explained that the majority  of the fund was invested in 
commercial property. This was to be placed in a cash account until the transfer  was 
completed and then a portfolio commensurate  with Mr Bs attitude to risk would be 
recommended.
In my view, leaving the recommendation  about  investments until later was not appropriate.  
Broadlands was giving  advice to Mr B. That advice had to be suitable.  And investment 
advice should  have been considered as part of the advice to recommend the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN65530165Given that part of the recommendation report explained that Mr B might want  to invest in 
overseas property or specialised  shares,  I think its likely that the adviser knew  investments 
were to be made at the time. In any event, even if the funds  had been  held in a cash  
account, the adviser at Broadlands should have recommended  suitable investments very 
shortly after the transfer.
Broadlands did not give Mr B suitable  advice. The investments in SGG and Belem  were 
made as a result of things said by Mr M. Im satisfied that these investments would not have 
been made if Broadlands had given Mr B suitable  advice.  
Is Broadlands responsible for the loan and investment in Harlequin?
The only reference  made in the recommendation report  to overseas property is that Mr B 
might want  to invest in overseas property at some point  in future. After the investments in 
SGG and Belem were made, there  were  no funds available for Mr B to use to invest  in 
Harlequin. I now have  to decide  whether Broadlands knew that a loan was to be obtained on 
the commercial property so that Mr B could invest in Harlequin.
Mr P explained that he did not know about any of the investments.  I think this is unlikely. I 
said earlier  that I think the investments in SGG and Belem would not have been made if 
Mr P had given suitable advice  to Mr B. But, it is still possible that the investment in 
Harlequin could  have gone  ahead.
Broadlands has provided a copy of the note showing that a review took place. This appears 
to have been in June  2012. At that point, notes  were made about the property with Harlequin 
and that Mr B was also exploring commercial property. I think this review was made in line 
with Broadlands  agreement with Mr B to provide ongoing advice.
In my view, the advice  given in June 2012  should have strongly  advised  against Mr B 
borrowing to invest in Harlequin. I see no reason to think  that Mr B would have ignored 
suitable advice.  If suitable advice had been  given he would not have  borrowed against  his 
commercial property or invested  in Harlequin.  If that advice had been given at the time, I 
think it would  have  prevented Mr B from investing in Harlequin.
Broadlands representative replied and asked  for a personal hearing. I explained that I did 
not think a hearing  was required, but if they wished to make  oral representations that they 
could speak with our adjudicator and a recording of the call would be available for me to 
listen to. A signed affidavit  has also been  provided  by Mr M.
I have listened  to a recording of the call. In summary, the points made  were:
There had been a misapplication  of the Principles and Rules  set out in the regulators 
handbook. In particular, COBS 2.1.1  and COBS 9.2.1.
They disputed the chronology of events set out in the provisional decision and by the 
adjudicator. Mr B, Mr M and Mr P were not all friends. This misunderstanding 
appears to have led to the belief that Mr P had a greater understanding of the 
investments to be made  than he actually had.
The reference to overseas property  and specialist shares was to a property in  
country abroad and shares in Mr Bs employers business.
Mr B bought four properties.  One of these  was owned by Mr M.
The investments  actually made were not considered or mentioned as part of the 
advice.
Ref: DRN65530166Obligations on an adviser are set out in COBS. There is no provision for costs.  There 
must be an understanding of the service  being  provided and the cost of that service.
Mr B wasnt aware that he had complained  to Broadlands.
Early in 2012 Mr M discussed  Harlequin with Mr B. Mr M arranged the mortgage and 
Broadlands had no knowledge of this. Mr M was receiving the statements.
Mr M had seen  Harlequin being  built. All discussions  about  the investments  that were  
made in 2011  and the Harlequin property bought in 2012 were  between Mr M and 
Mr B. Broadlands did not know about  the investments  to be made.
Company A referred clients to Broadlands.  It was a one way direction as Broadlands 
did not refer clients  to Company A.
There was no request for advice about the investments to be made. This was not in 
the contemplation of the parties.  The products were  only entered  into at a distance 
from the advice  on the SIPP.
It is unfair and incorrect to present redress as it is, particularly the interest rate to be 
used. Broadlands  didnt know about  the investments or the loan.
The complaint  should correctly be made to Company A or Alltrust.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
decision that I reached in my provisional  decision.  I shall explain why.
Jurisdiction
The complaint originally made to Broadlands  by Mr Bs representative  was that unsuitable 
advice had been given to Mr B without considering the investments to be made, specifically 
Harlequin. However, in his letter  to the representative dated 19 October 2016, Mr B 
explained that the SIPP was set up to invest in Harlequin and the two other  investments. The 
representative wrote to our adjudicator explaining  that the complaint should have included 
the SGG  and Belem investments. 
Our investigation has been about all three  investments made in the SIPP.  Broadlands were 
made aware  of that and have been  given the opportunity to respond to the complaint.  I am 
satisfied that the complaint is about  the advice to set up the SIPP and the suitability of all 
three investments. 
Hearing
Broadlands and their representatives have  been able to make  their points in writing and in a 
telephone call with the adjudicator. I accept the witness statement from Mr M as being a true 
version of events. I remain of the view that I can fairly decide the complaint without a formal  
hearing. 
Ref: DRN65530167The relevant  rules
Broadlands representatives say that the relevant rules are PRIN 2.1.1R; COBS  9.2.1R  and 
COBS 10.2.1. PRIN 2.1.1  R sets out the principles firms must apply when conducting 
business. They say the relevant two principles  are:
2.A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care and diligence.
6.A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
I agree  that these  principles are relevant. The relevant rule in the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook is COBS  2.1.1R. This is the clients best interests rule: A firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests  of its client.
The rule that is most important in this case is COBS 9.2 about assessing  suitability.  Included  
in COBS 9.2.1R is:
(1)A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade,  is suitable  for its client;
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm 
must obtain  the necessary  information regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific  type 
of designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation,  or take the decision, which is suitable 
for the client
COBS 9.2.2R includes the following:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about  him and have a reasonable basis for believing, 
giving due consideration to the nature and extent  of the service provided, that the 
specific transaction to be recommended,  or entered into in the course  of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially  to bear any related  investment risks 
consistent with his investment objectives;  and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his 
portfolio.
COBS 10.1.1 is relevant  where certain types of investment are arranged. As Broadlands was 
giving advice to Mr B this is not relevant to this complaint.
Broadlands did give advice to Mr B to set up the SIPP  with Alltrust. That advice was set out 
in their recommendation report. In my view, the key point is whether that advice was suitable 
for Mr B. Broadlands then reviewed the SIPP  in June 2012. I have considered whether 
Broadlands gave  advice and whether that advice  was suitable.
Ref: DRN65530168Role of Mr M and Alltrust
The witness  statement from Mr M confirms that he sold the investments  in Harlequin, SGG 
and Belem to Mr B. This was not in dispute.  Mr M also confirmed that Mr B had been his 
client when he was a regulated adviser. Although Mr B and Mr P were known to each other,  
Mr M introduced them.
I accept what Mr M has to say in his witness statement.  I think it is clear that he sold the 
investments to Mr B. He and Company A could  have some liability to Mr B for the losses  
suffered. And Alltrust  was required to comply  with rules and regulations  about  accepting 
investments in the SIPP. Its possible  that other parties could have some liability.
I am dealing  with a complaint against  Broadlands.  If Broadlands wishes to take an 
assignment of any rights  of action  Mr B may have against third parties, it may do so. I will 
deal with this more fully in the section about  fair compensation.
Advice
Broadlands set out their advice in a recommendation report  dated  29 April 2011.  This was to 
transfer to a SIPP with Alltrust.  Mr Bs commercial property was to be transferred to the new 
SIPP and Broadlands  would provide advice for the remaining cash  at a later date. As 
Broadlands was providing advice about  a regulated investment that advice had to be 
suitable. In my view,  that included the cash held within the SIPP. Broadlands should have 
given advice about where those funds were to be invested.
Mr B was assessed as having a moderately  adventurous attitude to investment risk. 
However, Broadlands also had to consider whether Mr B was able to bear any financial 
risks. Based on the information available to Broadlands, Mr B did not have the capacity for 
the loss he could suffer.
The advice was given  on the basis that Mr B was unhappy with the service  from his existing 
pension provider. It was mentioned that Mr B may wish to purchase  overseas property or 
specialised shares  in future. The advice was restricted  to the objectives set out. However, 
the regulators alert in January 2013 explained  that the rules required the advice to be 
suitable. I agree with that interpretation of the rules.  Broadlands had to consider the assets  
within the SIPP and how they were to be invested.
The recommendation report said that the excess funds should  be placed in a cash account 
and then the adviser would be pleased to establish  a portfolio commensurate with Mr Bs 
attitude to risk. In my view, this was not suitable  as some thought should have been given to 
the investments  when  the transfer was made.  The adviser should have provided a suitable  
recommendation for the excess funds.
Broadlands representatives says that the cost of advice should be taken into account when 
assessing what they had agreed  to do. I do not agree. Broadlands was required to comply 
with the relevant rules. That meant  suitable advice had to be given. But it appears from the 
recommendation report that a portfolio would be recommended  after the transfer was made. 
In my view, that should have been  considered  as part of the advice.
Ref: DRN65530169The investments in SGG and Belem were not made  until December 2011. That was without 
any involvement from Broadlands. However, I think it is likely that the adviser knew that 
overseas property and more speculative investments were to be made. And I think its likely 
that he knew about the type of schemes  being sold by Mr M and company A. If suitable  
advice had been given, I think Mr B would have invested in suitable investments. His funds 
would not have remained in cash and it is unlikely that Mr B would have invested in more  
speculative unregulated investments. 
The investment in Harlequin  was not made until December 2012.  Mr M arranged  a mortgage 
on the commercial property in the SIPP and the proceeds were used to buy the Harlequin 
property. Broadlands  say that they did not know about this investment. However, the adviser 
did conduct a review with Mr B over the telephone  in June 2012. This specifically referred  to 
the Harlequin investment. A pension review was offered  and a note explains that he is 
happy with everything  said he was borrowing through his SIPP . There are comments about 
Harlequin in the handwritten notes.
Advice was being  given  at that time and the adviser knew about  Harlequin, but the 
investment had not been made. A reservation fee of £1,000 had been paid, but the 
borrowing and investment in Harlequin  could have been avoided. In my view,  suitable advice 
should have been given  at that review in June 2012.  Mr B should have been  advised  that 
investing in Harlequin was high risk and speculative, especially as Mr B had to borrow to 
invest. If suitable advice had been given, Mr B would  not have borrowed funds in his SIPP  
and would not have invested  in Harlequin.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  that Mr B should have been  advised 
to invest the cash  in the SIPP in line with his attitude  to risk. He should also have been 
advised not to borrow  funds in his SIPP to invest in Harlequin.
I think Mr B would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Broadlands do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  Broadlands  must:
For the loan and investment in Harlequin
Establish the loan repayments  made to date by Mr B. Those payments should  be 
made to him including any interest paid.
Arrange to repay the balance of the loan in full.
Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Bs Harlequin  Property investment. The valuation 
of the Harlequin  investment may prove  difficult, as there  is no market for it. To 
calculate the compensation, Broadlands should agree an amount with the SIPP  
provider as a commercial value, and then pay the sum agreed plus any costs  and 
take ownership of the investment. If Broadlands is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes  of calculating compensation.
Ref: DRN655301610For the cash in the SIPP
Compare the performance of each of Mr Bs investments  with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. The losses should be combined and the 
total is the amount of compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Broadlands should  pay a sum into Mr Bs pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Broadlands is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement.  Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. The reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as 
Mr B would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction  should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of his pension 
fund.
Broadlands should add interest  as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
paid. If Broadlands  deducts income  tax from the interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  has 
been taken off. Broadlands  should  give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Belem Sky 
Plantationstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement 
Sustainable 
Agroenergystill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement 
for each investment:
Ref: DRN655301611actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Broadlands should take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Broadlands is unable  to buy the investment the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Broadlands  may require Mr B to provide an undertaking to pay 
Broadlands any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Broadlands will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr B paid into the investment should  be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there are a large  number  of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Broadlands  totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Bs circumstances  and risk attitude.  
Ref: DRN655301612my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Broadlands Partnership must  now calculate the loss Mr B has 
suffered and pay fair compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6553016