K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complained that Ageas Insurance Limiteds offer to settle his claim for his sofa,  on his 
extended warranty, is unfair. 
Mr Js mother  has helped him bring his complaint to us. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
all actions and comments as being those of Mr J.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agent.  
background
Mr J claimed for damage to his sofa that hed bought  in the sale a few years earlier for 
£1,240. Ageas arranged for a technician to clean it, but Mr J was unhappy with the result.  As 
cleaning the sofa hadnt resolved things, Ageas offered Mr J £548 in cash  or £1,240 in store 
vouchers, so he could  buy a new sofa. Mr J said hed lost confidence in the store, so Ageas 
also offered him the option of having  store vouchers for an alternative shop. 
Mr J said  when he bought the policy - hed been told it provided  a like for like sofa. And he 
couldnt get the same sofa with the amount Ageas offered, as hed bought the sofa in the 
sale. Ageas  said the terms of the policy allowed it to provide a credit  note for the original 
store or at a similar retailer of its choice. It said the policy covered Mr J up to either £15,000 
or the price hed paid for the sofa,  whichever was lower. 
Mr J remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. Our adjudicator looked into his 
complaint but thought Ageas offer was fair and in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. 
Mr J didnt agree as he didnt think he could replace his sofa with one that was like for like. 
He asked for Ageas to pay him £500 cash and £741  in store  vouchers.  He was also unhappy 
about the way his sofa had been  cleaned. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr J has made  a few complaints to Ageas. However, in this decision  Im only 
considering whether Ageas has acted  fairly  and reasonably in the offer its made  to settle  his 
claim. If Mr J remains unhappy about  the cleaning of his sofa, or the way the policy was sold, 
hed need to complain about  that separately. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy say Ageas can settle claims by cleaning,  repairing or 
replacing the damaged sofa.  They go on to say that where the sofa cant  be cleaned, 
repaired or replaced Ageas will offer a credit note for the store where it was bought from. Or 
if that retailer has moved or stopped  trading, for a similar store  of Ageas choice. The terms 
also say that Ageas  can choose to offer a cash  settlement in lieu of a credit note, but this will 
be at a lower value than the credit note and will take account of any discount it would have 
received in issuing the credit note. The terms say that the value of the credit note will be the 
amount the policyholder paid for the sofa. 
Ref: DRN64218272I can see that Ageas has acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy  by offering 
Mr J a credit  note for the store he bought  the sofa from.  It also offered him the option of a 
credit note for a different  store, because hed lost confidence in the one hed brought  from, or 
a cash alternative.  I think its been fair to give him all of these options to choose  from.
Ive taken into consideration Mr Js point that he bought his sofa in the sale, so cant  buy the 
same one again for the same  price. But Im satisfied the options Ageas has given Mr J are 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. The policy terms cover 
Mr J up to the amount  he bought the sofa for. And the options Ageas has given allow him to 
buy another sofa for that amount. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for but Im not going to ask Ageas to 
increase its offer.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6421827