K822xcomplaint
Miss E complains  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  her payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with loans taken  out in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000. 
background
Our adjudicator looked at all the evidence  provided and thought  that there wasnt enough 
evidence to say Miss E had been  sold PPI with the loans taken out in 1997, 1998  and 1999 
so we couldnt consider Miss Es complaint about  PPI sold on these loans.
As Santander had already offered to pay back the commission  it received for the loan Miss E 
took out in 2000 our adjudicator thought this offer was fair and didnt think Santander should 
have to do anything  more to resolve  Miss Es complaint.
Miss E disagreed with the adjudicators  view,  so this has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
loans taken out in 1997, 1998, and 1999
Santander has told us that it has been  unable to trace any PPI being added  to these loans, 
and that there is only limited information  available due to the time thats passed.
Miss E has told us that she feels PPI would have been sold alongside these loans as it was 
sold alongside the loan she took out in 2000,  and this loan was taken out to refinance the 
previous loans. Miss E has provided  evidence of the previous loans she took out with 
Santander being paid into her account. Unfortunately these entries  dont show  evidence of 
PPI being added to the loans.
A long time has passed since Miss E took out these loans and its not surprising or unusual 
that Santander has limited  information  available, as businesses arent required to keep this 
information indefinitely.
Whilst I understand that Miss E feels PPI was taken out with the most recent loan so it must 
have been taken out with the preview  ones, there isnt any evidence to suggest this was the 
case. So I dont  think we can take Miss Es complaint  about  mis-sold PPI on these loans  any 
further.
loan taken out in 2000
Santander has made an offer to pay back the total amount Miss E paid for the PPI sold 
alongside this loan taken out in 2000  as it has excepted that it mis sold the policy. And I think 
this is fair.
what the business should  do to put things right 
Ref: DRN61396332Miss E borrowed extra to pay for the PPI she took out alongside the loan in 2000, so her 
loan was bigger  than it shouldve been and she paid more  than she shouldve each month. 
So Miss E needs to get back the extra she paid. 
So, Santander should:
Work  out and pay Miss E the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss E paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year
If Miss E made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Miss E a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, we cannot  consider Miss Es complaint about PPI sold 
against loans  she took out in 1997, 1998 and 1999.
Santander UK Plc has accepted it mis-sold Miss E PPI alongside the loan she took out in 
2000, and should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139633