K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from Hastings Insurance Services  Limited 
(Hastings) when he claimed  on his motor insurance policy and about the way his claim was 
handled.
Background
Mr E has a car insurance policy with Hastings. In March  2019, Mr E accidently damaged his 
car, so in April 2017 he and made  a claim on his policy. 
He called Hastings  to ask about taking his car to a repair centre of his choice, however when 
he made the call he was asked questions he felt werent appropriate  such as what his 
bank details were. He was also told hed lose his no claims bonus which he felt wasnt  right 
as he had protected no claims. Mr E wasnt happy  with the information and service hed 
been given so he asked for a call back.  A complaint handler called Mr E back and 
apologised for the information hed been  given  by the first call handler. He also told Mr E that 
he could use his own repair centre, but hed have to pay double  his agreed policy excess. 
He was then told that if he still wanted  to use his own repairer, he wouldnt have the benefit  
of a courtesy  car. 
Mr E didnt think this was fair so he complained to Hastings. He felt these details shouldve  
been made clear  when  hed taken out the policy with them, and by not doing so they hadnt  
allowed him the opportunity to make an informed  choice.  He also felt the overall  service  hed 
received from them  had been poor. 
Hastings upheld the complaint in part. They said the information the call handler had asked 
for was needed as part of their process  but they agreed Mr E hadnt been  asked for it 
correctly. They also apologised for the incorrect information Mr E had been given about 
losing his no claims bonus and confirmed the call handler shouldve checked  to see if Mr E 
had protected  no claims first. However,  they didnt uphold the rest of the complaint as they 
said the information about the courtesy car and increased excess  was provided  to Mr E in 
the policy documents hed received. 
Mr E didnt agree so he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the apology for the 
incorrect no-claims bonus discount  information was enough to resolve this part of the 
complaint. She also felt the adviser on the first call had clearly  explained  why she was 
asking for Mr Es bank  details. She acknowledged  Hastings  couldve given Mr E the 
information about the increased excess and courtesy car on the initial call. But she was 
satisfied this had been explained in the policy documents Mr E had received and by the 
complaint handler  when  hed called later that day.  
Mr E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Ref: DRN69904182Mr E said Hastings asked him irrelevant  questions and shouldve  told him sooner his excess 
would double if he used  his own repairer.  He also felt theyd  delayed  the repair  of his car and 
generally provided him with poor service. Ive seen that Mr E called Hastings to notify them  
of the claim on 5 April 2019,  and he was asked various questions by the call handler   which 
included asking him to confirm  his bank details. Ive listened to the call, and I do agree there 
was some confusion about  how Mr E paid for his insurance. However, I think  the call handler  
gave Mr E a reasonable explanation about  why shed asked for this information. So I dont 
think this was an unnecessary request.
I also agree  that Mr E wasnt told about  the doubling of his excess or not being provided  a 
courtesy car in he didnt  use an approved  repairer by the call handler  initially.  But Ive seen 
Mr E received a call back from a complaint handler  within a couple  of hours where both the 
increased excess and courtesy car availability were discussed. As Mr E was given  the 
information he needed on the same  day he logged the claim - and he still chose  to use an 
alternative repairer after hed been  given this - I cant say Hastings  treated  him unreasonably 
or delayed  the repair of his car. 
Mr E has said he wasnt aware of the conditions and exceptions relating to the increased 
excess and courtesy car until he spoke  to the complaint  handler.  But Ive looked at the 
documentation Mr E received  when taking out the policy, and I can see that the welcome 
letter explains the policy documents  are the Certificate of insurance  (proof  youre insured, 
Schedule of insurance (details about you, your car and your cover) and Car policy document 
(our terms and conditions  and your insurers policy wording). So Ive looked at each 
document and seen  that both the Cover summary and Schedule  of insurance have 
endorsements sections  which  say the excess would  be doubled if the policyholder  is not 
using approved repairer.
Ive also seen that the Car policy document has a section called About the courtesy car 
service which explains  The courtesy car is only available if you use your Insurers  
Nominated Repairer and the other  exceptions  associated with this. Slightly below  this the 
section Can I choose my own repairer/  garage?  which explains the increased excess  if a 
policy holder isnt using the nominated repair  service. These are both prominently featured 
firstly on page four of the policy document,  and in bold at various  other points throughout it. 
So I cant reasonably  say Hastings didnt try to highlight these limitations to Mr E.
Mr E said he wasnt able to make an informed decision about  whether to get the policy  or nor 
because Hastings didnt  list the garages they use before  he accepted the policy. But I dont 
agree. Its standard industry practice for insurers to have a list of approved  repairs  they use, 
and I dont think its reasonable  to expect Hastings to list them  before a policy  is taken out. 
As theyve  explained,  they have different repairers  for different  uses,  and the policy  doesnt  
prohibit the use of another garage  it just says there  will be increased costs  to do so. 
I recognise this wont be the outcome Mr E is hoping for, and that he feels  hes not been 
given the level of service  he expected. But its not for me to punish or fine a business  for 
making a mistake,  and taking into account all the circumstances I think Hastings have done  
enough to put things  right. So I wont be asking them  to do anything  further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN69904183Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6990418