K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains Caxton FX Ltd will not refund money which an ATM failed to dispense.
background
Whilst Mr D was abroad, he attempted to withdraw  $100 from an ATM.  The ATM  said the 
withdrawal would attract a fee of $3.99  so Mr D says he cancelled  the transaction.   He 
needed the money to pay for a taxi to the airport  but a friend covered that instead.
Once back in the UK, Mr D realised that the $103.99  had still debited  his account.  So, he 
complained to Caxton.
Caxton spoke to the ATM  owners.  It was presented  with an ATM log  essentially a print out 
of transactions  made on the day Mr D says he tried to make  his.  That print out showed that 
the $100 had been dispensed.  Therefore, it did not uphold  his complaint.
Mr D then brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  thought Caxton had acted 
unfairly.  He said it should refund the $103.99  and pay Mr D £50 for the inconvenience  which  
had been caused.
Mr D accepted this offer but Caxton did not  although it did not say why. It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I intend to uphold this complaint.
I am pleased  to see that Caxton had approached the ATM owner.   That is where it is going 
to receive confirmation  of whether or not this money was dispensed.  But  the ATM log is only 
one bit of information.  In addition to the print out, this service  would  expect to see evidence  
that the ATM balanced on that day, that there had not been any other issues with other 
transactions and confirmation of whether the purge bin contained anything.  
Caxton has not provided any other evidence and I am afraid that what I have seen is not 
sufficient for me to conclude that Mr Ds money was dispensed as Caxton claims.
I know Caxton says that the ATM log was sent in response to a chargeback which  it had 
carried out in relation  to Mr Ds complaint.   It says it has complied with the rules set by the 
card issuer  and can do no more.  Im afraid that the chargeback process is just one aspect of 
looking into this complaint.
In the circumstances, I think Caxton has acted unfairly  and unreasonably in holding Mr D 
liable for this money.
Ref: DRN63593402my final decision
My final decision is that Caxton FX Ltd should pay Mr D $103.99 in addition  to £50 for the 
poor service which he has received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6359340