K820x#14Complaint
Mr G has complained that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited allowed a third party to 
open a credit account in his name.
Background
Mr G was the victim of identity theft.  
Mr G said he noticed a drop in his credit score and he became concerned  when his 
application for a credit  card was turned down. He wanted to know  why so he checked his 
credit file. He saw that a default had been registered against his name for a home shopping 
account with Shop Direct.
He contacted Shop Direct and told it he hadnt  opened the account. It carried out an 
investigation and found that the account  had been opened fraudulently.  It closed the account 
immediately and removed  all information relating to it from Mr Gs credit  file. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with this outcome. He said Shop Direct should have done more  to 
protect him from fraud. He said he couldnt take the family summer holiday hed planned for 
because of his lower credit score. He asked for compensation for the lost holiday.
Shop Direct said the application  contained his personal details including his date of birth,  
address, income,  residential status and number of dependants. It considered its checks were  
sufficient. However, it offered to pay Mr G £100  for his trouble and upset.
Mr G wasnt happy with this decision so he brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator decided  not to uphold  his complaint. She said the application itself 
contained a lot of information, which was accurate and there was no reason for Shop Direct 
to suspect fraud. She also thought  Shop Direct had acted promptly  in investigating  his 
complaint and closing the account. And there  was no evidence  that the default had affected 
the outcome of his credit  card application.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view. He has asked for £1,500 to compensate  him for 
the lost holiday. This complaint has now come to me for an ombudsman  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I agree with
the investigators view.  I wont be upholding this complaint.
My primary role is to decide if Shop  Direct acted fairly and reasonably, when  Mr G reported 
the fraud.  I think it did.
It carried out an investigation and closed the account, after deciding Mr G might have been
the victim of a fraud. It isnt pursuing  him for the debt on the account. It has removed  all 
reference to the account from his credit file. His original  complaint has been resolved.
I understand Mr Gs need to find out why Shop Direct didnt carry out further  checks, 
especially as he hadnt lived at the address given in the application since 2011. As the 
investigator explained, businesses have their own internal checks. which they do not always  
Ref: DRN64516592disclose to this service. However,  I note Mr G rents out the property at the address and there 
was sufficient information to match the data in the application against external records.
Theres no evidence that the default affected  Mr Gs credit card application,  less so the loss 
of his holiday. Again, as the investigator  explained, the credit card application  could have 
been declined  for any number of reasons, including the level of existing borrowing. Besides, 
the debt on the Shop  Direct account  was relatively  small  at £249. I dont think, on its own, it 
would have been the reason for Mr G not getting  a credit card.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Mr G has suffered any financial loss as a result  of the 
default. I can see no direct evidence that it led to the lost holiday or any other financial 
impact. I dont consider its fair and reasonable to ask Shop Direct  to pay him compensation.
Im sorry  to send such disappointing news. I do understand the worry and distress  caused by 
identity theft. Fortunately, Shop Direct is not pursuing Mr G for the debt.  
I hope the reasons for my decision are clear. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
It remains open to Mr G to accept the offer of £100 from Shop Direct Finance Company.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6451659