K821x#15complaint
Mr F says PDL Finance  Limited. trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven short term loans PDL provided to Mr F between  
November 2014  and December 2015. Loans  4, 6 and 7 were  repayable  by two, three and six 
instalments respectively. Mr Fs lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
(for Loans 4, 6 and 7 
only)
1. 7/11/14 27/11/14 £300 n/a
2. 4/12/14 23/12/14 £520 n/a
3. 6/2/15 27/2/15 £400 n/a
4. 4/3/15 30/4/15 £600 £429.60
5. 30/4/15 29/5/15 £400 n/a
6. 7/9/15 30/1/16 £400 £200.53
7. 4/12/15 27/5/16 £400 £165.33
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Fs complaint in part and thought Loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have 
been given. PDL disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN63775442refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make 
repayments, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
With regard to Loans 1 to 4, the loan repayments  appeared to be affordable based on what  
Mr F said about his disposable  income. From what PDL has shown us, its checks  didnt 
identify anything adverse on Mr Fs credit  file such as an individual  voluntary arrangement or 
bankruptcy. So given the amount Mr F needed to repay, and what was apparent  about  his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask him for 
the amount of information that might have shown the lending was unsustainable. And there 
wasnt anything in the information  Mr F provided or the information PDL shouldve  been 
aware of, which  meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start verifying what he was saying.
Although by Loan 5 I think PDL should  have been taking more steps to verify what Mr F was 
saying about his finances, I dont  think doing  so would have uncovered  anything  that was 
likely to lead the lender  to the conclusion that this loan was unsustainable. So I dont think  it 
was wrong to give him this loan either.
I appreciate that Mr F says his credit file would have shown a far worse  position than was 
identified by PDLs  checks. But the information  a consumer might see, when they request a 
copy of their credit file, might  be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only 
see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised, or the 
data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences  between  the information  
provided by PDLs credit check to it and the information seen by Mr F in his credit  report.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of PDLs  lending with Mr F to see if there was a point at 
which PDL should  reasonably  have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so PDL should  have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Fs case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
Loan 6. I say this because:
Ref: DRN63775443Ive seen what PDL has said about  there being  a break  of more than three months  
between Loan  5 being repaid  and Loan  6 being taken. But the break was for 
substantially less time than the period Mr F owed Mr L money for Loans 1 to 4 and I 
dont think it was a sufficient gap for PDL to have  reasonably thought that Mr Fs 
finances might have moved on from whatever  situation had required his previous 
loans. Taking all of this into account, I dont think that the period of time between 
Loan 5 being repaid and Loan 6 being taken  is enough for me to be able to fairly say 
that there was a break in lending.  
Loan 7 was provided to Mr F within four days of settling Loan 6. So PDL ought  to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having to borrow further to cover  
the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed PDL. Loan 7 was taken 
out just less than a year after Mr Fs first loan.  And it was for a third more than the 
amount of the initial loan. Mr F had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect; service 
a debt to PDL over an extended  period.
I think that Mr F lost out because PDL continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Fs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I agree with the adjudicator that the complaint should be upheld about Loans  6 and 7 and 
say that PDL should put things right.
putting things right 
I dont think PDL should have agreed to lend Loans  6 and 7 to Mr F. So PDL should:-
 1. Refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on Loans 6 and 7;
 2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest  and charges from the date
     they  were paid to the date of settlement*;
 3. Remove all entries about Loans  6 and 7 from Mr Fs credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give
 Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender, to:-
 1. Refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on Loans 6 and 7;
 2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest  and charges from the date
     they  were paid to the date of settlement*;
 3. Remove all entries about Loans  6 and 7 from Mr Fs credit  file.
Ref: DRN63775444* HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give
 Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6377544