K820x#14complaint
Mrs S, through her solicitors L, complains  that Great Lakes Insurance  SE acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in refusing to pay £201  plus VAT an hour to L, and by restricting her freedom 
of choice of solicitors. She wants her full legal costs  covered.
background
Mrs S had a legal expenses insurance  policy with Great Lakes. Mrs S issued a claim of 
constructive unfair dismissal and wanted  to instruct her own solicitors, L, to deal with the 
matter on her behalf. Great Lakes was only willing to pay £125 plus VAT a hour,  rather than 
£201 plus VAT that L required for the highest  level of fee-earner (the rate permitted under 
the court guidelines for the region).
L complained to Great  Lakes. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy clearly stated 
that for a non-panel solicitor, the hourly rate would be £125 plus VAT, unless Great  Lakes 
felt the situation  warranted a higher rate. Great Lakes said that a higher rate wasnt  
warranted in this case, particularly as the correct  court rate was £146 as a Grade  A fee-
earner wasnt needed. It denied that Mrs Ss freedom of choice was rendered meaningless.
L complained to us. The investigators view was that the terms and conditions  of the policy  
allowed Mrs S to choose her own solicitor,  and he felt the term about the hourly rate to be 
paid was clear and not misleading. He didnt think  this was unfair or unreasonable as 
insurers could restrict the amount  theyd pay, just like a private  consumer, as long as there 
was a freedom  of choice which was meaningful.
But the investigator noted that Great Lakes hadnt shown that Mrs S was offered a panel  
solicitor who could act on her behalf, so it wasnt clear if her freedom of choice had been 
rendered meaningless. He said that Great Lakes should pay the hourly  rate which  it could 
show a legal firm would  take Mrs S case on for, and if that rate was £125 plus VAT,  the 
investigator would reconsider. 
Great Lakes provided  more evidence and said a panel  firm would take on the case for its 
chosen rate, that many non-panel firms accepted its rates and pointed out that the court 
guidelines existed  to stop solicitors overcharging. It also said that the court guideline rates  
were inclusive of VAT.
The investigator noted that only one panel  firm would act and said the hourly rate should be 
the rate that Great Lakes could show other firms would accept. He also noted that there was 
a dispute about whether a more  expensive fee-earner should  work on the case, and said 
that this couldnt be resolved in the absence of evidence about  the correct  hourly  rate. The 
investigator said though that L should be able to explain why a higher level of fee-earner  was 
needed. Great Lakes  felt that the investigator  was moving the goal-posts and its evidence  
was being overlooked. It said that this was a dispute about the hourly rate and L should  
justify why more  should  be paid. L didnt respond  to the investigators  view.
Ref: DRN69277212my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Insurers  are required to provide information  thats clear, fair and not misleading.  Where
theres a significant  limit on the cover, the insurer needs  to make this clear so a policyholder
can understand at the outset what cover theyre getting.
In this case, the complaint  relates to the hourly rate which Great  Lakes will pay when a 
policyholder uses  their own solicitor. The policy says the rate is £125 plus VAT an hour,  and 
it can be increased if Great Lakes  thinks the situation warrants it.
As its the insurer that will be paying the legal costs,  its reasonable for Great  Lakes to have 
a say in the amount being charged  by the policyholders solicitor. And I think  that term 
makes it clear that Great Lakes wont pay more  than £125 an hour (plus VAT), unless theres 
a good reasons to do so. I cant say this is unfair  or unreasonable.
But even where  the rate is clearly set out (which  I think  it is here), that isnt the only issue  I
need to consider. The law does give Mrs S the freedom to choose her own solicitor from the
point that legal proceedings start. However,  case law has also established that insurers are
entitled to limit the amount they pay to a non-panel solicitor,  provided that doing so doesnt
limit the policyholders ability  to choose  their own solicitor  to such an extent that it makes it
meaningless.
The argument here is whether the hourly rate Great Lakes is willing to pay for this case 
means that Mrs S has no real freedom of choice.  I think Mrs S does have a freedom of 
choice for several  reasons. First, many firms (both panel and non-panel) accept the rate of 
£125 plus VAT an hour. Second,  Mrs S claim is relatively straightforward and employment 
tribunals are designed  to be accessible for those  without lawyers. That doesnt mean that its 
unreasonable for her to want to be legally  represented, but I dont think its fair or reasonable 
for a Grade A fee-earner and the head  of the employment team  to do the work. Great Lakes 
has suggested that a Grade C fee-earner  is more  appropriate, and I agree. Critically, I note 
no explanation  has been given to this firm or Great Lakes why such  a senior  fee-earner  is 
appropriate, which is why Great  Lakes hasnt been  able to increase the rate.
Thirdly, I note that a panel firm is available to deal with the case, and it isnt reasonable to 
expect an insurer to undertake research amongst private businesses who dont have sight of 
Mrs S claim to find out if non-panel firms would take the case. Importantly, Mrs S hasnt 
been denied  her freedom to choose;  shes chosen  L and decided to pay the difference 
herself.
Great Lakes is incorrect in saying  that the court guideline rates are inclusive of VAT. This 
rule from the VAT legislation  doesnt apply to the court  guideline rates and VAT is claimed 
separately when  costs are assessed. The court guideline for a Grade  C fee-earner in the 
relevant region is £146 plus VAT, so this is the maximum  hourly  rate which  Id view as 
arguable in the circumstances.  
But given the clear limit of £125 plus VAT in the policy, the case law, the availability of 
alternatives, Mrs S decision  to exercise  her freedom of choice, and the failure by L to justify  
its use of a Grade A fee-earner  (and trigger a review of the rate),  I think its fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to apply the terms and conditions of the policy and only pay 
£125 plus VAT a hour.
Ref: DRN69277213my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  L said that Mrs S claim was complicated and a 
Grade A fee-earner was justified as Mrs S was distressed. It also said Mrs S freedom of 
choice was restricted, despite  it agreeing to act on her behalf.  Great  Lakes didnt respond.
I note that L hasnt  set out in any detail  why the claim is viewed as complex, particularly 
given the nature of the claim and the fact that employment tribunals are designed to be 
accessible for those without legal representation. The distress of Mrs S doesnt mean its 
necessary for the most senior solicitor  to deal with the case,  and theres no evidence  
showing that the complexity of the case requires  it either.
And while L says Mrs S freedom of choice has been  unfairly  restricted, it accepts that it was 
willing to act. The evidence shows  other firms were also willing  to act (the panel solicitors).
Having reviewed the case again,  I remain of the view as set out in my provisional decision 
and confirm it as my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6927721