K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr R says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr R says the PPI was sold to him in a meeting. But Nationwide  says Mr R took out his 
credit card and PPI via an application  pack which he took away with him, completed and 
returned. And its provided a copy of the application form Mr R completed and signed. On 
this I can see a received  stamp which is dated a few days  after Mr R signed the form and 
Nationwides signature is dated a few days after the form was received. So based  on this, 
and without any persuasive evidence to suggest  he spoke to someone  from Nationwide at 
the time,  I think its likely  the application form was taken away  and completed by Mr R in his 
own time and space.   
Mr R says the PPI was added automatically and when he asked about  it he was told he had 
to take it out in order to have the credit card. But, as Ive already found above, I think  its 
likely Mr R completed this application form without any involvement from Nationwide  other 
than providing  the application pack.  So I think Mr R was free to make  the choices he wanted. 
And from the evidence  Ive seen I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr R didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this. I say this because in his application  form there  is a tick in the box to agree to 
the policy, and he signed in this section to confirm his decision to take to take out PPI and a 
Card Holder  Protection Plan. This signature  is separate to his signature to agree to the credit  
card  so I think this reflected what he wanted  at the time.  
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr R got the information  he needed to decide if the policy 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Mr R says the PPI was of no use to him because he had sick pay, savings and insurances 
which he couldve used to make  his credit card payments if he was off work. But Ive looked 
at what hes said about these and I still think the PPI couldve been useful for him. I say this 
because, upon a successful claim,  the PPI wouldve paid 10% of his outstanding monthly 
balance for up to 12 months,  on top of his existing sick pay and savings. So it could have 
cleared his credit balance  if claimed for long enough and he wouldve been  free to use his 
Ref: DRN65985232sick pay and savings  for other expenses.  Ive also looked at the insurance policies Mr R says 
he had in place  at the time, but these covered Mr R for different  eventualities  than the PPI. 
So even with these  insurances, I dont think the policy was of no use to him and I think he 
wouldve found the cover  valuable had hed needed  to claim.  
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But 
Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr R any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back to Mr R the difference  
between what Mr R owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nationwide should also pay Mr R 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6598523