K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  refunded or protected  her from the loss of 
£9,500 to a scam.
background
On 20 March 2018 Miss R made an online payment of £9,500 from her HSBC current 
account to a third-party account held with another well-known  UK bank (which Ill call the 
receiving bank in this decision).
Miss R says she made the payment to buy farm machinery from eBay, and that when the 
farm machinery didnt  arrive, she called eBay,  who signposted her to her bank  (HSBC) and 
the police. She says she then rang HSBC  and the police, and that she feels considerably let 
down by HSBC  because it didnt investigate her complaint straight  away.
HSBC paid Miss R £150 compensation  for the delay in investigating  matters.  But it didnt 
otherwise uphold her complaint because it didnt  think  it had done anything wrong. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case in October  2020.  HSBC has appealed, so 
I have reconsidered  everything and carefully  taken account of all further submissions (which 
I have summarised only briefly in my findings below  for accessibility and to comply with our 
statutory duty to resolve disputes with minimum formality).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision. I have explained my reasons again below with further comment to 
address HSBCs response where appropriate. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, I am required  
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions  of the customers account. That 
was the case  in March 2018,  and remains so now, and I have taken this into account  when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  Taking  account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should  
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Ref: DRN61993762Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
I am satisfied that Miss R authorised the payment on 20 March 2018.  So in this case, taking 
all of these things into account, I need  to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Miss R when she made the payment of £9,500 on 20 March 2018,  or 
whether it should  have  done more than it did. 
I have considered the position carefully.
In this case I think Miss Rs payment request should have alerted HSBCs systems for fraud 
checks because it was unusual and uncharacteristic in the context of Miss Rs usual account 
activity; it was to a new payee and for a significant amount.
Miss Rs account statements for the preceding nine months (dating back  to June 2017) show 
that her four largest  payments in this period prior to 20 March  2018 were £2,500 on 12 June 
2017, £1,160 on 1 August  2017, £1,725 on 1 October 2017,  and £2,000 on 13 October 
2017.
In my view, Miss Rs payment request of £9,500 was for a significantly different,  greater  
amount than these  payments. The statements show the vast majority of all other  payments  
from the account were  for modest amounts   such that the payment instruction on 20 March 
2020 for £9,500 was both for a large  amount in the context of Miss Rs usual account 
activity, and it represented a substantial increase in spending. As already mentioned, it was 
also to a new payee.
HSBC has pointed to the funds available  to Miss R at the time, and the activity of her 
savings account   points it has repeated in its response to my provisional  decision. And I do 
appreciate that on 19 March 2018 Miss R transferred £9,500 from her savings account to her 
current account (which she then used to pay the scammer from her current account), and 
that the total funds available to Miss R from both accounts was £16,730.83  prior to the 
payment being  made from her current account (£6,544.20 in her savings account plus 
Ref: DRN61993763£10,186.63 in her current account). Im not sure how HSBCs figure of £26,239.93 has been  
arrived at. But in any case, I still dont think this was usual activity for Miss R. The 
statements show that Miss Rs savings account  balance had not been  less than around 
£10,600 since 2015. The transfer from her savings account to her current account took her 
savings to £6,544.20. I also cannot see any record of Miss R having transferred funds in the 
region of this amount out of her account  before or during the relevant period.
So I am satisfied that the payment instruction was unusual and uncharacteristic  in the 
context of Miss Rs previous account  activity, and that the payment stands out  and should 
have stood out to HSBC  at the time.
How HSBC chooses to configure its fraud detection systems given competing
concerns is ultimately  a matter for HSBC to decide.  But the question I need  to consider here
is: based on all the circumstances  of this complaint, whether  HSBC  ought fairly and
reasonably to have  done  more in Miss Rs case  whether its fraud  prevention systems
detected the payment or not. Whilst I accept  there  is a balance  to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately 
to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments, I do not think  that 
means HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in this case. I also do not think that given the 
circumstances in this case as a whole  including the environment  created by the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  that HSBC ought  not to have done more 
simply because its customers do from time-to-time instruct legitimate payments that are 
unusual compared  to their usual account  activity and significant in terms of value. It is a 
question of fact and degree in each individual case.  And here, in Miss Rs case, I am 
satisfied that as a matter  of good  practice, given the unusual and uncharacteristic  nature of 
the payment instruction, that HSBC should  have  made at least some basic  enquiries before 
putting the payment through.
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  been  asked by HSBC would  have  made  a difference.
I appreciate HSBC says it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective; and that 
it doesnt think contact  with Miss R would  have made a difference. To be clear, however, Im 
not suggesting Miss R should have been subject  to an interrogation   merely, in the 
circumstances, a basic level of questioning  designed to disturb or unearth  a potential fraud 
and establish  that Miss R was not at risk of financial harm. It is important to bear in mind that 
HSBC was the financial professional with plenty of experience  and knowledge of the most 
commonplace fraud and scams; whereas  Miss R was just an ordinary customer. This should 
have triggered  appropriate questions.
I think HSBC ought  reasonably  to have asked Miss R what the payment was for and for the 
basic surrounding context. I have seen nothing that makes me think Miss R wouldnt have 
responded openly and transparently to such questions. In which case, I think HSBC  most 
likely would have quickly discovered  that Miss R was making  the payment to buy farm 
machinery from eBay.  If that had happened, it probably would have become apparent  to the 
staff member that Miss R didnt know enough  about  the farm vehicles provenance or the 
identity and credentials of the seller to be sure enough she wasnt  about  to be scammed   
and I think HSBC would have been concerned about  the way Miss R had been  asked to pay, 
as opposed to other more usual eBay payment  methods with inbuilt protections  against fraud 
and scams  (such as PayPal). I believe that eBay  was well known to banks at the time  and 
known by them to be commonly used by scammers.  As such I dont think  its an 
unreasonable expectation for HSBC to have had an awareness of the true processes around  
Ref: DRN61993764that website where  it relates to payment instructions. In other words, HSBCs basic and 
reasonable enquiries would probably  have escalated  into major concerns  and it seems 
likely it would have then asked more probing  questions and/or given Miss R an express 
warning about  fraud and scams (if not actually taking more  interventionist  steps to prevent 
the payment there and then).
Had it done so, I consider  Miss R and HSBC most likely would have  realised there were 
reasonable grounds for suspecting that something might be amiss and not have gone  ahead 
with the payment, so she would not have lost £9,500.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is unnecessary  in this case to consider whether HSBC 
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
receiving bank before they were irretrievably  removed  by the scammer(s).  But for 
completeness, I will say that, whilst there  was delay by HSBC at this stage, it does not 
appear from the evidence I have  seen that this made a difference  because it appears that 
the scammer(s) withdrew the money  before  Miss R was first in touch with HSBC  about her 
concerns.
I have considered whether Miss R should  bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. 
HSBC maintains that Miss R was negligent and ought to be held responsible for her loss. It 
has made a number of points about this, including questions about the original advert, what 
correspondence Miss R had with the scammer  on the eBay  platform, and why Miss R would 
agree to pay for the tractor without seeing  it first. HSBC  has also said that Miss R knowingly 
acted outside  eBay  guidelines, for example by corresponding with the seller  outside of eBay, 
something eBay says is not allowed as it exposes  both the buyer and seller to the risk of 
fraud. It has also said she failed to check whether the email  she thought she had received 
from eBay was actually from a valid eBay email address, whether the protected  transaction 
the seller said they would set up was indeed something what was possible on eBay;  why 
they required payment  by bank transfer, and why she was being asked to pay an account in 
a different name  to who she was communicating with. It has also questioned to what extent 
Miss R was inexperienced  given  the questions she asked the scammer about the product. 
Whilst there is information on eBay about  fraud and scams, this would  not in itself justify a
finding of contributory negligence in circumstances where we are satisfied  a customer
genuinely did not entertain any reasonable grounds for suspicion at the time and was
therefore not acting carelessly  or turning a blind eye to concerns about risks that were
reasonably foreseeable to her at the time. In principle, I can accept that Miss R might have 
done more with regard to her purchase. But this case is not about whether  the machine was 
of satisfactory quality and/or fit for purpose, etc; it is about whether a scammed  payment 
could and should have been prevented  by Miss Rs bank. Any failing on Miss Rs part was 
merely part of the background history   it might have occasioned  the loss indirectly  (insofar  
as the scam might possibly have been  exposed if shed requested a viewing, depending on 
how sophisticated the setup was), but it wasnt, in my view, the dominant or effective cause 
of the loss.
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, Miss R was 
still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was doing or the 
consequences of her actions. She thought she was simply buying farm machinery through  a 
legitimate trading website and, due to her inexperience of fraud and scams,  didnt realise  
that this was an unusual payment method or foresee  any risk of loss. In my view a person 
Ref: DRN61993765does need to reasonably  foresee the risk of some sort of loss  not necessarily the precise 
loss that occurred  in order  to be held liable in negligence.  I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to say that Miss R was careless  or partly responsible  for a loss that she simply 
did not foresee.  HSBC  hasnt persuaded me that Miss R recognised the risk or contributed  to 
her own misfortune through careless acts or omissions when making the payment. There  
may be cases where a proportionate reduction  in compensation is justified for a customers  
contributory negligence, but I am satisfied  that this is not one of them.
In my view, it was the failure of HSBC that really  caused the loss  but for its inaction in the
face of unusual or uncharacteristic activity, the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. Any
errors by Miss R were  effectively superseded by HSBCs errors, breaking  the causal chain, 
so I am not persuaded they played  a material role in the loss that actually unfolded.  I dont 
think it can fairly be said that Miss R, the layperson,  was to blame in this scenario  or that 
her compensation should be reduced  accordingly.
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Miss R for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of the money  she lost. I am satisfied  that had the fraudster  not taken the 
money from Miss R it would have remained in her savings account, so interest  should  be at 
that rate. 
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss R has suffered. In reaching  that conclusion I am mindful  that HSBC has 
already paid Miss R £150 for service failures,  and Miss Rs loss was ultimately  caused  by 
the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised transaction,  but HSBC  could  ultimately 
have prevented the payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank  Plc  and I 
direct it to:
pay Miss R £9,500 within 28 days of receiving  her acceptance of my final decision;
pay Miss R interest on the amount at the prevailing rate of her savings account, from 
20 March 2018 to the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it 
should provide  Miss R with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and 
pay Miss R £100 for distress and inconvenience  within 28 days  of receiving her 
acceptance of my final decision,  failing which interest will thereafter accrue on that 
sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6199376