K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has rejected her claim for reimbursement 
of the cost of travel  she needed to make  when she had to cut short her holiday.
background
Mrs L was on holiday abroad when she very sadly  received  news  of the death of her father 
in his home country. She needed to travel to that country as soon as possible to attend his 
funeral which, by law, had to take place  within  24 hours.
Mrs L started her holiday on 16 October and was due to return  home to the UK on 23 
October. Her father died on 17 October  and Mrs L flew to his country on 18 October, and left 
on 24 October. Her claim  was for approximately £1,400.
She made a claim against AXA for the cost of the return flight  from her holiday location  to 
her fathers country and other  associated  travel expenses to attend his funeral.  She says she 
wants to be put back  into the same  financial  position  she wouldve been in if she hadnt  had 
to make this journey.  
After some delay, AXA rejected her claim to recover the cost of her travel to her fathers 
country. It referred to the Curtailment section of her travel insurance  policy  which states  (my 
emphasis added):
What is covered 
We will pay You up to £5,000. for any irrecoverable unused  travel and accommodation costs 
(including excursions up to £250) and other  pre-paid charges which  You have paid or are 
contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel  expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation  of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable  or
b. the Trip is Curtailed before completion
Curtailment/Curtail/Curtailed
 Means either:
a. You abandoning or cutting short the Trip after You leave Your  Home (or for a Business 
Trip Your  place of business) by direct early  return to Your Home or place of business, in 
which case claims will be calculated from the day You returned to Your Home or place of 
business (whichever  is the earlier) and based  on the number of complete days  of Your Trip
You have  not used.  
After some delay, AXA took the view that in the case of cutting short a trip, the policy only 
applied if Mrs L returned to her home, which was in the UK, and not to any other  destination. 
It argued that if Mrs Ls father had died when she hadnt been on holiday, she wouldve had 
to pay the full cost of her travel to his country. 
 It recognised that a flight back  to the UK was of little use to Mrs L, who needed to get a 
direct flight  from her holiday location  to her fathers country. Returning to the UK first was not 
a practical option.  It took the view that it would be fair to pay to Mrs L a sum that 
Ref: DRN64738082corresponded to what it wouldve had to pay her if shed returned directly  to the UK. It 
calculated this sum to be £366. This would  therefore  be a contribution towards the cost of 
her travel to her fathers country.
 
AXA accordingly paid Mrs L the following:
£207.16 to reimburse  her for sums shed paid for accommodation and travel  
for her holiday which she wasnt able to use because it had been cut short.  
This included her original, unused, return flight back to the UK and the 
deduction of the £40 policy excess.
£366, which was AXAs  calculation of what a new flight from her holiday 
location back to the UK would have cost.  Mrs L rejected the offer of this sum.
£100 as a gesture of goodwill as it accepted that there had been a delay in 
making a decision  on her claim.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied  with AXAs rejection of her claim for reimbursement of the cost of her 
return travel to her fathers  funeral  and referred her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigators opinion was that AXA hadnt  acted unreasonably in rejecting  her claim as her 
policy only covered  the cost of return travel to the UK in the event of a curtailment.
Mrs L doesnt agree with our investigators assessment of her complaint and has asked  that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. Her complaint  has therefore been 
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I have sympathy  with Mrs Ls 
position, and extend my condolences for her loss, Im not going to uphold  her complaint, and 
Ill explain  why.
I consider that AXAs interpretation of the effect of the policy wording  referred to above is 
correct. In the event  that a policyholder needs  to return home early for some  substantial 
reason  and AXA doesnt dispute  that the death of Mrs Ls father was such  a reason   the 
policy effectively covers  reimbursement of wasted costs. These would include prepaid 
travel and accommodation costs which cant be refunded if not used. Its intended to put the 
insured back into the same financial position  as they would be in if they hadnt had to cut 
short their trip by returning  home  early.
What it doesnt cover,  are costs incurred as a consequence of the event that caused the 
curtailment. In other words, it doesnt  cover future costs. Nor does it cover the cost of travel 
to anywhere other than the policyholders  home or place of business. In Mrs Ls case, that 
means that it doesnt cover the cost of her travelling  to her fathers country. If future  costs  
were to be covered,  this would mean  significant  and open ended claims against insurers.  No 
travel insurance policy will cover  such claims. I think AXA makes a reasonable point is 
saying that if Mrs L hadnt  been on holiday at the time her loss occurred, she wouldve had to 
have paid all her travel costs herself.  Why, then, should someone else pay those costs just 
because she was on holiday at the time?
AXA has reimbursed Mrs L her prepaid  but unused costs. Its also paid her £366, which  is 
what it calculated it wouldve paid her if shed returned to the UK, as the policy  provides for. 
It wasnt required to make this payment under  the terms  of the policy.  In making this 
Ref: DRN64738083payment, I think AXA has acted very fairly  and reasonably.  I also consider its acted fairly in 
recognising that there was some delay in providing  Mrs L with its decision and in making a 
payment of £100  to her to compensate  for this. I dont think  its appropriate for me to require 
it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint and I dont  require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.   
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473808