K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about issues  shes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
1st Stop Car Finance Ltd.
background
In July 2017 Miss M was supplied with a used car and entered into a finance  agreement with 
1st Stop.
In November 2018 Miss M contacted  1st Stop and reported issues  with the car juddering, the 
engine not turning off and white smoke. She said the car was no longer functioning.
1st Stop asked  Miss M to arrange an independent  inspection of the car. Miss M said she 
couldnt afford to arrange an inspection. She asked 1st Stop to meet  the costs of repairs.
1st Stop rejected Miss Ms complaint. It said that because the fault had occurred 16 months 
into the agreement  it was up to Miss M to show that the fault was present at the point of 
supply.
Miss M wasnt  happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that a second hand car could 
reasonably be expected  to suffer from wear and tear issues and there was no evidence  that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss M didnt agree. She said the car needed  a new engine  and she was unhappy  that shed 
been left with a car she couldnt  use and couldnt afford to have repaired whist still being  
liable to pay the monthly payments under the finance agreement  for a further 3  years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because 1st Stop has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss M experienced the fault approximately 16 months into the agreement. Because this is 
outside of the first 6 months, its up to Miss M to show that the fault was present at the point 
of supply.
Miss M hasnt provided any evidence  to show that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Ref: DRN61022572I can see that Miss M had been  driving the car for approximately 16 months and had 
covered approximately 5000 miles  at the time when the fault occurred. If the fault had been 
present at the point of supply I would  have expected Miss M to have experienced problems  
much sooner  than she did. On balance, I think its unlikely, given the time and mileage which 
has elapsed, that the fault was present at the point of sale.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. I think its more  likely  that the fault was due to wear and tear, which  is to be 
expected in a car of this age and mileage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6102257