K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
with a credit  card. She says she was led to believe the PPI was part of the card and that she 
was required to have  it. Mrs B also said she didnt need PPI.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Ive got no doubt that Mrs B now genuinely  believes  she was mis-sold this cover. But we 
have a copy of the postal  form she used  in 2000 and I think it shows  the PPI was something 
that was optional.
I say this because  to get the PPI added  Mrs B was required to tick a box agreeing to it. 
She didnt  have to do this, but I can see she did. There was also an option  to have another 
financial product  directly below with the same action  required. I note Mrs B didnt select  that 
option. So I think this shows its much more likely Mrs B asked for the PPI and overall, I 
think Barclays properly obtained  her consent.
As this was a postal  application, its unlikely to have been an advised sale. So Barclays  
duty was limited to providing clear enough information for Mrs B to make her own decision.
I certainly can see ways in which the form could have  been clearer. But I also think  some 
additional written  information about  the rules  and terms of the PPI would have been attached 
to the application form. And even if I accept Barclays could and should have done more, I 
still dont think this would have changed  what Mrs B went on to do.
This is because the evidence  shows  Mrs B wanted  the cover and would have seen she had 
a choice. She was eligible for it and not caught  by any of the main  exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy.  The cost was around 70p for every £100  outstanding on the 
card. This was broadly  comparable with other policies  Ive seen from that time and I think 
would have been affordable for her.
I note Mrs B already had some protection against  sickness with her job. But Im afraid  this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. The policy would have  paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim and this wouldve 
been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but I think the evidence shows  she chose the policy  herself and 
would have known  it wasnt something  she needed  to have. This means Im not upholding 
her complaint.
Ref: DRN68472492my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back any 
money to Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6847249