K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the decision by Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) to decline his pet 
insurance claim.
  
background
Mr W took out a Petplan policy for this cat, which started on 23 September 2017. The policy 
was underwritten by Allianz, who are the responsible business for this complaint.
Mr Ws cat sadly  died in April 2018. Mr W submitted a claim for his cats treatment, but 
Allianz declined  it. They said the claim was related to a pre-existing condition.  They  said 
theyd based their decision on notes from Mr Ws vet and advice from their own in house vet. 
Mr W complains that his cats death wasnt the result of a pre-existing condition,  and so 
Allianz shouldnt  have declined his claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint. She thought there was enough evidence to 
suggest Mr Ws cat was suffering from a pre-existing condition. And she thought there had 
been signs of that condition  prior to Mr W taking out the Petplan policy.  So she said it was 
fair for Allianz to decline Mr Ws claim.
Mr W disagrees and has asked  for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy didnt  cover claims related to any pre-existing conditions. The policy  
defined a pre-existing condition as:
 
An injury or illness that  Is caused  by, relates  to, or results from, an injury, illness 
or clinical sign your pet had  Before your pets cover started
Illness was defined as:
Any change(s)  to a normal healthy state, sickness, disease, defects and 
abnormalities
As part of his online application,  Mr W was asked whether his cat had shown  any sign of 
illness or been unwell, and whether hed seen  a vet for any reason. Mr W said his cat had 
been treated for a non-aggressive type of skin cancer and Allianz placed an exclusion 
relating to cancer on the policy. Mr W didnt identify any other illnesses.
Ive looked first at the information Allianz  relied  on in deciding  to reject Mr Ws claim.
Theyve said they took account of the treatment records from Mr Ws vet, and have referred 
to the following points from those records:
On 8 September 2017, the vets noted that Mr Ws cat used to have a lot of vomiting 
but switched onto the hypoallergenic food and now stomach  is settled. 
Ref: DRN60889012On 22 September  2017 they said owner reports had two episodes  of regurg this 
week but none since weds. 
On 9 March 2018, the vets notes said the cat has been  having vomiting every two 
weeks.
On 24 April 2018, the notes said the cat had always been a sickly cat, has been  on 
hypoallergenic diet for suspected ibd [inflammatory bowel  disease].
On the same date,  the vets notes also said that blood tests  were consistent with 
pancreatitis. 
Mr Ws cat sadly  died on 27 April. The vet described the cats condition as 
cholangiohepatitis likely [secondary] to anorexia/pancreatitis. Another  vet 
considered the condition  to be pancreatitis.
Allianz also asked  their in-house  vet for her opinion. She said that, based on the records  
shed seen, the cat had been suffering from IBD for years. She said it was quite  common  for 
pancreatitis and cholangiohepatitis to occur  in cats with chronic  IBD. So she thought  it was a 
known risk prior to the policy that the cat could  develop  those conditions. 
Allianz also took account of a statement provided  by Mr Ws vet. She said it wasnt possible 
to definitively confirm  that the cats vomiting  episode reported on 8 September  2017  was 
unrelated to her illness which started on 24 April 2018. 
Mr W disputes Allianzs view that his claim was related to a pre-existing condition. Hes said 
it had been quite normal for his cat to vomit regularly from the time she was eight weeks old. 
Vets had told him it was fairly normal and not expressed any concern or done any further  
tests. 
Mr W has said the hypoallergenic diet was recommended  by his cats new vet. The vet 
wasnt unduly concerned about  the cats vomiting  but suggested the change in food might  
suit her better.  Hes said this was a recommendation about  her diet, not a diagnosis of a 
condition.
Ive considered carefully what both Mr W and Allianz have said. My role is to look at whether 
Allianz made  a fair and reasonable decision based on the evidence  available  to them.  
And overall,  I think they did. 
Mr W has said his cat vomited  regularly from a young age. The vets records  show that 
Mr Ws cat had been on a hypoallergenic diet since at least March 2017. Mr W has said this 
was suggested  by the vet when she was told the cat vomited regularly. The vets notes  from 
2017 dont give a reason  for this recommendation. But in April 2018, the vet recorded that 
she had always been a sickly cat, has been  on hypoallergenic diet for suspected  ibd.  
I note also that the day before the Petplan policy started Mr W had taken his cat to the vet. 
This was a post-operative  appointment related  to the cats skin cancer.  But the vet also 
noted that the cat had regurgitated twice  that week. 
Ive given particular  weight to the vets notes saying the cat was on a hypoallergenic diet for 
suspected IBD. Taking account of that, and the other evidence  available, I think it was 
reasonable for Allianz to say that Mr Ws cat had shown signs of illness  at the time he took 
Ref: DRN60889013out the policy. And that Mr W should have known  there was a problem and referred to it 
when he completed  his online application. 
Allianzs in-house vet advised that it was quite common for cats suffering from IBD to 
develop the conditions that Mr Ws cat was being  treated for when she died. In addition,  they 
had the statement from Mr Ws vet, which Ive referred to above.
So based  on the evidence available to them, I think it was reasonable for Allianz to decline 
Mr Ws claim on the basis that his cats treatment related  to a pre-existing condition.
    
Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive read carefully  all the information  hes provided, and I 
understand why he feels  strongly about  whats happened. I realise this wont  be the outcome 
Mr W was hoping for, but I think Allianz made  a fair and reasonable decision,  which  theyve 
explained clearly.  I wont  therefore be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint 
against Allianz Insurance Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6088901