K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt treated him fairly when
he asked it to take responsibility  for a breach of contract under s75 of the Consumer credit
Act, or when he asked  it to use the chargeback  process to recover his money. Mr E wants
Nationwide to refund £19,765.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March. In that I said I was minded to 
uphold Mr Es complaint  in part. I said I thought  Nationwide should pay Mr E some  
compensation and interest for the way it handled  his request for a chargeback on three 
payments of £500.  I didnt think it should  have  to refund £18,265.50 he paid using  his credit 
card.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Nationwide and Mr E have  responded to my provisional decision.
Nationwide accepts that it should  pay Mr E some compensation for the way it handled the 
chargeback request he made. It says it shouldnt have  to pay interest on any refund as its 
back-dated the refund  to the original date of payment. I appreciate  this means  Mr Es 
balance has been  recalculated with the benefit of the refund from that date on. And it may 
well be that Mr E didnt incur any charges etc because of Nationwides error. But it remains  
that Mr E still didnt have  that money to use as he wished between  the date he asked for the 
chargeback process  to start and the date of refund.  So I still think he should  receive  interest 
on the £1,500 at 8% per annum as I said. 
Mr E has raised several points. He says a customer with a similar complaint to his had a 
complaint made to this service upheld. Im afraid  I cant  take into account conclusions 
reached on other complaints, as I must reach  my decision  only on the particular 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E also says that the deposit  contract was for the purchase of materials. But I havent 
seen anything that suggests  this in the paperwork he sent us. He also says the fact that the 
three contracts were  for the same amount each time is simply how C split the work. But the 
listing I used in my provisional decision didnt have  amounts that were  identical for each of 
the three parts. 
Mr E argues  eloquently  that three separate contractors could have carried out this work. Im 
afraid Im not convinced  thats the case. I say that because its well known  that its very 
difficult to get partly  completed building work  finished by another  contractor when that need  
arises, because of the liabilities that can be inherited  by the second company. I cant  see 
that would  be any different  even if Mr E tried to arrange that with separate builders at the 
start of the process. 
These points havent changed my opinion.
Ref: DRN60684802I think the most important  point Mr E makes is that he says he did sign three separate  
contracts  but he did so online, and thinks that evidence is now lost as the portal C used is 
no longer available. Mr E has asked  the liquidators for any evidence they have, but the 
liquidator doesnt have any. Although I can see the liquidators are trying to help Mr E, they 
cant say if or when they might be able to provide the information Mr E wants  me to look at.
Without sight of the evidence  I cant  fairly conclude there were three contracts, because I 
cant see what was in each. I dont think its fair to Nationwide to keep this complaint open  
indefinitely, and Mr E has already had more than seven months  since  the date of my 
provisional decision to obtain more evidence.  If Mr E does get copies of the contracts at 
some point in the future I may, in some circumstances, be able to consider whether they 
affect this decision.  Mr E could also ask Nationwide to reconsider its position, although that 
would be Nationwides  decision. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that I should ask Nationwide  to do more than I outlined in my 
provisional decision. Mr E is of course  free to reject  this decision and ask a court  to decide 
this matter for him. If he chooses to do that, neither he nor Nationwide will be bound  by any 
part of this decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Nationwide Building Society to:
pay Mr E interest*  at 8% simple  on £1,500  from the date they requested  a
chargeback to the date of refund.
Pay £200 for the way it handled his request
*Nationwide may have  to deduct  tax from this amount before its paid. Nationwide must  give
Mr E a certificate  of tax deducted  if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60684803Copy of provisional  decision issued March 2019
complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt treated him fairly when
he asked it to take responsibility for a breach of contract under s75 of the Consumer credit
Act, or when he asked it to use the chargeback  process to recover his money. Mr E wants
Nationwide to refund £19,765.
background
Before I summarise whats happened in this complaint, Id like to explain  some words and
phrases that Ill be referring to. Theyre not complete definitions but should  help when
reading the decision.
Chargeback  this is a scheme run by card issuers (in this case  VISA) to resolve
settlement disputes. In practise, if a customer tells his bank about a problem with a payment
made by either  debit or credit card, the bank may be able to use the chargeback  process to
help him. In summary, the customer would be re-credited  with the payment and the retailer
(C in this case) given a chance to show the payment should be made. Depending upon the
arguments made, the money either stays with the customer or is repaid to the retailer.
s75  is part of the Consumer  Credit  Act. It means that, in certain circumstances, a lender
becomes equally responsible for the quality  of goods or services bought using credit. If
goods or services arent as described its referred to as a breach  of contract.  If a seller
describes something  in a way that isnt true or accurate  and the buyer is induced  into a
purchase because of that, its called  mis-representation. This protection  is triggered  if a
credit card is used for payment (or part payment) for something where the total cash price is
between £100 and £30,000.  The protection applies  to the whole amount, not just the part
paid on the credit  card.
Administration   if a company is in financial difficulties,  an administrator (often a firm of
accountants) may be appointed  by the company directors. The administrator takes over the
running of the company  and may continue to trade and complete contracts. Eventually the
company either continues or is wound up. Whilst a company is in administration, none  of its
creditors may take action against the company. In this complaint, that means Mr E cannot
ask administrators to return his money.
Liquidation   where a company cannot continue, often because a creditor (someone  the
company owes money to) has petitioned the court, the court can order that the company be
wound up. A liquidator is appointed and is responsible for realising any assets the
company has and distributing these amongst creditors. Thats usually done on a pro-rata
basis depending on the value of the assets.
what happened
Mr E and his partner spent some time negotiating with a construction  company  C  before
agreeing to have an extension built onto their home. The total cost of the work  was just over
£79,000.
Mr E then paid C £19,765   three  payments of £500 by credit card and three bank transfers
for £6088.50  each.
A couple of days later he discovered  that C had gone into administration. So he asked
Nationwide to help get his money back.
Nationwide said it wouldnt start the chargeback process for the three payments of £500 until
Mr E had tried to get his money back himself. Although Mr E explained  that C had gone into
Ref: DRN60684804administration, Nationwide couldnt find details  of this, and the records it did find showed  the
business was still trading.
Nationwide also said s75 didnt apply because the total value of the contract  was over
£30,000, meaning it fell outside the regulations. Nationwide said that meant it wasnt
responsible for any breach  of contract,  so wont  return the additional amount Mr E paid
(£18,265.50).
Mr E said that hed agreed with C to split the work into three  separate contracts specifically
to ensure s75 did apply. And he said that although one insolvency practitioner  had refused to take on 
Cs administration, another was going to. So there was no reason why Nationwide
shouldnt attempt the chargeback.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Es complaint  so he brought  his problem to us.
Our investigator initially thought  Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong,  because  she too
thought the contract was for more than £30,000. And she said without details  of an
administrator Nationwide  couldnt attempt a chargeback either. She later said she thought
Nationwide should attempt the chargeback.
Mr E is convinced he had three lower value  contracts, all of which  should fall under  s75.
Ive been asked  to decide this complaint.  Since then I see Nationwide successfully
completed the chargeback  process,  and Mr E has £1,500 of his money back.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the chargeback  process
A company  entering administration is a valid reason for a bank to attempt a chargeback on
payments made by credit card. Its a breach of contract,  and any defence would be made  by
the companys  administrators, if they thought that was appropriate.
Nationwide told Mr E that he should try to get his 3 x £500 credit card payments refunded  by
the Cs administrator. It said it wouldnt start the chargeback process unless hed done that.
It also said it couldnt  find any evidence that supported Mr Es statement  that the company
had gone into administration,  as it still showed as trading on the searches  it carried out.
The chargeback rules   which are set by VISA,  not the bank,  do say a customer  should try to
get his money back direct  from the company before asking a bank to start the chargeback
process. But that must be restricted to a situation where a customer can communicate  with a
company. Mr E did try to contact C  but got no response. And he thought  that C was in
administration and waiting  for a new administrator  to be appointed. Those are unusual
circumstances: an administrator is usually  appointed as soon  as a company  files for
administration. However, it appears that the first administrator approached refused the
appointment. Ive seen  the web page for C from early June, which  says a new administrator
will be appointed within a week. So I understand why Mr E thought  as he did. The only
information I can see after that  which is from public sources  is that a petition to wind up
the company was issued in mid June, and a winding up order  was made in mid August, and
liquidators appointed.
Having said that, it seems to me that C was either trading, in administration or subject to a
winding up order. I dont  think it ever entered administration  because  no administrator was
appointed. So, at least technically, it was trading up to the middle of August. I think
Nationwide could and should  have started the chargeback  process in June when Mr E asked
Ref: DRN60684805it to.
Nationwide has eventually completed a successful chargeback. I suspect thats because  a
chargeback is actually  raised against one of the businesses (called a merchant acquirer) in
the VISA  chain  not C directly.
I think  Nationwides actions has meant Mr E have been deprived of the use of this money  
so Im intending to ask Nationwide to add interest at 8% per annum  to the £1,500 refund
from the date Mr E asked it to start the chargeback  process to the date of payment.  And I
dont think it responded well to Mr E, which meant he had to spend more time sorting this out
than necessary, when he was already understandably upset by the loss of his money. Im
intending to ask Nationwide to pay Mr E £200 compensation for this.
contract value
As I explained above,  s75 protection only applies to goods or contracts valued between
£100 and £30,000,  that are part or wholly paid for using  (in this case) a credit card. .
Its clear theres been  a breach of contract because C is in liquidation and hasnt done any of
the work the deposit  was for. Its also possible there was mis-representation.  And we know
Mr E used a credit card for part payment.
I think  these two parts  of the s75 regulations have been met.
So the outstanding issue  is whether Mr E had three contracts  each  worth less than
£30,000  or one, worth about £79,000.
Mr E says he intended to enter into three separate contracts for the building work. He says
he discussed this with C, which agreed thats what would happen. I dont doubt  that was his
intention. I can also see from his emails that he wanted to go into the company offices to
sign any contract(s)  and C agreed he could do that.
However, before any contract(s) were issued, Mr E paid a total of £19,765.50 to C. He did
this by paying  3 x £500 on his credit card and 3 x £6,088.50 direct  from his bank account.
The payments are referenced as Evans 1 2 and 3 as instructed by C. All the money went
into the same business account. Im not sure why Mr E paid any money before seeing any
formal paperwork, but it remains that he did.
Without any written  contracts  I need to decide whether  Mr E did have three contracts  or only
one. So Ive looked carefully at the paperwork that is available, which  is largely a series  of
emails between  Mr E and C discussing a quotation and a discount  (portfolio) offer C was
making.
The quotes show that when negotiations  concluded the value  of all the work was for about
£79k  well over the £30k limit.
There are various cost options, but I think the pertinent one is summarised in this table,
which Ive taken  from the email trail in April/May 2018 and appears to be the quote Mr E
accepted.
Portfolio price with maximum discount  would be
Ref: DRN60684806Total  excluding VAT   £                        65,882.36
VAT  £                         13,179.64
 Toto/ inclu sive of VAT                               79,062 .00
Payment Schedule
Drawin gs to  be paid  with the  deposit inc VAT
Contract I Deposit for  works  25 % £                         19,765.50
Contract 2 Groundworks &  Footings   £                         19,765.50
Contract 3 Complete  shell  water tight   £                         14,231.16
Contract 3 Completion   £                          9,487.44
Retention for  snaggi ng  after 14 days   £                         15,812.40
Build  Total  including Drawings  £                        79,062.00
Im mindful that this quote is identical to an earlier  one with the exception  that the words
contract 1, contract 2 etc have been added. The payments Mr E made   albeit there were
six separate payments   totalled the amount of contract 1 above  which is described as a
25% deposit  for all the work.
I dont think thats what Mr E would have paid if he was setting up three different contracts
and paying a 25% deposit on each  hed have paid different amounts  towards  each
contract, simply because  each  contract would  have a different  value.
The paperwork ends  by giving instructions for how deposits and stage payments were to
be made, which is how payments are often described in a single contract.
Mr E also sent us the receipt issued by C for the amount they paid. Although  it
acknowledges there are several payments, it describes the work simply as extension and
shows the total value as £79,062. Theres no indication  there were three contracts   no
references or separate contract values.
Ive also thought  about  whether Mr E could  have  had three contracts that were independent
of each other, but all taken  out with C. I dont think that was possible.  The work that was
being undertaken was an extension. It wouldnt be possible to complete stages   or
contracts  two or three without stage one etc. Ive also seen  that Mr E asked C to tell him in
detail what was included in each part of the quote, but C said it couldnt  do that because
some component parts were  more  heavily discounted than others and the overall amount
was interdependent on this. It went  on to say if customers could pick and choose which
elements they bought  the whole cost would  become skewed.
On balance I currently  think there was only one contract. But I will take into account any
further evidence Mr E has to support  his argument about three contracts before I reach  a
final decision.
Im sorry Mr E and his partner have been the victims of an unscrupulous company.  And I
hope he is able to get the rest of his deposit  (or at least some of it) back through the
liquidators of C. But Im not currently intending to ask Nationwide to do more  than it has on
this part of the complaint.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint in part, and order Nationwide Building Society to:
pay Mr E interest* at 8% simple on £1,500 from the date they requested a
chargeback to the date of refund.
Ref: DRN60684807Pay £200  for the way it handled his request
*Nationwide may have  to deduct  tax from this amount before its paid. Nationwide  must give
Mr E a certificate of tax deducted if he asks for one.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6068480