K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Elderbridge  Limited is acting unfairly and unreasonably by 
failing to offer new mortgage products. They want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs C had an interest only buy to let mortgage with Elderbridge  through  a broker  
(originally taken out with another lender who sold the mortgage to Elderbridge  in 2016). 
Mr and Mrs C said that they asked about  other mortgage product available  with Elderbridge 
and were told that it didnt  offer other products. Mr and Mrs C feel that this isnt fair.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Elderbridge. It said that neither the original lender or 
Elderbridge offered new products or lending, and the original lender had been  able to sell 
the mortgage under the terms and conditions accepted by Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that Elderbridge wasnt  at fault. 
She said neither  the original lender nor Elderbridge were offering new mortgage products 
and this wasnt unfair. The possibility that Mr and Mrs C mightnt be able to go to another 
lender wasnt Elderbridges fault in the adjudicators opinion. She also noted  that it might  be 
possible to change the mortgage to a repayment mortgage or the length of the mortgage  
with Elderbridge if it was affordable. Mr and Mrs C disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consumers generally  dont have a right to require lenders to offer new products. Lenders  are 
able to use their commercial judgement about  whether  to lend at all, and if so, on what basis. 
Elderbridge is able to decide that it isnt going  to offer new products to anyone  and I cant  
interfere with that decision.  Lenders  are also able to sell mortgages to other businesses 
(unless there  are legal reasons  why this isnt possible).
In Mr and Mrs Cs case, while I understand  their frustration, Elderbridge isnt acting unfairly 
or unreasonably,  and isnt responsible for their difficulties  in getting a new mortgage from 
another lender. I note that Elderbridge is willing  to consider an application to change  the 
length of the mortgage  or change it to a repayment mortgage. This is fair and reasonable. 
However, its also fair and reasonable for it to note that any changes have to be affordable 
for Mr and Mrs C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 February  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6083279