K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a bus driver. He has told us he was entitled to at least 
three months sick pay and that he didnt have any other means of repaying his credit card 
should he be unable  to work.  Mr S has been contradictory in regard to his health at the time,  
originally saying that he was in good health  and more  recently  saying that he had a medical  
condition at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ss credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 89p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
HSBC has sent us information  to show that the credit card account  closed  in 2003.
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr S about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN65288022Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in November 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like 
this became regulated by the FSA in January  2005. So the FSAs  and the FCAs overarching  
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN65288023Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr S sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN65288024Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that Mr S filled in at home and then posted  back.  
There is a section for PPI with yes and no boxes that could be ticked  to either request or 
decline the policy. Mr S has ticked the yes box. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Both HSBC  and Mr S agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr S. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr S to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
HSBC has provided  us with Mr Ss application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says he would have received, including  the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mr Ss. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr S at the time,  I dont think HSBC gave Mr S the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mr S any information about the 
PPI but it referred  him to a leaflet about it. I think its unlikely Mr S would have agreed to take 
it out without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr S would have 
thought it was free.
But it was HSBCs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ss attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded HSBC did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr S, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that HSBC  adequately drew 
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think HSBC  gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
Ref: DRN65288025attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either.
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr S. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr S suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr S would have still 
taken out the policy,  had HSBC done  things properly. 
Mr S says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr S thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN65288026In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr S ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that HSBC didnt make  clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr S didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S knew  about or 
received treatment for in the 12 months  before the start date; 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr S says he had a medical condition 
some time before the policy was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had 
he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better information about this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr S says he suffered 
from whiplash in 2000 but actually he is unsure of the dates and thinks  it might  have been  in 
January 2000.  Regardless of this, Mr S hasnt said that the injury failed to heal or that he 
continued to suffer from it beyond the couple of months that he has mentioned.  So I am not 
persuaded that Mr S would have thought that his earlier whiplash injury might be a reason 
for him having  to make a claim  on the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he would have been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr S might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN65288027If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr S was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr S would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a 
Ref: DRN65288028better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr S and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6528802