K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about the handling  of a claim under their home  insurance  
policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).  
Mr and Mrs B are represented in this complaint  by their son. Any time I refer to Mr and Mrs B 
in this decision, it should be read as including anything said or done  on their behalf by their 
son. 
background
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs B had a leak from the toilet in an upstairs bathroom, which  caused  
considerable water damage to their kitchen below. Mr and Mrs B held home emergency 
insurance policy which dealt with the repair to the toilet.. 
RSA has accepted the claim and agreed  to cover the repairs required to the damaged areas. 
However, Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the handling of the claim. It was established  in 
July 2018 that the contractors could not match the existing kitchen and as RSA will only pay 
to replace the three damaged kitchens units, the kitchen would not match. 
 
RSA says that the policy does not include cover  for matching items, sets or suites,  so it will 
not pay for the undamaged units. However,  it has agreed to contribute 50% of the cost for 
the matching units as well as waiving the £150 excess  due to delays that have  occurred 
during validation of the claim.
Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with this. They want a higher contribution  to the cost of the 
kitchen replacement and say they have  never  seen the policy  terms referred to by RSA.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt consider that RSA needed to pay 
anything more than 50% towards the rest of the kitchen units  that were  undamaged and this 
was in line with our approach to similar  complaints.  The investigator  also explained that RSA 
didnt sell the policy to Mr and Mrs B and so was not responsible for providing them with a 
copy of the policy documentation. 
The investigator did however, consider that RSA could have started the work required to the 
rest of the house, pending agreement  about the kitchen.  Mr and Mrs B had asked in March 
2018 that the work be done  in stages to minimise the disruption to them  and RSA had 
suggested it could  accommodate this but no work  has yet been done. He recommended  that 
RSA pay a £150 compensation for this.
 
RSA didnt accept  the investigators assessment and neither did Mr and Mrs B, so the matter 
was referred to me.
In the meantime, as Mr and Mrs B asked for a cash settlement of the claim rather than for 
RSA to arrange the replacement of the kitchen, RSA has provided a figure  for the amount it 
is proposing to pay for the claim. This is on the basis of an like-for like replacement  of the 
damaged cupboards and 50% of the cost of the undamaged  units so that they match,  to 
include labour;  and the repairs  to the other parts of the house. It says this amounts to a total 
of £4,915.76, with the 50% contribution being £1,234.44 of that total.  
The investigator thought this was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN61393752Mr and Mrs B dont  accept the investigators assessment and have raised a number of 
issues and made a number of submissions,  which Ive summarised  below: 
The kitchen originally  cost £15,000  (although elsewhere they have said £10,000).
The value of the kitchen should  be time adjusted as it is worth  £15-20,000  now.  
They had obtained a quote for replacement on a special offer, which  is no longer 
available. The delays have  meant the costs will be higher. 
A quarter  of the kitchen units are damaged, so how can the offer RSA has made be 
right on a £10,000 kitchen?  
They have not been provided  with details of the specification of the kitchen  it has 
based its prices on.  
It is not possible to replace their kitchen with an equivalent specification  kitchen  for 
the amount offered.   
RSA should  pay a 75% contribution  as an exception under the Disability 
Discrimination Act, as Mr and Mrs B are disabled; and to reflect  the delays which  
theyve endured.  
The stress and anxiety caused by RSA has now caused their conditions  to worsen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was a considerable leak at Mr and Mrs Bs property and I can understand the distress  
and inconvenience  this has caused.  
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides for repairs following an escape of water such as happened in 
their property this but specifically states that there  is no cover for undamaged  units  which 
form part of a set:
Matching items
We will not pay the cost of replacing,  repairing  or changing any undamaged items  or parts  of 
items forming part of a set, suite, carpet  or other items of a common  nature, colour, design 
or use. This applies  if the other items  can still be used and the loss or damage only affects  
one part of the set.
This is not unusual or unfair. However, where  a match cant be found and any replacement  
would therefore  affect the overall  look of the damaged area,  we would usually  expect an 
insurer to contribute  to the cost of the undamaged units.  RSA has already offered to pay 
50% towards  the cost of the undamaged kitchen units and I agree with the investigator that 
this is fair and reasonable. I am not persuaded that it needs to pay any more than this. 
RSA has offered to carry out the repairs and installation  of the new kitchen, which would 
mean Mr and Mrs B would have to pay 50% of the cost of the undamaged units. However, 
Mr and Mrs B have  asked for cash in lieu instead. RSA has agreed to this but I agree  with 
the investigator that it only needs  to pay what it would cost it to do the work, as it is not 
obliged to provide a cash settlement instead.
RSA employed loss adjusters to prepare  a scope of works required,  for the kitchen and other 
damaged areas of the house.  This includes the damaged units, 50% for the undamaged 
units and is for a kitchen  it has sourced as being a like-for-like in terms of quality  and style.  
Ref: DRN61393753Mr and Mrs B have  said its not possible to replace their kitchen for the amount offered, as 
their kitchen is now worth £15  20,000. I am not persuaded by their argument that their 
kitchen has effectively gone up in value since it was installed. And they have given different 
estimates of the cost of it when it was first purchased. RSA has apparently sourced a similar 
quality and specification  kitchen, having  inspected the existing kitchen. Ive seen no 
convincing evidence that the kitchen  it has based its prices on is not a suitable replacement.  
I also note Mr and Mrs B have selected a kitchen from a DIY store  which costs around 
£4,200 for all the units and plinths. This is at a 50% discount but I understand the discounted 
offers are often available.  The cost of the units on the estimate provided by RSA are very 
similar to the cost of the units in the quote Mr and Mrs B have  obtained.  
I am therefore of the opinion that RSA only need contribute  50% of the cost of the 
undamaged units  and on the evidence  available to me, the offer made in lieu of the kitchen 
replacement is fair and reasonable.  
I do agree  with the investigator, however, that an additional £150  should be paid as 
compensation for the delays in starting work to the other areas of the house. This was 
apparently first requested in March 2018. I can see that not all the delays are due to RSA but 
I do consider that some  progress could have been  made. 
Finally, the investigator  explained that RSA didnt sell the policy to Mr and Mrs B and so was 
not responsible  for providing them with a copy of the policy  documentation.  I cant  therefore 
take this issue  any further in the context of this decision  against RSA. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs B the sum of £150 as compensation for the delay  in starting some of the repair works to 
their property.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139375