K820x#14complaint
Miss M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.
background
Miss M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2009. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. The policy  covered  Miss M if she was unable to work through  accident, sickness or 
redundancy.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. I explain why below.
Both Halifax and Miss M have told us that the PPI policy was sold in a meeting.  Halifax  has 
limited paperwork available from the sale, which isnt surprising given the sale took place 
several years ago. So I need  to think about whats most likely to have happened.  
Ive taken into account what I know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents we have seen  in the past and Ive considered the time thats past since 
the sale. Ive also considered that within a key facts document  that I have seen, included at 
section 9 is a description of the insurances the consumers had to take out through  Halifax.  It 
says, You do not need  to buy any insurance through  Halifax plc. So I think  its more  likely 
that Halifax got the agreement of Miss M to take the policy  and that she did so knowing  she 
had a choice to do so.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Miss M  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Miss M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Miss M seems  to have had a need for the 
cover. Miss M told us that she had savings of around 3 to 6 months  of her yearly salary.  But 
the PPI policy  wouldve  paid out on top of any provisions Miss M would have received and 
would have covered her for up to 12 months  if she was unable  to work because  of accident 
or sickness, or if she lost a job. So I think Miss M couldve  found  the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Miss M.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Miss M, Halifax also had to give her clear 
enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Halifax gave Miss M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
Ref: DRN69033752But for the same reasons  Ive mentioned  above that I think  the policy was suitable for her, 
I dont think better information  wouldve stopped her from buying  it. 
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6903375