K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about issues  hes experienced with a canopy cover fitted to a truck 
purchased with finance from Alphabet  (GB)  Limited.
background
In June 2017 Mr H was supplied with a truck  and entered into a hire agreement  with 
Alphabet.
Mr H experienced issues  with the canopy  leaking and the roof bars rattling. He reported this 
to the dealer but they said the canopy had been  fitted by a third party so they wouldnt take 
responsibility for it.
Mr H complained to Alphabet. Alphabet  said it hadnt financed the canopy or the roof bars 
and therefore  couldnt be held responsible for any repairs.
Mr H complained to this service. He says he didnt pay for the canopy or the roof bars 
separately and that they were included in the finance agreement.
An Ombudsman issued  a jurisdiction decision and found that because the truck was 
supplied by Alphabet, and because  the extras were fitted before the truck was supplied  to 
Mr H, Alphabet was responsible for the quality of the truck including  the canopy  and the roof 
bars.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said the third party  who had fitted  the 
canopy stated  on its website that it couldnt  guarantee that the canopy would be 100% 
waterproof. She also said she hadnt seen  any evidence  that there was a fault with the roof 
bars. She concluded that the truck was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr H didnt agree. He said there had been  ongoing issues  with the canopy since the point of 
supply and the salesman had promised to sort out the electrics  along with the roof bars but 
this had never been done. Mr H said hed been unable to use the truck for its intended 
purpose due to the leaking  canopy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Alphabet has supplied the truck  under a hire agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. A truck is of satisfactory quality if it is of a standard  that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors  such as the age 
and mileage of the car, the price  paid, fitness  for purpose, safety and durability. 
Mr H experienced issues  with the roof bars whistling and water leaking from the canopy. He 
says he reported  the issues to the supplying dealer in March  2018 but they werent resolved.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  theres 
a presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale.  After  6 months 
the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was 
present at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN64534612In this case, Mr H reported  the issues with the canopy and the roof bars outside  of the first 6 
months so its up to him to show that there  was a fault at the point of supply.
Mr H and Alphabet disagree  about  whether the truck had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the truck  was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
An expert engineers  report  can help to determine  whether  a vehicle is of satisfactory quality. 
There hasnt been an independent inspection in this case and the truck has been handed 
back so there wouldnt  be any benefit in obtaining one now. Ive therefore based my decision 
on the available information including service/repair  records,  call transcripts and relevant 
websites.
I can see that Mr H first mentioned a canopy  leak in March 2018, approximately 9 months  
after the point  of supply. The third party who supplied and fitted  the canopy suggested using 
sealant to remedy  the leaks. Ive looked at the third partys website. This states that it cannot  
guarantee that a canopy will be 100% waterproof and offers  sealant  free of charge.
Ive looked at the call transcript between Mr H and the supplier when the canopy was 
ordered. This suggests that it was Mr H who chose the third party  canopy  supplier. Because 
of this, I wouldve  expected Mr H to have undertaken some  research  into the type of canopy 
hed selected  by looking at the third partys website.  I think  Mr H ought  to have been aware 
that the canopy wasnt guaranteed to be 100% waterproof.
On balance Im persuaded that the canopy  was leaking  when Mr H reported  the issue in 
March 2018. But I havent seen any evidence  to persuade me that the canopy was leaking  at 
the point of supply. If it had been leaking at the point of supply, I wouldve expected Mr H to 
complain sooner than he did. Furthermore,  I dont think the fact that the canopy  was leaking 
means that there  is a fault, because its clear from the third party suppliers  website that the 
canopy isnt guaranteed to be 100% waterproof.
In relation to the roof bars, I can see that Mr H mentioned rattling  noise in March 2018. Prior 
to this I can see hed been in touch  with the dealer regarding the fitting  of the roof bars.  
Although Mr H raised the issue of the roof bars rattling, I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that this was an issue from the point of supply, or that there was an inherent 
fault with the roof bars which was causing them to rattle.
In relation to the electrics, I can see from the call transcript  that Mr H was made aware  that 
the third party  supplier wasnt able to do the electrics. Mr H has said that the supplying 
dealer had promised to sort out the electrics  when it fitted the roof bars. I havent seen any 
evidence to support  this. It hasnt been  mentioned in the call transcript  and I havent seen 
any other documents to suggest  that this had been  agreed.
There isnt a dispute that the electrics werent connected but Im not persuaded that this 
made the truck  of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose. Im persuaded that Mr H was 
aware that the electrics couldnt be connected by the third party  canopy supplier and based 
on what Ive seen he accepted the truck  on that basis.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im not persuaded that the issues  with 
the canopy and the roof bars were present at the point of supply. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that theres a fault with the canopy or the roof bars and although  I 
Ref: DRN64534613accept that the canopy was leaking,  Im of the view that Mr H ought to have known that it 
wouldnt be 100%  waterproof. Im not persuaded that there was a fault wit the electrics 
because Im satisfied that Mr H was made aware  at the outset that the electrics couldnt be 
fitted by the third party canopy supplier and I cant see that there was any agreement for 
anyone else to fit the electrics.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im unable to say that the truck  was of unsatisfactory quality.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6453461