K820x#14summary and background to the complaint
Ms P said Canada Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) with two loans  in 2006.  She says she didnt  need the PPI. 
Canada Square  didnt agree we could look at a complaint about  how the PPI was sold  
because it thought Ms P had made the complaint too late. And Canada Square also said that 
it doesnt have  to give back any of the commission or profit  share it received  because the 
rules and guidance about this dont apply to her complaint. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Ms Ps complaint 
about how these  policies were sold. And they thought  that what  Canada Square had said 
about commission and profit  share  was right. Ms P disagreed  with this, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying  to this service say that, 
where a business  doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made  more  than six years  after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three  years  after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been  aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)   which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Canada Square hasnt  agreed. 
Ms Ps complaint was made in 2019. This is more than six years  after Canada  Square sold 
the policies to her  in 2006   which is the event shes complaining about. So, I need to think 
about whether  the complaint was made within  three years of when Ms P ought reasonably 
have been aware  that she had cause to complain.  
Ms P says she didnt  think the PPI was necessary  because she had insurance through  her 
work. Canada Square has provided  evidence that it sent Ms P a letter  in 2012 saying that 
she had PPI and highlighting  potential problems with the sale. I think this letter shouldve 
made Ms P aware that had cause to complain   because it explained the sort of thing the 
PPI covered.  This means Ms P needed to make her complaint about the sale of the policies 
by 2015. But she didnt complain until 2019  outside of the time limits that apply. 
I can still look into complaints made  outside  the time limits  if Im satisfied the failure  to 
comply with them was due to exceptional  circumstances.  Ms P says that if shed received 
the letter in 2012, shed  have made  her complaint  then. But Ive seen evidence  that the letter 
was sent to her correct  address.  And Im not aware of any reason why this wouldnt have 
been delivered to her. So, I think its likely that she did receive the letter   although she may 
have since forgotten  about it. And Im not aware of any other reason why Ms P wouldve 
been unable  to bring her complaint within the relevant time limits. 
Because of this, Ive decided that were unable to help Ms P with her complaint about  how 
these policies were  sold. 
Finally, as I explained above, Canada Square  has said it doesnt  have to pay back  
any of the commission  or profit share Ms P might have paid with her policies. On the face 
of it, I think  thats a fair response to this part of Ms Ps complaint. This is because  Ms 
Ps credit agreements arent ones the new rules  apply to  because they werent 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Ref: DRN63629262my decision  
Im unable to look into Ms Ps complaint about how her policies were sold, as the complaint 
was made  out of time.  And Canada Square  doesnt have to refund any of the commission or 
profit share it received.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6362926