K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his car insurance claim, 
delayed their decision unnecessarily  and failed  to provide him with information he requested.
background
Mr G has car insurance with Admiral.
He was involved in an accident and breathalysed at the scene, the reading was 41 mg / 100 
ml of breath. 
He was later breathalysed again  at the police station. The reading was 39 mg / 100 ml of 
breath.
Mr G wasnt prosecuted for drink-driving. He says the reading of 39 mg / 100 ml of breath is 
below the threshold  at which the police prosecute.
Admiral didnt make a decision on the accident  claim because  they were waiting for 
information from the police regarding the breathalyser readings.  They  then declined  the 
claim on the basis Mr G was over the legal  limit for alcohol when the accident  occurred.
Mr G made  a complaint  to Admiral. He said theyd delayed  the claim unnecessarily  because 
hed told them about the breathalyser readings.  
He said they shouldnt decline the claim because  he was below the prosecution limit for 
alcohol at the time of the accident.  
And he said they hadnt provided him with a recording of the call hed made when he 
reported the accident despite him making  a subject  access request under the Data  
Protection Act.
Admiral didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Admiral  had done anything  wrong.
Mr G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy. This says:  
If an accident happens whilst you (are) found  to be over the legal limit for alcohol 
or drugsno  cover under the policy will be provided 
The legal limit for alcohol whilst driving  is 35 mg / 100 ml of breath. So, Mr G  with readings 
of 41 and 39 mg  was over the legal  limit.
Ref: DRN60914792Mr G has pointed out that home office  guidance suggests breathalyser  equipment has an 
accuracy tolerance of plus or minus 3 mgs.  It also says two tests should  be taken and the 
lowest reading used.
Mr Gs lowest  reading is 39 mg. Taking off the 3 mg accuracy tolerance leaves 36 mg. Thats  
still above the legal limit.
Mr G has also said his reading was below the prosecution limit (40 mg). The policy  doesnt  
say no cover will be provided if youre  over the prosecution limit or if you get prosecuted. It 
says theres no cover  if youre  over the legal limit (35 mg).
Mr G also says the policy term is unusual,  unfair  and ambiguous.  And that therefore Admiral 
shouldnt be allowed to rely on it to decline his claim. And it ought to have been pointed  out 
to him when  he bought the policy.
It isnt unusual. Its included in many car insurance  policies. And I think  most  people would 
expect to see it in car insurance policies. 
Its not hidden  in the small print of Mr Gs policy. I dont see why he would expect that it 
should be brought specifically to his attention before he bought the policy.
Its not onerous or unfair  either. I cant imagine that anyone would believe they could or 
should be entitled to buy a policy which allowed claims  to be met if the policyholder was 
driving whilst  over the legal limit for alcohol.
And the policy term isnt ambiguous, in my view. I cant see any reasonable reading of it 
which would suggest  Mr Gs claim might  be met given the breathalyser readings  at the time 
of the accident.
It wasnt unreasonable or unfair for Admiral to delay  making a decision on this claim until 
they had the police report which detailed  the breathalyser readings. 
Its entirely understandable  that they wanted  to see independent verification of the facts 
before they made a decision. And Admiral  arent  responsible for any delays in the police 
providing their report.
In any case, as I understand it, once Mr G confirmed he had a copy  of the breathalyser 
readings and provided it, Admiral made  a decision reasonably  speedily.
Admiral say they initially responded to Mr Gs subject access request in a timely manner. He 
later said he hadnt  received the information.  Admiral sent it again  one day after Mr G had 
told them  he hadnt  received it - and asked Mr G to get back to them if he didnt receive it 
again. 
If Mr G had received the original response, he would have had the requested  information 
within days. He didnt report that he hadnt  received it until over a month later and the 
response was sent again almost immediately. The total elapsed  time from the first request to 
the second response was just over a month.  In all of the circumstances, I cant say thats  
unfair or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN60914793In summary:  the decision to decline the claim is reasonable;  the delays in the decision 
werent Admirals fault and in any case werent unreasonable; and the responses to Mr Gs 
requests for information were reasonably prompt.
I cant find any reason at all to suggest  Admiral have acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Mr G in the way they handled  this claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6091479