K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that NRAM Limited  has treated him unfairly and made mistakes in the 
management of his mortgage account. Mr W says NRAM  has gone back  on a direction set 
out in a previous ombudsmans decision.
Mr W wants NRAM to switch his mortgage back onto an interest only concession  which  he 
says is affordable.
background
In 2008 Mr W took out a mortgage with NRAM for £109,000. The mortgage was taken out 
over a 25 year term and was on given  a capital repayment basis.  Alongside the mortgage 
Mr W also took out an unsecured loan of £30,000  with NRAM, over a 25 year term.
By June  2017  Mr W contacted NRAM. He explained  he was suffering from a long-term  health  
condition, and that due to his ill health hed lost his job. At that time Mr W had reached  out to debt 
charities to see what support was available to him. Hed also proposed  to NRAM that he pay just 
the interest payments on his mortgage  for a time until he sorted out his finances. 
At that time NRAM said it couldnt do anything to help Mr W and that hed need to sell his property. 
Mr W complained  about this in 2017. This complaint was previously considered  by us under a 
different case reference and was upheld. A final decision was issued on 18 June  2018,  setting out 
what NRAM should do to put things right. One part of this direction was to grant  Mr W an interest 
only concession as a method of forbearance, to freeze interest on his Together loan, and to accept 
nominal payments towards  his unsecured loan of around £5 per month. The intention  was to 
provide a concession to Mr W as he was expecting his position to improve in the near term through 
a couple of potential avenues.
In early 2019 Mr W contacted our service again. He felt he was experiencing the same 
problems hed had before with NRAM and that it was treating him unfairly. Mr W complained 
that NRAM had gone  back on the final decision by switching his mortgage back to full capital 
repayment. It had also started charging  interest  on his unsecured loan and wanted full 
repayments on that too. Mr W wanted  his mortgage  concession previously directed by an 
ombudsman reinstated.
Mr W said NRAM had made mistakes  administering the mortgage such  as making it hard for 
him to speak  with NRAM over the phone. 
On 6 June 2019 NRAM gave its final response  to Mr Ws complaint. It said that it had 
complied with the ombudsmans decision.  But at the point it became apparent that the court 
action against  Mr Ws previous employer that was scheduled for May 2018 would be at least 
five years away, it wanted to review  the arrangement. NRAM  said it was concerned that an 
interest only concession  wouldnt  be in Mr Ws best interests in the medium  term so it had 
ended it.
NRAM upheld the part of Mr Ws complaint about  it being difficult at times for him to make 
contact by telephone. NRAM accepted that it had not continued with a phone call on 31 
October 2018 despite Mr W passing  its security questions. NRAM apologised for this and 
upheld this part of the complaint although  it didnt  think Mr W had suffered financial loss as a 
result of this mistake.
Ref: DRN64710312Mr W disagreed  with NRAMs final response.  Our investigator thought  that NRAM had acted 
reasonably in light of Mr Ws changing circumstances. However, she thought that Mr Ws 
repayments had been incorrectly calculated. NRAM agreed and offered  Mr W £100 for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this oversight. Our investigator thought that award  was 
reasonable to settle the matter.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman reach a final 
decision on the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision dated 21 September 2020. In it I said:
When I considered Mr Ws first complaint, he was planning legal action against his previous 
employer and he was hoping to receive further funds shortly.  He was also pursuing a complaint 
through the Pensions Ombudsman  to try to get access to an ill health  pension, following his 
deteriorating health preventing him from being able to work.
It seems  that Mr Ws not yet seen a resolution on either front. In previous conversations  with 
NRAM, Mr Ws said that hes still challenging his previous  employer with legal action. He has said 
that settlement  is likely to be years  away. Mr W doesnt seem  to be in receipt  of his pension  
benefits either although its unclear  from all the information presented whether Mr W still has a 
complaint with the Pensions Ombudsman  or not. It seems that things havent gone as Mr W had 
hoped, and Im sorry to hear that he continues to experience financial difficulties.
Im also conscious that Mr W suffers from chronic ill health and his condition  is worsening. I 
appreciate that these  will have been difficult times  for Mr W, and that managing  his financial affairs  
whilst suffering poor health is an ongoing  challenge.
did NRAM act unfairly  when it removed Mr Ws interest only concession and the interest rate 
forgiveness and payment  arrangement on his Together loan?
Interest only concessions are typically only granted for relatively short  periods of time, to help 
someone get back up to date with their mortgage. 
In early 2019 NRAM was told by Mr W that the legal action that he was planning was not going  to 
be happening  in the near term.  In fact, Mr W has said it was years away from being resolved. 
NRAMs told us it was concerned that the short-term  interest  only concession may end up being 
more of a long-term  arrangement and that it wanted  to revisit Mr Ws plans and how it could help 
him with his mortgage. 
In March and April 2019 NRAM made  several  attempts to call Mr W about this. Ive seen evidence 
of this in its contact history. Ive also heard a voicemail message that NRAM left in March  2019 
which asked Mr W to get in touch without delay. It seems Mr W didnt call back  at that time. 
Because NRAM couldnt get in touch  with Mr W it wrote Mr W a letter in March  2019 saying it 
would be removing his interest only concession the following month and switching the mortgage  
back to capital repayment. 
Then in April 2019 it wrote to Mr W saying that it would be charging  interest  on his Together  loan 
again from May 2019 and expecting a full monthly  repayment rather than freezing interest and 
accepting £5 per month as set out in the ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN64710313I see why he questioned NRAMs actions, and felt he was being treated unfairly. I can also see 
why he felt NRAM was going back on a previous direction  from an ombudsman. 
I have thought about the arguments presented by both parties  and I see their respective positions. 
I think it was reasonable  that NRAM wanted to revisit Mr Ws current  finances to make sure the 
interest only concession  was a way to help Mr W over a longer period of time.  NRAM says it 
wanted to discuss  what Mr Ws plans were  and how it could  help him in the more medium  term. 
However, I can also see why it didnt seem to Mr W that NRAM was trying to help or support him. 
By NRAM not explaining  its actions to Mr W, as it has to us, it effectively took away  all forbearance 
without considering what this would mean for Mr W in his specific  circumstances or telling him why.  
Instead, the absence of a meaningful explanation  by NRAM, or offer of other support, simply led 
straight to another complaint.
I appreciate NRAM tried to contact  Mr W before the interest only arrangement was discontinued.  
And it may have followed, if Mr W had answered  one of the calls attempted  in March,  that a good 
explanation of NRAMs concerns and a robust discussion of alternative support may have followed.  
But no phone contact  was made.  When NRAM couldnt get through  on the phone,  I think  it would 
have been reasonable  for it to have written a letter  explaining its concerns, and what would happen 
next. Instead Mr W was sent a standard letter simply saying his interest only concession  was 
ending.
I think it was unfair for NRAM to have taken away the forbearance on Mr Ws mortgage and 
Together loan without talking to him about why this was first. This is particularly relevant in the 
specific complex circumstances of this case-  including  historic issues with the handling  of this 
mortgage, Mr Ws vulnerability, as well as the fact that this form of forbearance had been directed, 
on a temporary basis at least, by an ombudsman.
  
what do I think should happen now to put things right?
Im aware that this mortgage has now been transferred to a new lender.  Mr W will need to liaise 
with that lender going forward. However,  at the time of this complaint, NRAM was responsible for 
the handling of the mortgage account. And, for the reasons Ive given, I consider that in its 
handling of Mr Ws mortgage  account it fell short of the level of service I would expect.
My provisional decision is that this situation  could have been  resolved by NRAM providing tailored 
correspondence to Mr W and explaining  its actions and more  pro-actively helping Mr W get access  
to its help going forward. Because of how NRAM has handled the end of the interest only 
concession, I think Mr W has ended up having access to no forbearance at all since  that time. I 
dont consider it was fair that the interest  only concession  was removed without greater 
consideration and action  around ongoing support. 
For this reason, I think its fair that NRAM reinstate the interest  only concession and forbearance 
on his Together  loan until two months  from the date of my final decision. This should  allow  Mr W to 
reach an agreement  with his current lender about what  should happen with the payment of this 
mortgage going forward. 
My intention is to put Mr W back in the position  he would have been in if a meaningful  discussion 
about financial support had happened  in March/April 2019.  NRAM will need to contact the new 
lender and seek to make  appropriate arrangements to give effect to my decision.  If NRAM is 
unable to carry out my direction as Ive set out in this decision, it should  suggest what  other 
redress it can offer that gets Mr W to the same  or better position.
Ref: DRN64710314This situation caused a great  deal of upset to Mr W at what  is already a difficult  time for him. I think 
NRAM should pay Mr W £500  for the trouble  and upset caused to him by its actions and lack of 
sensitivity to his situation. 
other issues with the mortgage account
There have been  other  problems  with this mortgage,  and its administration, that seem  to have 
complicated things  further. Mr W has fallen behind with service  charge payments. Following a 
county court judgment, NRAM has stepped in and made payments of around  £2,000  for service  
charges. These have  now been  added to the mortgage. I dont think  its unreasonable in the 
circumstances of this case that NRAM made those payments to protect its security. This means 
there are additional amounts now owed to NRAM which Mr W will need  to arrange to repay.
NRAM has made mistakes with the management  of the mortgage account. Our investigator 
identified that the amount of Mr Ws contractual monthly repayments was incorrect  whilst reviewing 
this complaint. NRAM has accepted and corrected this. It has offered £100  for the trouble  and 
upset caused  to Mr W. Theres  also been an instance when Mr W had called NRAM and didnt 
pass security  checks when  he should have. NRAM has explained this didnt prevent  Mr W from 
being able to make a payment to his mortgage  but its poor service nonetheless.
In recognition of the administrative errors  made to the account I agree with our investigator that the 
offer of £100 compensation is reasonable to settle that matter. 
responses to my provisional  decision
NRAM replied to say that it agreed  to pay Mr W the compensation  and would carry out the 
next steps as set out in my provisional  decision.
Mr W also responded. In summary,  Mr W said he cant agree with my provisional  decision 
because he doesnt  think all the evidence has been taken into account and NRAM is lying to 
cover up their tracks.  
Mr W has asked  why I havent  referred to the Support for Mortgage  Interest (SMI)  Payments 
that have been made  to the mortgage each month by the Department of Work and Pensions.  
Hes also said,  in summary that he disagrees with the outcome reached  by the Courts in 
terms of the service charge payments and he feels ignored by the courts  and cant  afford  
legal representation.
Mr W says hes always been honest that his employment and pension  tribunal will take years  
to complete and the May 2018 court date was only a preliminary hearing. And Mr W says he 
feels ignored by the Pensions Ombudsman  and that he thinks his case with them is now 
closed.
Mr W is concerned  that his new lender is continuing  to treat him in much the same way as 
NRAM. Hed like the concession I had previously directed to continue until such  time as his 
case with his former employer is over.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and further arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive carefully 
Ref: DRN64710315considered his further arguments and concerns. Im sensitive to Mr Ws situation  and the 
number of separate disputes that he has running in parallel about different  issues.  Ive 
acknowledged what a difficult  time this is for Mr W and I have  taken the wider circumstances 
into account when  making my findings.  
Mr W is unhappy with judgments  made  in court  and disputes hes escalated to other  bodies.  
Im unable to comment on these matters. If Mr W is still unsure about what other support 
might be available  to help him our investigator  can pass on the details  of different 
organisations that might be able to help Mr W decide what  steps  he might take next.
Having thought about the further  comments made, I dont think there is a reason to change  
my earlier findings. This final decision confirms  the findings I made  in my provisional 
decision. 
NRAM has agreed to reinstate the interest  only concession  and forbearance on Mr Ws Together 
loan from March /April  2019 until two months  from the date of my final decision. The intention of 
this arrangement is to give Mr W the opportunity to reach  an agreement with his current  lender 
about what should happen with the payment of this mortgage going forward. Mr W should use this 
opportunity to try to work with his new lender and try to reach  an agreement about  paying his 
mortgage in the future.
Mr W has queried whether the money  thats been  paid by the DWP  towards the mortgage affects 
the outcome of this complaint. I dont see that it does.  That payment of SMI is a contribution 
towards Mr Ws monthly interest payment. Whether the payment of interest comes from Mr W, the 
DWP or a combination of both sources has no impact on the conduct of the account or this 
complaint.  
NRAM will need to contact the new lender and seek to make  appropriate arrangements to carry 
out the reworking of Mr Ws mortgage.  NRAM  hasnt  given any indication that it wont be able to 
carry out this direction.  NRAM should  also make sure these changes are reflected on Mr Ws credit 
file.
NRAM will also pay Mr W £600  for the trouble  and upset caused by its actions and lack of 
sensitivity to Mr Ws situation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NRAM Limited. To settle the matter, I 
direct NRAM  Limited to do the following:
-Arrange with the new lender to rework  Mr Ws mortgage as if the interest only 
concession and forbearance on his Together loan had been in place from March/April 
2019 until two months  after the date of my final decision; 
-make  sure that Mr Ws credit file reflects this reworked position; and
-Pay Mr W £600 for the trouble and upset its actions have caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Ref: DRN64710316Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6471031