K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his credit card.  Mr M has told us that he wasnt aware the policy was 
optional. I dont know for certain  what was said at the time Mr M applied for his card and PPI, 
but Halifax has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. The option to take PPI was 
selected before the application form was printed.  Mr M also signed  the application form in 
acceptance of the selections made  on it. I would  have expected Mr M to have  raised any 
concerns he had about the policy if he hadnt decided to take it before signing in agreement 
with the selections made.  So I think Halifax made  it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember 
this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr M has told us that he was entitled  to some sick pay when he applied  for the PPI. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer. Based on what Ive 
seen of Mr Ms circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN64676462my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467646