K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited hasnt  paid a claim on his mobile  
phone insurance  policy. 
background
Mr S has a family  mobile phone insurance policy  provided through his bank account. He 
contacted Assurant to claim on the policy for his wifes lost phone.  Assurant asked for details 
of the claim. Mr S provided  a letter showing  proof of usage in his wifes  name,  who has a 
different surname to Mr S, in addition the address on the letter was different to Mr Ss too. 
Assurant found  that Mr Ss wife had tried claiming for the same phone  on her policy (that 
was also with Assurant) the day before  Mr S, but it had been declined. Because  of this 
Assurant asked Mr S some additional  questions to verify the claim and the reason for two 
addresses. Mr S said the questions asked were  inappropriate and he found  them  offensive.  
He said hed provided enough information to show he was married and in any event the 
policy covered partners phones not just spouses.  As Mr S was unhappy  with the questioning 
from Assurant,  he cancelled the claim and complained. 
Assurant reviewed Mr Ss complaint and partially  upheld  it. They  said as Mr S hadnt been 
able to evidence  his relationship, they were  satisfied theyd closed  the claim correctly. 
However, Assurant agreed two calls hadnt  been handled as they expected  and apologised. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Assurants response  brought his complaint here.  
Our Investigator  reviewed Mr Ss complaint and found the reason for the different address 
was because Mr S and his wife both lived at two properties. She also found the electoral 
register had since been updated to show Mr S and his wife living at the same address. She 
also found that Mr S had multiple pieces of information to show  him and his wife lived 
together. Because of the delay in paying  the claim  and the handling of the calls she 
recommended Assurant pay £150  for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Assurant disagreed, they said given the new information theyd now accepted  the claim and 
upon receipt of the excess theyd settle the claim. They also said £150 was too high and felt 
£100 was fair given  the content  of the calls.  
As Assurant  disagreed  the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant have now accepted Mr Ss claim subject to him paying the excess. I therefore wont 
go into it further here. If Mr S wishes  to continue with his claim, he will need to contact 
Assurant to do so and pay the excess in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.  
Ref: DRN61517172In regards to the delay  in paying the claim I can see Mr S cancelled  the claim six weeks after 
it was made.  Mr S said he cancelled the claim because of the way Assurant spoke with him 
during the claim. Assurant accepted the calls werent at the level they expect and offered 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. As Assurant agree the calls werent 
handled as they should be, I see no need to make a finding  on them. But I do need to 
consider the impact the calls have had on Mr S when making his claim and whether the 
£100 is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Mr S said because of the way he was treated in the calls with Assurant he cancelled  his 
claim and has now had several months without a phone. I can see he originally  put his claim 
in several months  ago. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Assurant to compensate  
him for the delay and the way the calls were  handled. But Im not satisfied £100 is enough. 
I say this because  Mr S has had the distress and inconvenience of the way Assurant 
handled the calls, and then because of this a delay in his claim. I understand it was his 
choice to cancel  the claim, but this was only done  because of the way Assurant dealt with 
his claim.  Im therefore satisfied Assurant should  compensate him for the delay in his claim 
too. Taking everything  into account  Im satisfied £150 is a fair and reasonable amount for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.   
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to deal with Mr Ss claim, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions and pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Assurant General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from this, it should tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr S a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6151717