K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) did not comply with leverage guidelines 
in her Contract for Differences (CFD) trading account, that its margin  call alerts 
unreasonably alarmed her into crystalizing  losses and that she was/is  dissatisfied with its 
trading platform software. 
The complaint is also about whether (or not) she was properly informed about the risks and 
leverage workings within the account  and about  her pursuit for recovery of losses  in the 
account  which she says was caused  by the complaint issues. Mrs B is represented by her 
husband, Mr B.
background
Plus500 disputes the complaint. In the main,  its position is that:
It offers an execution only platform service and this was clear  in the terms for the 
account, risk disclosure and user agreement documents that Mrs B agreed to. These 
documents informed  her about the risks and leveraging within the account.
Mrs B was given a warning that the account (and CFD trading)  was inappropriate for 
her. She acknowledged and elected  to waive the warning,  and to proceed with the 
opening of the account. She also acknowledged  the option of using a demo account.
Mrs B was obliged to inform herself about  the aspects of her trading, including risks 
and leveraging, and she was responsible for her trading  decisions.  
Its leverage settings were and are compliant with regulations  the restrictions  by the 
European Securities  and Markets Authority (ESMA) since 1 August 2018.
Notification alert settings could be amended within the account and it was Mrs Bs 
setting to request  the margin call alerts.
Based  on her account statement, it disputes  the amount of loss claimed by Mrs B.
In terms of the workings of its platform it affirms that it provides best execution,  as 
detailed in its Order  Execution  policy, and it invited Mrs B to raise any specific issues 
she might  have.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He broadly agreed with Plus500s position 
and concluded  that the complaint  should  not be upheld. Mr B disagreed, on Mrs Bs behalf, 
with this outcome  and repeated the assertion that the leverage exposure was unfair. He also 
said the level of her loss is as she claimed.  The matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness
Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
the client has sufficient  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
service or product offered  by the firm. 
A firm is obliged  to warn its client if the assessment concludes  that its service  or product is 
not appropriate  and its warning can be in a standardised  format.  If, despite the warning, 
the client wishes to proceed with the service or product the firm has discretion to do so  
Ref: DRN62648342having regard  to the circumstances. This is what happened in Mrs Bs case. Plus500 has 
shared evidence  which  shows Mrs Bs account number  of the inappropriateness warning 
issued to her, her acknowledgement  of it and her decision (with the word  yes)  to proceed 
with the account nevertheless. The declaration she consented to also acknowledged  
awareness of the demo account.  
Having issued the relevant warning and with Mrs B deciding to proceed  with the account 
nevertheless, Plus500 retained discretion to either turn down her application  because  of 
the warning  or to grant the account despite  the warning. It chose to do the latter.  Mrs B 
might or would argue that it should  not have done  so, but I disagree.  The regulators rules  
permitted it to exercise its discretion, after the warning,  to proceed with the opening of the 
account  having regard  to the circumstances. I am not persuaded that there were wider  
circumstances in her case which ought reasonably to have stopped  Plus500  from doing this.
Terms, Risk and Leverage
There is sufficient evidence to conclude that Mrs Bs agreement  with the terms and risk 
disclosures for the account shows her awareness of (and agreement  to) information about 
the execution  only service in the account,  about  her responsibility to be familiar with the 
aspects of trading  in the account,  about the risks in CFD trading and in the leverage aspect 
of such trading, about her responsibility to monitor and manage her account and about  her 
responsibility for the trading  and trading related  decisions  in the account.  I do not consider 
that any of these was misrepresented  or unknown to her.
Compliance with regulation
Evidence suggests that the leverage settings in Mrs Bs account  were  compliant with the 
ESMA restrictions for retail accounts.  It appears that her displeasure in this respect relates 
more to the argument that it was inappropriate for her to have been exposed to the leverage  
levels (and associated  risks) in the traded CFD positions. 
However, she was notified at the outset that the account and CFD trading was inappropriate 
for her. She chose to proceed nevertheless. Thereafter, and in the context  of the initial  
warning, the execution only nature of the service, the risk disclosures and her responsibility 
to manage her trading, it was her responsibility to monitor and manage her exposure to 
leverage related  risk. She also acknowledged  awareness of the demo account which,  it 
appears, could  have  been used to safely  test such risk.
Margin Calls
These existed for the benefit of customers with open  positions  which  were accumulating 
losses and creating an imminent risk of margin breach. I can understand why Mrs B says 
she was alarmed by them,  but they served to alert her to an imminent margin  breach 
problem(s) and to give her an opportunity to avoid it. Evidence suggests that they were also 
requested in the settings for her account,  so it would appear that she received them because 
she asked for them   and that, if she wished, she could have amended  the settings in order 
to stop receiving them.
The terms for the account made  it Mrs Bs responsibility to monitor its margin.  Upon a 
margin call she could have made payment  into the account in order to avoid  a margin  breach 
and in order to maintain  her open positions. Where she chose not to make such payment(s)  
Ref: DRN62648343and instead to close her trading positions  (at a loss), that was done at her discretion  and by 
her choice. I do not consider it reasonable to hold Plus500 responsible for that.
Trading Platform Software
The investigator noted the absence  of any specific example(s) of a detriment to Mrs Bs 
trading caused  by a problem with the platform. If she has such an example(s), he invited her 
to present it to Plus500 for its investigation. Evidence of such a specific example(s) does not 
appear to have been shared with this service, so Mrs Bs complaint about the trading 
platform software appears to be unsupported.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6264834