K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) didnt proactively inform  her she could upgrade 
her account  to earn a better return on her money.
background 
Mrs H has a Bank of Scotland Reward  current account  which was opened years  ago, when 
she and her husband lived in Scotland. Provided certain conditions were  met Reward  
customers receive a guaranteed amount each month  originally £5, then reduced  to £3 and 
lately £2.
Mrs H has discovered from an article  in a consumer magazine that BOS customers can 
apply for a Vantage add-on which pays 1.5%  on balances up to £5,000.  She thinks  BOS  
should have contacted her to let her know. BOS initially said Mrs H had chosen not to 
receive marketing literature, but she could find out about its products in branch or from the 
internet. 
Reward customers arent actually eligible for the Vantage  add-on,  so shed have to switch  to 
a Classic account and then apply for the add-on. BOS offered to do this for her but Mrs H 
wanted to see the product literature before making  a decision. She didnt think  shed ever 
been asked about her marketing preferences as it wasnt usual to do so when the account 
was opened. She doesnt use the internet and she now lives in the south of the UK where  
there are no BOS branches. So she relies on the bank to let her know about  any product 
changes which would  benefit her. 
Our investigator didnt  think BOS  had done  something wrong  by not telling Mrs H about 
Vantage. But since  the complaint had been with this service BOS accepted Mrs H hadnt 
opted out of marketing, she simply  had no contact preferences set. So it offered £50 to say 
sorry, which our investigator felt was fair.
Mrs H feels her many years as a loyal customer are being  overlooked, so she asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Let me explain why.
The Reward account is no longer available to BOS customers, and its monthly benefit has 
reduced over the years. So I see why Mrs H was interested in other accounts which would  
give her a better return. 
But Vantage  isnt available to all BOS customers.  Its only available as an add-on  to the 
Classic account, which Mrs H would have to switch to, if she wants to apply for Vantage. 
BOS records show  Mrs Hs account  was opened  in 1985. The original paperwork  isnt 
available, so she may have had an account with the bank prior to this. But she didnt 
originally open  a Reward account, as this was an HBOS product,  only available  following  the 
merger of BOS and Halifax (around  2001).  HBOS  has subsequently been absorbed into the 
Lloyd banking group.  BOS  says its had Mrs Hs current address on its systems since  2000,  
which suggests opening the Reward account  may have coincided  with her move  south.
Ref: DRN69656522BOS offered  to switch  Mrs Hs account (from Reward to Classic) so she could apply for 
Vantage. But she wanted  to read through some literature before making a decision. I think 
this is reasonable  as shed want to check she could meet the eligibility  criteria  and make  
sure shed benefit from changing.  Mrs H doesnt think BOS made it clear shed need to open 
a Classic account before she could apply  for Vantage. But I think this was implied when she 
was told shed need to switch her account. So while I think there  was some confusion 
about what Mrs H wanted to do, she wasnt entitled to the Vantage add-on without a Classic 
account. And I cant say BOS should  have switched  her account when shed said she didnt 
want to until shed received some  information. 
Its true Mrs H can no longer visit BOS  branches to find out about  new products. And she 
may not have realised  that Halifax and Lloyds  (which have branches in her area) are part of 
the same  overall  group. But I dont think this necessarily means shes  been  treated unfairly.  
I think Mrs H is probably right that she wasnt specifically asked about  marketing and contact 
preferences when she opened the account.  Checking  this is now common procedure, in line 
with changes to data protection legislation. Even when asked, many  consumers elect not to 
receive marketing material as they consider  it junk  mail.  BOS has now updated its records  
so Mrs H will receive marketing material going forwards. 
In any case, BOS say its unaware of any specific marketing campaign to Reward customers 
that Mrs H may have missed out on. So I dont  think BOS  was at fault by not alerting Mrs H 
to the Vantage add-on. Even if Mrs H had been  sent Vantage marketing material  shed still 
have needed to open a Classic account first. And she didnt want to do that without reading 
the product information. Consumers can find out about new products in a number of ways 
without the internet or visiting branches. Such as listings  in best  buy tables in the papers, 
and in consumer  magazines such as the one Mrs H reads. 
But BOS  shouldnt have  said it was Mrs Hs decision  to opt out of marketing material. So it 
should pay compensation for this and I think the £50 it offered is fair.
BOS has said Mrs H can still switch her Reward account to a Classic account to enable her 
to apply for the Vantage  add-on if she wishes. So l leave it to her to decide  if shed like to do 
that. But Im not going to ask it to do anything more. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mrs H £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6965652