K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with a 
mortgage in 1990 and a further advance in 1992. Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide Building 
Society, trading  at the time as Staffordshire Building Society (Nationwide),  mis-sold  them  
the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage in 1990  and at the same time took out a PPI policy.  Even 
though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr T was insured under the policy.  They  paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy.
In 1992 Mr and Mrs T took additional borrowing in the form of a further advance to their 
mortgage and they took out another PPI policy to cover this additional loan.  Again  this 
policy provided cover for Mr T only.
The policies covered Mr T for accident, sickness and unemployment. If he had made  a 
successful claim, the policies would have paid out the repayment benefit for up to 18 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Nationwide  made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember  this. Ive been  
given a copy of the PPI application forms for each of the sales  and I can see that these 
documents include information about the people  to be insured and the level of benefit that 
was required in the event of a claim.  On both forms only Mr T has been entered as the 
insured person and the level of benefit has been  entered. Both Mr and Mrs T have signed 
the forms which suggests they agreed  with everything that had been entered. If 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  want to take out the PPI they could have left the forms blank.
Mr and Mrs T have  told us the policies were  not offered  to them  as optional but they believed 
the insurance was a necessity and part of the mortgage. But the PPI application was 
separate to the mortgage forms so I think they would have known this was a separate  sale.  
And Ive noted  that they took out insurance  to cover  Mr T only,  so it would appear  that 
thought about what they needed and made a choice about who would  benefit  most from the 
cover. And from looking at the paperwork available I havent seen anything which suggests 
that the policy was compulsory  or that it would impact their application for the mortgage  or 
the further advance if they didnt take it.
Ref: DRN62784432So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Nationwide made  it clear  the policies 
were optional and that Mr and Mrs T agreed  to take them out, knowing they could refuse  
them if they didnt  want the cover.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if the cover 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they 
needed to decide for themselves if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out PPI for Mr T only - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time of 
both sales it doesnt  look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:
When the policies  were sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premiums) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premiums  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said - including what  they have said about 
not needing the PPI as they had secure  jobs with good employee  benefits and savings they 
could have used.  As Ive mentioned previously, Nationwide didnt  recommend  the policy to 
them  it was for Mr and Mrs T to decide  if the policy would be beneficial  to them based on 
what they knew of their personal situation. But, in any event, the policy would pay out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr T may have received and would have meant that they could 
protect any savings they may have had for another purpose or use them  to help pay for 
other essential living expenses.
Ive also noted  that Mr and Mrs T have  told us that they had family who could have  helped  
them meet their repayments  and their community would have supported them.  Whilst I 
appreciate that their family and friends  would have  wanted  to help, support from others cant  
always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to 
provide such financial  assistance. So these points  dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs T any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
Ref: DRN62784433*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6278443