K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her 
claim made under a legal expenses insurance  policy.
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers.
background
Mrs C has brought a wide range of issues about  DAS to our service, some of which  date 
back to 2010.  Our service  isnt able to consider all of these issues. Some  have been the 
subject of a previous final decision  and others  have been referred to us too late under the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) rules. Ive already  been  in contact with Mrs C and have 
explained which issues we wont  be considering and why. This decision is solely about the 
complaint points we can consider.
In January 2017 Mrs C made four claims to DAS. These all involved wanting to take action  
against legal  professionals whod  had previous involvement in legal action shed already 
taken under her policy. 
She wished  to take action against solicitors  firms  Ill call, M, L, W and F. At the same 
time she had another ongoing claim against another solicitors firm, R which was being  
handled by F. F had been appointed to handle this claim under the terms of the policy in 
2016. In June 2017 this claim was struck out by a judge on the grounds that proceedings 
had been issued against the wrong defendant.
DAS asked F about this and they confirmed  they had consulted the Law Society and been 
advised that the two legal firms in question had merged and R were the correct  defendant. 
They were  of the opinion that the judge had made an error in law and that there  were  
reasonable prospects of success at the Court of Appeal. But they did have concerns about 
the proportionality of the costs of doing  so  and they advised that Mrs C had dis-instructed  
them from the case.
Mrs C alleges  mal-administration, fraud  and delays by DAS and the solicitors appointed 
under her policy. DAS responded  to these issues in May 2018. In summary they highlighted 
that a senior member  of staff had been appointed to look into her concerns about DAS.  But 
as she had failed  to provide evidence to substantiate her claims, they wouldnt take any 
action. They offered to reconsider if she provided  evidence.
DAS explained  in relation  to the claim that was struck out at court, that they arent 
responsible for the legal advice given  and they arent responsible  for the outcome of the 
case. They went on to offer to progress her claims against M, L, W and F. But in order to do 
so they needed there  to be an assessment of the prospects of success.  They asked that 
Mrs C provide her own choice of solicitor  to enable this or to instruct  a panel firm to do so. 
They explained they were unable to take further  action  without  her instructions. 
Being unhappy with this Mrs C approached  our service. One of our investigators  didnt think  
DAS had acted  unfairly.  Mrs C doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
Ref: DRN62758592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. So Im not upholding it and wont  be asking 
DAS to do any more.  I know this is incredibly important to Mrs C, so Id like to explain why.
Mrs C has made considerable submissions  in bringing her complaint to our service.  And 
whilst I dont intent to respond in similar  detail, I have read everything shes sent in and 
taken it into consideration when  making my decision. So if there  is a particular piece  of 
evidence or point that I dont refer to in this decision, it isnt because  I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need  to reference it to explain my decision.  I hope 
Mrs C doesnt take this as a discourtesy;  its just a reflection of the informal  nature of our 
service. 
the case being struck out at court
I can understand why Mrs C was upset  when her case was struck out at court. But, as our 
investigator pointed  out, I can only consider the actions of the insurer, DAS in this instance. 
Im not able to comment on the actions of solicitors  and I can see our investigator  gave  the 
correct referral to the Legal Ombudsman  who may be able to assist.  
F were  appointed under  Mrs Cs policy with DAS to take action against  R. But this doesnt  
mean DAS are responsible for how they conduct  their litigation on a day to day basis.  I can 
see that when  the case  was struck out at court, DAS asked F about this. This is what Id 
expect them to do. DAS arent responsible for the outcome of Mrs Cs case at court or the 
legal services provided by F. And F being  funded by DAS under the policy  doesnt change  
this. 
Im also aware that since our investigator gave  his opinion  on Mrs Cs complaint she has 
raised a further  concern. She says around £3,000  is due to be paid to her by DAS in relation 
to the case that was struck out in court in June 2017. But I cant  see that Mrs C has raised 
this as a complaint to DAS. So it would be inappropriate for me to comment  on that point in 
this decision. 
the ongoing claims
I can see that DAS have offered to progress Mrs Cs claims against M, L, W and F providing 
she gives her instructions as to how to proceed; either through  directing them  to instruct a 
panel solicitor to assess her claim or by providing  the details of her own solicitor  to do so.  
I think this is reasonable.  It is a very common requirement that before a claim can be 
accepted, it must be assessed by a solicitor  to ensure all the conditions of cover under the 
policy are met. I dont think this is unfair. 
Im aware that Mrs C has made some contact with DAS in this regard. The ongoing handling 
of those cases isnt something that I will be commenting on. I dont think  DAS are at fault for 
awaiting instructions  from Mrs C. When  Mrs C provides instructions, I would expect DAS to 
progress the claims  in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
wider issues
Ref: DRN62758593Mrs C has made some  serious allegations  including fraud and corruption against DAS.  She 
alleges that DAS have colluded with others to decline her claims. I can see that DAS 
appointed a senior member of staff to investigate her concerns. He concluded that Mrs C 
hadnt provided evidence to substantiate her claims.  So he was unable to conclude theyd 
done anything  wrong. DAS also explained that if Mrs C were  to provide evidence,  they would 
look at things again. 
I think this is reasonable  and I dont think DAS need to do more unless provided with 
evidence upon  which they could base  some further investigation. Ive dont think Mrs C has 
been treated unfairly by DAS in this regard. And having carefully reviewed our file Ive also 
not seen any evidence to substantiate  the allegations she has made.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6275859