K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the way BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) 
assisted him when he was made redundant. 
background
Mr B acquired a brand new car for around  £38,000  under  a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMWFS in 2016. The agreement was set to run for four years  with monthly payments of 
around £650 and an optional final payment of around  £8,700. The agreement had an annual  
mileage limit of 35,000  because Mr B had a lengthy  commute to work. 
A couple of months after taking out the agreement, Mr B was made redundant. He contacted 
the dealership  and it went through his options for exiting the agreement,  including obtaining 
a settlement figure  from BMWFS. Mr B says the supplying dealership told him not to mention 
his change of circumstances to BMWFS.  
The supplying dealership offered to purchase the car back, which  would have left Mr B with 
a £5,000 shortfall. Mr B decided to carry on with agreement, and he asked BMWFS if he 
could reduce the annual  mileage limit  he didnt require  such a large limit because he no 
longer needed to travel far for work since being made redundant. BMWFS  told Mr B it wasnt 
possible to reduce the mileage limit. 
Mr B continued in the agreement until 2018 when he requested to voluntarily terminate (VT) 
it. He says remaining  in the agreement put a lot of strain on him and his family  financially 
and caused a significant amount of distress.  He says he had to take out further  credit  to 
maintain payments towards his agreement.  
Mr B complained because  he didnt  think  hed received enough assistance from BMWFS  
when he lost his job. BMWFS offered to reduce  Mr Bs liability  by £400,  which  meant hed 
paid 50% of his agreement. This meant  Mr B didnt have to pay anything  further  when he 
VTd the agreement.  
Mr B remained unhappy.  He said BMWFS could have done a lot more to help him when he 
was made  redundant. Hes unhappy it didnt offer to take the car back  without penalties 
given it was only two months, or it could have offered to lower  the mileage limit to 12,000 
which would have been more suitable. 
As things  couldnt  be resolved, Mr B brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. He looked at BMWFSs 
contact notes and couldnt see that it spoke to Mr B directly  until around 15 months  into the 
agreement. So our investigator  thought  that Mr B likely only spoke  to the dealership  when he 
was first made  redundant.  And our investigator pointed  out that we couldnt  hold BMWFS  
responsible for the dealerships advice after Mr B entered into the agreement. 
Our investigator noted that BMWFS wouldnt have let Mr B reapply for a different finance 
agreement, with a lower  mileage because he wasnt employed. He also noted that BMWFS 
would likely  not have  offered a payment plan on the £5,000 shortfall had Mr B accepted the 
supplying dealerships offer when he was made redundant. 
Ref: DRN65907552Taking everything into account,  our investigator didnt think  BMWFS  had done anything  
wrong contractually, but he thought it could have offered a bit more support to Mr B. He 
noted that BMWFS had waived £400  to allow Mr B to VT without further  liability. But he 
thought it should do a bit more. So he recommended it pay Mr B a further £200 to resolve 
the complaint.  
Mr B responded to say he didnt think the compensation was sufficient.  BMWFS responded 
to say that it had reviewed  the contact it had with Mr B, and it acknowledged it spoke to him 
in July 2017 because he was completing  a lower mileage than anticipated, but its records do 
not mention Mr B spoke about any financial difficulties. It says that if Mr B had done so, it 
would have discussed his options  with him. 
BMWFS also acknowledges it spoke to Mr B in November 2017  and May 2017 when he 
enquired about  VT but it says that it was not made aware of his change of circumstances 
until he raised a complaint. It says that it then looked  into Mr Bs options, but couldnt offer 
him a new contract  (with a lower  mileage limit) because  he was unemployed. It also looked 
into taking the car back from him and offered to cover the VT shortfall which it thinks  is a fair 
resolution. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint setting out:
Mr B used a regulated  hire purchase agreement with BMWFS to acquire the car.  Our 
service is able to consider  complaints  about these sorts of agreements. 
As a starting point,  I have to bear in mind that this complaint is against BMWFS. And 
BMWFS is a separate legal entity to the supplying dealer. I can fairly consider a complaint 
about the antecedent  negotiations carried out by the supplying dealer against BMWFS 
because section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 provides that it can be held liable for 
these negotiations. But I cant fairly  hold BMWFS  liable for the supplying dealers customer 
service after those negotiations were concluded. 
In Mr Bs case  hes told us the supplying  dealership  advised him not to let BMWFS  know that 
he was made redundant a few weeks after acquiring  the car. And from what  Ive seen from 
BMWFSs notes, the supplying dealership  simply  contacted it in March  2016 to request a 
settlement figure. 
So what  this means  for Mr Bs complaint is that I cant  hold BMWFS responsible for the 
advice the supplying dealership gave Mr B in March 2016. And I dont think  BMWFS acted 
unfairly in March 2016 seeing as it didnt know that Mr B had a change of circumstances. 
Mr B could take up his concerns with the supplying dealership directly. But I should  point out 
that if hes unhappy with its response, it may not be something  our service can look into if it 
is about customer service after the agreement was entered  into. 
Ive thought about the further  contact and whether BMWFS acted unfairly. Mr B was 
maintaining his monthly payments, so I dont think his payment behaviour would  have 
triggered any concerns  with BMWFS. 
The next contact  I can see in March 2017 is another settlement figure  provided  to the 
dealership. So, again, from what I can see, theres nothing that would have clearly indicated  
to BMWFS that there were  any issues,  or that Mr B was struggling to meet his repayments.  
Ref: DRN65907553Mr B did contact BMWFS  in July 2017 to enquire  about reducing his mileage limit and finding 
out a bit more  about VT. BMWFSs notes simply say that it told Mr B he could only increase 
the mileage limit on the account. Mr B says that he told BMWFS  he was in financial 
difficulties in 2017. The notes dont reflect this, and the call recording isnt available for me to 
review. So the evidence is slightly conflicting. On balance,  and based  on what  Ive seen, I 
dont think its more  likely than not Mr B let BMWFS  know that he was in financial difficulties. 
I think its more likely than not that BMWFSs notes wouldve reflected something had Mr B 
let it know he was in financial difficulties. Taking this into account, along with Mr Bs excellent  
payment record, I dont think BMWFS has made  a mistake by failing to pick up on financial 
difficulties. And given that I dont think it knew about  Mr Bs financial difficulties, I dont think 
its response to the request about  reducing the mileage limit was wrong  either. 
However, while I havent been able to listen to the actual  call, I have noted that BMWFSs  
call notes from July 2017 indicate that it told Mr B hed need to have paid off at least half the 
finance in order  to VT the agreement  which is incorrect. The relevant legislation says that 
Mr B can VT at any time before the final payment  falls due. So I think this is what  BMWFS 
should have told Mr B at that time. Its important BMWFS is on the front foot in these 
situations. However, its not clear what action Mr B would have taken had BMWFS  gave him 
the correct information. If hed elected  to VT the agreement he would  have still owed around 
£6,000 and he would have had to give the car back and arranged alternative  transport.  But 
this may have uncovered his financial difficulties and given BMWFS the opportunity to help 
alleviate the situation by coming to a suitable arrangement with him to repay  the debt at a 
reduced repayment, albeit with a likely  impact  on his credit  file. 
Mr B kept the car, regularly used it, and maintained his monthly payments. From reading the 
later call notes,  and from looking  at his previous behaviour, it looks like Mr B wanted to keep 
the car. So, while it looks like BMWFS  made an error, from what Ive seen,  I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence to show it actually caused Mr B any significant  detriment. 
Following on from the conversation in July 2017,  I can see that Mr B contacted BMWFS  in 
November 2017  to enquire about VT. Again, theres nothing to show that it was made aware 
of Mr Bs financial  circumstances or any financial difficulties. 
Mr B did, however, raise  a complaint with BMWFS in March 2018 and let it know  that he was 
unhappy with its support  when his circumstances changed. So its clear that BMWFS  was 
put on notice of Mr Bs situation at this point.  Mr B wanted to keep  the car but with lower 
payments. BMWFS and Mr B werent able to come  to this arrangement. But BMWFS  looked 
into his complaint and agreed to waive around £400  from the VT shortfall. This enabled Mr B 
to hand his car back without anything further  owing. 
Having thought about everything that Mr B has gone  through, I appreciate  this has been a 
very difficult time. But, whilst I sympathise with the situation, I need to consider if BMWFS  
has acted unfairly. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think theres  sufficient evidence  to show that BMWFS 
unfairly failed to pick up on Mr Bs financial difficulties or that its actions caused Mr B any 
significant detriment.  BMWFS has agreed  to reduce Mr Bs liability  by £400  a significant 
reduction. Overall,  I think this is fair in the circumstances, and Im not intending to ask it to do 
anything else. 
BMWFS didnt respond to the provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN65907554Mr B responded to say that he could provide a statement from witnesses to confirm  he 
spoke to BMWFS  about his financial difficulties in 2017. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Bs testimony,  and Ive thought about whether further 
statements would be useful. But I consider the conversations took place a long time ago, 
and I think the most relevant evidence for me to consider are the notes that were  taken  at 
the time of the calls. And there  simply isnt a sufficient indication  that BMWFS  were put on 
notice that Mr B was in financial difficulties. 
All things  considered, while  I sympathise  with the situation, for the reasons above, I dont 
think there is enough evidence to persuade me that BMWFS needs to take any further 
action. I think its offer to reduce Mr Bs liability by £400 is fair in all the circumstances. 
Therefore, Im not going  to depart  from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6590755