K822xcomplaint 
Mr W, Mr M and Mr B agreed to jointly purchase  a commercial property using their individual 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) schemes.  Curtis Banks Limited  (Curtis Banks)  was 
the operator of their SIPPs  and the administrator for HMRC purposes. 
Mr W, Mr M and Mr B complain about  the length  of time taken by Curtis Banks to complete 
the purchase. They also complain that they had to pay higher solicitors  fees than stated at 
the outset. 
Further they complain  that Curtis Banks:
 
misplaced  a tenancy deposit;
delayed producing a completion  statement; and 
delayed registering the purchase  at the Land Registry.
They say they have lost out financially as a result.
background 
Mr W, Mr M and Mr B agreed to jointly purchase  a property using their individual SIPPs  to 
fund the purchase. Their financial adviser contacted  Curtis Banks about the purchase. Mr W, 
Mr M and Mr B collectively completed  Curtis Banks property form and transfers were made 
from each of their SIPPs to cover the property purchase costs and fees.
The solicitors firm appointed to deal with the purchase was selected from the panel of 
solicitors suggested  by Curtis Banks.  
The property form completed  by these three consumers  showed  that the commercial  
property was being rented by another company.
The property application form was received at Curtis  Banks on 26 June 2017. Curtis Banks 
property team approved the application  on 3 July 2017, and instructions were sent to the 
panel solicitors selected,  Firm A, on 12 July 2017.
A welcome  pack was sent to Mr W, Mr M and Mr Bs financial adviser on 13 July 2017.  The 
pack gave estimated timescales for each step in the transaction.  Details  of the solicitors  
were included in the pack  and a Property  Guide  was also enclosed.
On 29 July 2017, Curtis Banks sent an email to the IFA with confirmation  from Firm A that it 
could act and included details of the fees involved.  Firm A asked Mr W, Mr M and Mr B for 
authority to proceed. The financial adviser wrote back on 7 August 2017 providing this 
authority. 
Firm A received the contract pack from the sellers  solicitor on 7 September 2017.
Curtis Banks chased Firm A for an update on 5 October 2017. Firm A confirmed  that the sale 
contract provided by the sellers solicitor  was not compliant. The contract provided by the 
sellers solicitors stipulated that the property was sold with vacant possession, whereas in 
fact there were tenants occupying the property.  
In early November 2017, there were further  email exchanges between Curtis Banks,
Ref: DRN61308782Firm A and the IFA, where Curtis Banks  provided the IFA with details of the outstanding
replies from the sellers  solicitors and asked for confirmation that the members were  happy
to proceed with the current contract.
On 23 November 2017, Firm A sent an email  confirming they were finding the seller
un-cooperative. This email was forwarded  to the IFA on the same day.
The email  said, in part: 
As you will be aware, one of the assumptions  in our fixed  fees schedule for Curtis Banks is 
that we have a reasonably cooperative and willing seller - this is not the case in this 
instance. Therefore,  this matter cannot  continue  to adhere to the standard  fixed  fee. The 
time on the clock is now in excess of £4,000 and the fixed fee was £1,700, I obviously do not 
propose to charge the full time on the clock, but would be irresponsible not to flag that this 
matter is not a normal transaction and that my fees will exceed  the fixed  fee stated as the 
scope of the work has changed. 
In early December 2017, there were email  conversations about building  insurance for the
property. Firm A confirmed that the sellers  solicitors had not met the requirements
needed to complete and therefore  it was unlikely that completion  would be achieved before
Christmas. They explained  the insurers had identified flood risks at the property.
On 10 January 2018, the IFA confirmed the members were happy with the contract  and the
completion date was set for 18 January 2018.
Following the completion, the existing tenants  moved out of the property on 27 April 2018.
The limited  company set up by Mr W, Mr M and Mr B took up occupancy of the premises on 
1 July 2018, their company paying  an annual rent to occupy the commercial  premises.
An email  was sent by Curtis Banks  to the solicitor  dealing with the tenancy  on                                 
26 April 2018. Curtis  Banks  subsequently realised the solicitors had been provided with 
some incorrect information.
Mr W, Mr M & Mr B first complained to Curtis Banks  about the delay and the increased 
solicitors costs. Curtis Banks didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr W, Mr M and Mr B later complained  to Curtis  Banks about the lost tenancy deposit, 
delayed registration  and delayed production of the completion statement. Curtis Banks 
upheld this complaint and gave each of them a refund of fees in the sum of £100.
One of our adjudicators looked  into these  complaints. She felt that Curtis Banks  had delayed  
instructing the solicitors  by 17 days. She concluded  that Firm A then sent confirmation  
accepting the instructions  on 29 July 2017, 12 working days later.
Our adjudicator concluded that Curtis Banks could not be held responsible for the further 
delays as these  arose  from the communications between the buyers and sellers solicitors. 
She noted that there had been a lack of updates  provided to the IFA, and the consumers, in 
the early part of the process.
The Legal  Instruction form sent by Firm A on 29 July 2017 recorded  the fees as:
Purchase £1200
Ref: DRN61308783Leasehold Aspect  £250
Declaration of trust £250
Disbursements £750
Total (including VAT and money on account) £2,790
[Disbursements are not fees, but expenses incurred.]
The email  sent on 23 November 2017, confirmed  the fee had exceeded the fees indicated  at 
the outset. This email  from Firm A was forwarded  on the same day to the consumers  
financial adviser by Curtis  Banks. Mr M acknowledged receipt  of this email.  
Our adjudicator was satisfied that Mr W, Mr M and Mr B were aware that the fees were  likely 
to be higher and had not raised any objections or concerns  in response to that email. Our 
adjudicator noted  that whilst  the fee charged  was higher than what was agreed at outset, it 
wasnt higher than the amount referred to in the email of 23 November 2017. She said the 
fee specified at outset  was only indicative,  not fixed.
The existing tenant at the time of the conveyance surrendered  their lease early, on 27 April 
2018. Curtis Banks agreed that it made  an error when sending  details of this to the solicitors. 
However, the adjudicator was satisfied this was later rectified and Curtis Banks had 
acknowledged the shortcomings  by upholding this aspect of the consumers complaint. The 
consumers had each  received a refund of £100 of fees. She felt this was a reasonable 
response in the circumstances, to acknowledge the inconvenience they experienced.
As regards  the completion statement and Land  Registry  registration, our adjudicator 
concluded that responsibility for both these  actions rested was with the solicitors that dealt 
with the purchase. 
The adjudicator found that Curtis  Banks had appointed Firm A, and were responsible for 
instructing Firm A, so the consumers could have reasonably expected Curtis Banks to take 
action as a matter of course, if needs  be. Whilst she said she couldnt fairly hold Curtis 
Banks entirely responsible, in her opinion there  had been a lack of full control on Curtis 
Banks part in liaising with the solicitors and keeping the consumers up to date.
She said that when  resolving complaints,  this service takes into account whether a 
consumer has lost out financially. It also takes into account the trouble and upset the 
consumer has been caused by the business shortcomings. 
It was the adjudicators view that the consumers  had not suffered any financial loss due to 
the delays caused by Curtis Banks. However, some  shortcomings in the service provided by 
Curtis Banks had caused the consumers  trouble  and upset. Therefore, she recommended  
the complaint  was partially upheld and that Curtis Banks paid the consumers a further  £100  
each for the trouble and upset caused.
Curtis Banks agreed  with adjudicators view. However, Mr B, Mr M and Mr W did not agree 
They said:  
The solicitors fee was fixed at the beginning.  The e-mail  received  advising on time 
spent was an indication of costs in relation to time spent only. It did not ask them  to 
confirm whether they were happy to pay the additional costs.  If they were  being 
asked, then they should have  been given the option to withdraw from the transaction.  
Ref: DRN61308784The onus was on the appointing party,  Curtis Banks,  to advise them  of the position 
and their options. 
They confirmed that they were a firm of professional property consultants. And it was 
purely down to their efforts, not Curtis  Banks who were paid a fee to oversee this 
purchase, that the transaction actually completed. 
The consumers asked  for the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman.
The adjudicator responded to the points raised, however, she didnt change  her opinion. She 
said the email of 27 November 2017,  indicated that fees clocked  up exceeded the fees 
agreed at the outset.  In her view this email  was clear in the information provided and it was 
forwarded on to the consumers financial adviser  the same  day.
She said Curtis Banks  was operating in the capacity as the SIPP provider and was not 
responsible for providing the consumers  with advice. She confirmed she could not hold 
Curtis Banks responsible for the fees charged  by the solicitors.
She agreed  that there  was a lack of control  on Curtis Banks part in liaising with the solicitors 
and keeping the consumers informed. She had partially upheld  the complaint and therefore  
had recommended Curtis Banks pay each member  some compensation to recognise their 
trouble and upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for much the same reasons.
The background and timeline of events has been set out in detail above, so I wont  repeat 
that here.
solicitors fees
I have looked  carefully  at the terms and conditions of the SIPP and have read Curtis  Banks  
Property Guide for SIPP and SSAS properties.
In the Property  Guide  it said this about fees:
Please note that all fees are subject to possible review, depending  on the exact nature of 
the service provided,  including  but not limited to transactions  of a more protracted/complex 
nature.
In the section about instructing a solicitor in the Property Guide it said:
Once you have decided to proceed with a property purchase and you have chosen which 
solicitor to use, we will formally  instruct the solicitor. We will be the solicitors  client  and all on 
going instructions  to the solicitor must come from us however we will ask that you are kept 
up-to-date with the progress of the transaction.
In its email of 27 November 2017,  Firm A advised  Curtis Banks that the transaction was 
more protracted  than envisaged  at the outset, so the standard fee arrangement  could no 
longer apply.
Ref: DRN61308785The fees on the clock as at 27 November 2017,  were already £4,000.  I understand 
completion didnt  take place  until 18 January 2018, so there was clearly further work done by 
the solicitors in between  times. One of the five options  presented  to the consumers within 
the solicitors email of 27 November 2017,  was to walk away from the deal.  They clearly 
chose not to do so. Had they done  so, its possible  their fees wouldve been limited  to the 
standard fees agreed at the outset.
 
But, by continuing  to proceed  with the purchase, and not querying  the extent of the further 
fees, I consider  that the consumers gave their tacit agreement to paying more than the 
standard fees agreed at the outset. 
As Curtis Banks was the client here, it wouldve been better if it had tried to clarify the 
amount of the further fees likely  to be involved. But, I cant see that the consumers have lost 
out financially  as a result of its failure to do so. They were clearly told there would be 
additional fees beyond the £1700+  VAT standard fees and its evident that they were  not 
charged for all the time worked. They were charged  £4,000 plus VAT.  The fees clocked up 
had already reached that level in November  2017. 
So, I dont make any award in relation to the solicitors fees.
overall delay
Looking at the correspondence between  Firm A and Curtis Banks it doesnt seem to me that 
Curtis Banks can be fairly  held responsible for this property transaction  not completing 
sooner. The reasons for the delays related primarily to issues relating  to the contractual 
arrangements. Our adjudicator has recommended that Curtis Bank pay Mr W, Mr M and 
Mr B £100  each for the initial delays. Curtis Banks has accepted  our adjudicators  view.  I 
consider that a fair and reasonable response.
tenancy deposit, Land Registry and completion statement issues
I agree  with our adjudicator in its capacity as Firm As client  in relation to this property 
transaction Curtis Banks  could have been  more pro-active in liaising with Firm A about these 
aspects. However, whilst it may have impacted on the level of service the consumers 
consider Curtis Banks provided them  with, I cant see that they lost out financially as a result  
of these shortcomings. Curtis Banks  has already refunded fees of £100 each and I consider 
that a fair response in the circumstances.
I therefore leave  Mr W, Mr M and Mr B to decide whether they each want  to accept the extra 
£100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I partially  uphold Mr W, Mr M and Mr Bs complaint against  
Cutis Banks  Limited.  I order  Curtis Banks Limited to pay Mr W, Mr M and Mr B £300 in total 
(£100 each) for their trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN61308786Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, Mr M and 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 7 June  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6130878