K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mrs T that she had a choice about it. 
Mrs T says it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional,  and that it was added 
without her knowledge. But she hasnt given us much  detail  about  what  happened  or what  
was said at the sale.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mrs Ts application  form for the credit card.  This included a 
section with a box to be crossed  to show whether Mrs T wanted to take out PPI. And there is 
a pre-printed cross in the box.
While the cross is pre-printed,  Mrs Ts details, including her name, address, date of birth and 
occupation, are also pre-printed. So I think its likely there was some conversation between 
Mrs T and Halifax before  the application  form was printed out. And, based  on the evidence 
Ive seen and what I understand  about Halifaxs sales process at the time, I think its likely  
PPI wouldve  been mentioned in this conversation. And that Halifax wouldve made  it clear  to 
Mrs T that she had a choice about it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs T, so it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been  entitled 
to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  she didnt need to rely on her family to make her 
repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Mrs T clear information  about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for 
Mrs T if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs T off taking it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs T paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs T back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs T now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN66756842my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6675684