K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that Legal & General Insurance Limited wont  honour the cash settlement 
it offered for her home insurance claim. Shes  also unhappy with the service she received.
background 
Miss S had a leak at her home. Legal  and General appointed one of its approved  contractors 
to dry the kitchen  and scope for the repairs. Drying  equipment was installed, and Miss S 
understood the drying process would take up to three weeks.
During that three-week period Miss S twice  e-mailed Legal and General with questions about 
the drying process and her living conditions, but she says a response  wasnt received. The 
claims manager later explained  he had been away for much of that three-week period  and 
apologised for the inconvenience caused.  He also explained the moisture  readings  had 
risen, so the contractors needed to remove plaster  to aid the drying. 
Miss S says she called the claims manager for an update about two to three weeks  after the 
plaster had been  stripped from the walls,  and she was told the contractors would call her. 
Miss S says she didnt  receive a call, so she emailed the claims manager. She says he 
replied a few days later and advised  the scope  of works was being prepared  by the 
contractors.
A few days  later the claims manager  and Miss S verbally discussed the scope of works and 
the cash settlement  offer. The offer was £4,696 less her £450 policy  excess. A further £939 
could be paid for VAT on receipt of VAT invoices from Miss S own tradesmen. The options 
were followed-up in an email  Miss S could either choose £4,696, or Legal and Generals 
approved contractor could do the repairs.
 
Miss S says later that same day, she called the claims  manager to accept the cash offer and 
she spoke to his colleague who confirmed the message would be passed on to him. Miss S 
also emailed the claims manager  and asked if there  was a plan of her kitchen that could be 
used to cross-reference the codes  on the scope. Miss S says this was because  she was 
concerned not all the damaged kitchen  units were included in the scope. Miss S sent a 
further email the next day which explained  she was still deciding  which  option  to take.
Miss S says during the next ten days she emailed the claims manager  on several occasions 
about the scope in respect of the missing units and labour costs, but a response  wasnt  
received. Miss S says during this period she took three days off work to attend  kitchen  
design fittings, and plasterers and kitchen fitters were booked based  on the £4,696 
settlement offer.
 
Eleven days after the settlement options had been  offered  to Miss S, she received an email 
from the claims manager which explained  the cash offer was incorrect. He explained that a 
mistake had been made and the correct  offer was £3,174. This included the two additional 
units which had now been added.
Ref: DRN68893622Miss S made a complaint  about how the claim had been handled and the reduced settlement 
offer. However, Legal and General wasnt willing to increase its offer. It said it didnt have a 
record of Miss S accepting  the first offer and it noted  she had ordered her kitchen after the 
revised offer was communicated to her  so, it didnt consider she had been financially 
disadvantaged by the mistake.  However, Miss S was offered £250  in recognition of the 
incorrect offer, and the delays and the lack of communication during the claim.
Miss S remained unhappy, so she referred  her complaint to this service. She made  the 
following points:
-She verbally accepted the original  cash settlement offer on the day it was made, and 
Legal and General  dont hold accurate records of her phone  calls.
-She took steps based on the original offer, and shes suffered  a financial loss as a 
result. She had to live in a damp and damaged kitchen for four months and borrow 
money to complete  the repairs.
-She experienced a similar issue with the company appointed for the damage to her 
door  she was verbally given  a settlement offer of £480, but when she called to 
accept the offer,  she was told it was £310.
-The scope omitted two kitchen units which needed to be replaced, rather  than 
refitted; and shes still not confident the updated scope includes these.
-The contractors attended her property unannounced on two occasions;  broke  a 
clock; and returned her house key in a loose envelope which  wasnt secure.
-She hasnt yet been reimbursed for the electricity consumption during the drying  
process.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He noted  the electricity  costs had 
since been reimbursed, and he explained the revised scope  included  replacing the two extra 
units. He also said he hadnt seen that Miss S had accepted the £4,696  offer, and he noted  
the email Miss S had sent the day after the offer was made which  explained she was still 
considering which option to take.  He didnt think Miss S had suffered a financial loss as a 
result of the incorrect offer. However, overall, he thought the compensation should be 
increased to £350  to reflect the upset caused  during the claim.
Legal and General accepted the increased compensation, but because Miss S disagreed 
with the outcome the matter has been passed  to me to decide.
Miss S made the following points:
-Miss S still wasnt satisfied that the two extra  kitchen units  had been included  in the 
revised scope as the contractor had not been  in touch with her directly  to discuss. 
-Miss S provided phone records to support she had called the claims manager back to 
accept the original offer, the same  day it was made.  She also explained her email the 
next day, about still deciding what option to take, was only in relation to hearing back 
about the two extra  units.
Ref: DRN68893623-The contractor had removed some of the plaster  from the kitchen to assist  the drying, 
but Miss S doesnt believe the scope  includes the plastering.  She received quotes  
from three different  plasterers and the cheapest price was £1,500.  The remaining 
plaster had to be stripped back,  and the walls had to be re-boarded  and plastered  
afresh. Due to the quoted costs she had to strip the kitchen back to the brickwork  
herself, with the help of her partner.
-After receiving the initial offer, and whilst waiting for it to be increased to account for 
the two extra  kitchen units,  Miss S obtained several kitchen quotes and booked in a 
plasterer. By the time the revised  offer was received,  she had already paid her 
plasterer a deposit and begun removing  kitchen units  so, she says she was 
committed to replacing the kitchen.
-Miss S paid her plasterer in cash, but he will corroborate  that works were  undertaken 
before the revised offer. She provided screenshots of text exchanges with three 
plasterers to show quotes were obtained before the revised offer,  and two 
appointments were  made with a kitchen  company.
-Due to the damage to the units and the state of the room after the drying,  Miss S had 
little faith her kitchen  could be successfully refitted;  so she budgeted  for a full kitchen 
replacement in strict accordance with the settlement figure first quoted to her. She 
explained she had only spent  £30 more.
-Miss S accepts she ordered  the replacement kitchen after the revised offer had been 
received, but she had already committed to replacing the entire kitchen. Due to the 
offer being  changed,  she and her partner  also had to complete much of the works  
themselves  using  only a fitter for the kitchen  worktops, a gas engineer  for the 
cooker, and a plasterer to re-board  and plaster.
-Miss S provided invoices for her replacement kitchen and plasterer; and a breakdown 
of her costs in terms of materials and tradesmen.  She noted she hadnt received any 
funds so far, and reiterated that she had to borrow money  to complete the repairs.
Legal and General has confirmed that, at the request of our investigator, it has since  paid 
Miss S the cash settlement of £3,174  less her £450  policy excess. It hadnt been paid 
previously as Miss S hadnt accepted the offer.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Im not persuaded it really  matters  whether  Miss S had formally accepted the £4,696  offer or 
not. Based on the details shes provided,  I accept she took some action and started planning  
in good faith that the offer would remain  and Im satisfied it was reasonable for her to do 
so.
Ref: DRN68893624However, although Miss S plasterer had been  paid a deposit and some strip-out works done 
by the time the correct offer was communicated,  Im not persuaded she had gone beyond 
the point of no return. Im more persuaded that Miss S could have held some discussions 
with Legal and General to ensure it put right the works that had already been undertaken 
beyond the scope, and covered the extra  costs  Miss S had now incurred. I havent seen     
that Miss S explored these options, before going  ahead with her original  plans.
I do acknowledge the situation would have  been  upsetting for Miss S, particularly as she had 
made plans  and budgeted  accordingly. But on balance, Im not persuaded I can reasonably 
decide Legal and General caused her a financial loss. I consider it likely Miss S chose to 
proceed with replacing her kitchen, knowing an option remained for Legal and Generals 
approved contractor to complete repairs.
Ive reviewed the revised scope and Im satisfied  that it includes replacing the two additional 
units  the amendments are clearly  shown. The scope also includes £929 for the plastering. 
Whilst this amount is less than the £1,500 Miss S was quoted privately, Legal and General 
was offering its approved contractor to do the repairs, so its only liable for the amount it 
would have been charged.
Having reviewed the original and the revised  scope, including the priced  versions, Im also 
satisfied that £3,174  is the correct amount. Ive also reviewed the documents  that Miss S 
provided to show her costs and I havent seen anything which shows the tradesmen she 
used charged VAT, so Im satisfied a further  payment isnt due on top of the £3,174.     
Miss S says she experienced a similar issue with the company Legal and General appointed 
to repair  her door. She says the cash settlement  was less than the amount initially  quoted to 
her. However, on balance, Im not persuaded Miss S was misled here. I say this because 
there isnt a complaint noted about this specific issue  at the time the cash settlement was 
agreed.
However, I accept there have been  several communication issues  and delays as outlined  by 
Miss S and accepted by Legal and General. I also acknowledge her frustrations in terms of 
the contractors attending  her home  unannounced, damaging a clock  (which they did pay 
for), and returning  her keys in an envelope.
But having  considered the above,  overall, Im persuaded that £350 is fair compensation for 
the upset and inconvenience caused during the claim  mainly  by the incorrect cash  
settlement offer for the kitchen, but also by the other issues Miss S raised.
my final decision
I appreciate Miss S will remain disappointed. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold  
this complaint in part. 
My final decision is Legal & General Insurance Limited should compensate Miss S £350.        
I make  no further award.
Ref: DRN68893625Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6889362