K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Sabre Insurance Company Limited has dealt with her claim on 
her car insurance policy. Among other  things,  she thinks she shouldve  been given a 
courtesy car after her car was written  off. And she also doesnt think the settlement amount 
shes been given  by Sabre is fair.
 
background
Mrs S was involved  in a road traffic  accident in 2016. The accident  wasnt her fault. Her car 
was written off and she says she suffered personal  injury.
Mrs S says Sabre left her high and dry after the accident. She says she was without a car 
for seven  months  because Sabre didnt give her a courtesy car, and she says she incurred 
many expenses. She doesnt think Sabre gave  her a fair valuation  on her car and she also 
doesnt think its fair it deducted  her excess of £200 from her settlement amount.
Mrs S is also unhappy about  how her claim for personal injury is being dealt with by the firm 
of solicitors whove been  instructed under her motor  legal  protection policy. The investigator 
who looked at Mrs Ss complaint explained to her that shell need to refer her complaint 
about the firms  conduct  to the Legal  Ombudsman  to see if it can look at it. It isnt something 
that we can look at as part of Mrs Ss complaint about how Sabre handled her claim on her 
car insurance policy.
Our investigator didnt  think Sabre  had handled  Mrs Ss claim unfairly. Mrs S disagrees and 
so her complaint  has come to me to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Turning first to the courtesy car. Mrs Ss car insurance policy  said a courtesy car would only 
be available if the damage to her car was repairable. And any courtesy  car would only have 
been available for as long as it took to repair her car (which is often quite a short time). 
But an engineer  said Mrs Ss car was beyond economic repair after the accident  so it 
wasnt repairable. And, under  the terms of her policy,  that means Mrs S wasnt  entitled  to a 
courtesy car. This is a standard term in most  car insurance policies and so, in the 
circumstances of this case (and although  I know Mrs S disagrees), I dont think  Sabre  was 
unfair or unreasonable in not giving her a courtesy car.
Turning next to Sabres valuation of Mrs Ss car. Mrs Ss policy said Sabre  had the option to 
settle her claim by repairing or replacing her car or paying in cash the amount  of the loss or 
damage. It said the maximum  amount payable was the market  value or the declared  value of 
the car, whichever is lower.
Ref: DRN69996742I should say my role in looking at this part of Mrs Ss complaint isnt to place a value on her 
car. Instead,  its to decide if the amount Sabre  gave her is within  a fair and reasonable 
range. We think the fairest way for an insurer to decide the market value for a car is to look 
at the main motor industry guides. We think these  are persuasive,  largely  because  their 
valuations are based on nationwide  research  and likely sales figures  rather  than, for 
example, advertised  prices. But we also accept there are fluctuations in the valuations these 
guides give, because  placing a value on a car isnt an exact science.
After Mrs Ss car was written off, Sabre had it inspected  by a third party  engineer. In his 
report, he said the car would cost more to repair than it was worth. Having looked at an 
industry guide and made adjustment for the low mileage on Mrs Ss car, he valued it at 
£1,400. Sabre subsequently  sent Mrs S a cheque for £1,200, having deducted her £200 
excess from the settlement amount.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Ss complaint  looked at the same  guide the engineer  
used, as well as others. Based on these, she thought Sabres valuation was fair.
 
I know Mrs S doesnt agree with our investigator. She says shed paid for some recent 
repairs to the car, which she couldve used for another  three years. But the terms of Mrs Ss 
policy dont require Sabre  to take these  things into account when giving a valuation. So I 
agree with our investigator that, by paying  a settlement amount that was in line with a 
valuation given by a third party engineer and with the valuations given by the main motor  
industry guides, Sabre  acted fairly  and reasonably and in line with the terms of Mrs Ss car 
insurance policy. 
Mrs S says she was left without a car for seven months. But I can see Sabre paid her the 
settlement amount soon after it got the engineers valuation, which was reasonably soon  
after the accident. So I dont think it did anything wrong here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6999674