K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Coutts  & Company (Coutts) didnt process their application to 
re-fix their mortgage and so they have lost the interest rate they wanted.
background
In January 2018 Coutts wrote to Mr and Mrs K to let them know  that their current  fixed  rate 
mortgage term was nearing maturity.  It offered  a number  of options and Mr and Mrs K chose 
a 10 year fixed interest at 2.99%. They say that they scanned  and emailed  the forms for the 
change to their account manager and sent the originals by post. Coutts says that it didnt 
receive the documents and the offer expired. Mr and Mrs K didnt realise that the mortgage 
hadnt been switched to the new fixed rate until they received  a letter  to say that their 
monthly repayments were  increasing.  They have now fixed their mortgage  for 10 years  at 
3.34% but ask that Coutts honour the original rate.
The adjudicator didnt think that Coutts had made a mistake. He accepted that Mr and Mrs K 
had sent some documentation  to their account manager  and that he forwarded it to the 
mortgage team. Following  this, the mortgage team sent out a mortgage  illustration directly to 
Mr and Mrs K, which they asked them to accept and return. Coutts didnt receive  this and he 
said that he couldnt hold Coutts  responsible  as it could  have  been  lost in the post.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said, in summary,  that if Coutts didnt receive the documents 
it should have  let them know. It has always chased them  on other matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ks frustration  in that their mortgage is now on a higher rate 
than they expected. They say that all the paperwork was scanned  and sent to their account 
manager, with the originals following  in the post. If Coutts didnt receive  the paperwork they 
would have expected it to contact them to say so.
I have carefully reviewed all thats  has happened. Coutts wrote to Mr and Mrs K in January  
2018 to let them know that their current fixed rate mortgage was due to end and offering 
alternative options. Mr and Mrs K chose  a 10 year fixed  rate product at 2.99%. On 9 
February 2018 they completed and signed the form and scanned and sent it to their account  
manager. He sent the electronic documents to the mortgage team. Coutts  also confirms that 
it received the original  copy of the signed  option letter.
On 13 February 2018 Coutts sent Mr and Mrs K a mortgage offer (illustration), setting  out all 
the terms and conditions relating to the 10 year fixed rate mortgage Mr and Mrs K had 
chosen. This was sent directly from its mortgage team and so their account  manager didnt 
have any involvement  in this part of the process.  The illustration clearly stated that the offer 
was only valid for 14 days  and asked that the paperwork was signed  and returned  within  that 
time to secure the rate. As well as providing  Mr and Mrs K with a copy for their records, the 
letter set out that they would receive  a new mortgage number, a closing statement and a 
certificate of interest paid when their mortgage switched across.
Ref: DRN64211022Mr and Mrs K say that they posted  the documents to Coutts but didnt keep copies. Coutts 
says that it didnt receive the signed  acceptance  of its mortgage offer so when Mr and Mrs 
Ks fixed term ended  in early April 2018 their mortgage reverted to its variable rate. Whilst I 
cant say for certain what happened to the paperwork, I think possible that it may have been  
lost in the post and I cant fairly  hold Coutts  responsible for this. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs K might  not have realised  that Coutts hadnt received  the 
documents and they feel Coutts  should  have chased them  for it. Coutts has said that it isnt 
its policy to chase for documentation  because  a customer may have decided on a different 
course or could have  secured a better  rate elsewhere. I think Mr and Mrs K might  have 
contacted Coutts  when  they didnt receive  any confirmation that Coutts had received the 
mortgage acceptance documents. Furthermore, I consider they might have realised that their 
instructions hadnt  been acted upon when  they didnt receive a closing statement and new 
mortgage number  on maturity of the existing mortgage and they might have followed this up 
with Coutts rather  sooner  than they have.
I know Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed,  but having given careful consideration to all that 
happened, I cant safely conclude that Coutts  made any mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6421102