K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about Somerset  Bridge Insurance Services Limited s (SBIS)  handling  of 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs B took out her policy  online  through a comparison website. This directed her to SBIS  
who were the broker of the policy she chose. The policy started on 1 November 2018. As 
broker SBISs role was to sell and help administer the policy. The policy  was underwritten by 
the insurer, who isnt a party to this complaint.
When she applied for the policy, Mrs B was asked how many  no claims bonus  (NCB)  years  
she had. Mrs B declared she had seven  years NCB. On 5 November 2018, SBIS asked Mrs 
B for proof of her NCB and other information. Its letter  warned that the policy  could be 
cancelled within 21 days if she didnt provide the required proof of her NCB. It also explained 
the charges would be applied in the event  the policy was cancelled,  namely  the cancellation 
fee, the direct debit  fee, and the charge for the time Mrs B was on cover.  It also said its 
broker fee was non-refundable.
SBIS chased Mrs B for a response on 16 November 2018,  reminding her that she needed to 
send in proof of her NCB.  It warned her that if it didnt receive proof  of NCB by 22 November 
2018, it would start the cancellation process.  it said if the policy  was cancelled, it would 
calculate any refund of premium that may be due. it also said the cancellation  fee was £35 if 
the policy was cancelled within 14 days of the start of the policy or £75 if the cancellation 
happened after 14 days.
SBIS didnt hear from Mrs B so it wrote  again on 23 November 2018, giving her notice that 
the policy would be cancelled on 29 November 2018. SBISs letter  detailed  the fees that it 
would charge her on the cancellation.  Mrs B responded the same day giving details of her 
NCB. But Mrs Bs NCB was already being  used on a different policy that was active. So 
SBIS told her she couldnt use that NCB and if she had proof of another NCB  that could be 
used, she should  provide  it. But on 27 November  2018, SBIS told Mrs B the insurer had 
decided to cancel  the policy because of the issue with her NCB. It said the policy would be 
cancelled on 4 December  2018. The cancellation charges were again  explained  in that letter.
Mrs B found  a new policy online where SBIS  was also the broker. But that policy was with a 
different insurer. That insurer  was prepared to offer Mrs B cover on the basis of her having 
zero NCB. Mrs B said she asked  SBIS  if she could  be transferred  to the new policy.  SBIS  
told her if she took out the new policy, they would  waive the £75 cancellation fee for the 
policy being cancelled,  but that she would still have to pay some fees. 
Mrs B complained as she didnt think this was fair. She said she felt SBIS  wasnt listening to 
her. She told it she didnt  want  the policy cancelled but instead to be transferred to the new 
policy she had found. She had also suggested that instead SBIS could  amend  her policy  to 
show she had zero NCB years and adjust the price  of the premium accordingly. SBIS said 
that wasnt possible and explained the underwriter wouldnt  let it reduce the NCB to zero and 
adjust the policy,  so it had to be cancelled  from 4 December 2018 with some fees to pay 
which it detailed. Mrs B thought this wasnt fair given it wasnt her decision to cancel  the 
policy.
Ref: DRN60489062On the cancellation of her policy, SBIS said Mrs B owed £275.67. It said she was being 
£68.56 by the insurer for 33 days of insurance cover from 1 November 2018 to 4 December 
2018. There was a £75.00  cancellation fee charged by SBIS along with a broker fee of 
£175.41 broker fee. And lastly there  was £50.00  direct debit set up fee.
The total charges were  £368.97. But as Mrs B had paid a £93.30 deposit, the balance on 
cancellation was £275.67. Mrs B and SBIS agreed  a payment plan for her to pay off the 
balance in four instalments. Although Mrs B had accepted the payment plan, she later told 
us she only did so because she felt she had no other choice.
Consequently SBIS didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said the decision to cancel  the policy 
was made  by the insurer and if she remained unhappy she should  raise a complaint  with the 
insurer. 
As Mrs B remained dissatisfied,  she brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the 
view that SBIS didnt  cooperate with our investigation and didnt provide all the information 
we had asked  it for. He thought consequently  it hadnt shown it had treated Mrs B fairly.  
Whilst some  parts of Mrs B could only be made against the insurer/underwriter,  he felt SBIS 
should pay Mrs B £150 compensation. 
Mrs B agreed but SBIS didnt so Mrs Bs complaint has now been  passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October  2020  and said the following:
Mrs B complained about the following:
Her policy was cancelled because of the NCB issue.  Rather  than cancel the 
policy she believed her NCB could have been amended to zero and so her 
premium could have  been adjusted to reflect that.
She wasnt allowed  to transfer her policy to the new one she found  online  where  
that insurer was prepared to cover  her on the basis that she had zero NCB.
SBIS didnt listen to her from the beginning.
The fees she was charged on cancellation  were unreasonable. 
So I shall take each  one in turn.
cancellation of the policy
I consider that SBIS was correct in saying that if Mrs B was unhappy about her policy  
being cancelled,  she would need  to direct that element of her complaint to the insurer.  As 
a broker, SBIS were  acting as the insurers  agent  when dealing  with her cancellation,  
given the lack of NCB. It was the insurers decision to cancel  the policy not SBISs.  
Brokers generally have no authority to make  such decisions either and here that is the 
case.
Its clear to me that SBIS  has shown us in Mrs Bs case  that the insurer required the 
policy to be cancelled if there was no NCB proof.  Therefore  I dont consider SBIS has 
done anything  wrong in following the insurers instructions here. 
transferring to a new policy
Ref: DRN60489063Given the NCB issue, Mrs B found a new policy on a comparison website still with SBIS  
as the broker, but it was a different insurer. This insurer  offered Mrs B cover  on the basis 
that she had zero NCB. Consequently Mrs B asked SBIS if she could  be transferred 
over to this new policy.
Given SBIS were the broker for both policies, it told Mrs B that if she wanted to take out 
the new policy she could  do so, and it would waive their £75.00  cancellation fee for the 
current policy. But it explained  that Mrs B would still have to pay the other fees. Mrs B 
didnt think that was fair.
So I consider SBIS  did try and accommodate Mrs Bs request. However  it couldnt  do 
anything about  the fact the initial insurer required the policy to be cancelled. And 
therefore theres no reason for it to be held responsible for this..
SBISs service and not listening to Mrs B
Mrs B was encountering some difficult personal  circumstances at the time she took out 
this policy  with SBIS. But when she took out the policy  SBIS asked her for further 
information which is standard  insurance  industry practice. So I dont find this unusual.  It 
asked her for proof  of the NCB she declared she had and for details  of her named 
drivers. I do consider it gave her adequate  notice  and appropriately chased her for a 
response.
However it wasnt until 23 November 2018,  after a number of requests, that Mrs B 
responded. She accepted  she was late in responding to SBIS, but she said that was due 
to her personal circumstances. I think thats understandable. However I dont think SBIS 
did anything wrong  by sending her reminders  about  providing the information they 
needed and warning the policy could  be cancelled. And when it became clear  on 23 
November 2018  that Mrs B couldnt use her NCB as that was being  used on another car, 
SBIS asked  her if she had any other  NCB she could use. But she didnt. And soon after, 
the policy was cancelled on 4 December 2018. During that time there  was discussion 
between Mrs B and SBIS  about the possibility of Mrs B taking out a new policy with 
another insurer. And as SBIS were also the broker for that new policy, it offered to waive 
the cancellation fee. And once the policy cancelled, SBIS offered an affordable  payment 
plan to help Mrs B pay the outstanding  balance.
So, I consider SBIS  did try and accommodate Mrs B once  it was aware she had no NCB  
and that her insurer wished for the policy to be cancelled subsequently. So I believe it 
tried to be helpful. 
SBIS couldnt stop her policy being  cancelled due to the lack of the NCB so I do think its 
offer to accommodate  Mrs B given these circumstances was reasonable.
the fees charged on cancellation
Mrs B was charged £68.56 for 33 days of insurance cover from 1 November  2018  to 4 
December 2018.  Th is a charge made by the insurer and not SBIS . If Mrs B is unhappy 
with that amount, she will have to raise that with the insurer,  as SBIS  werent responsible 
for it.
The charges  SBIS are responsible for are:
Ref: DRN60489064£75.00 cancellation fee. 
£175.41 broker fee. 
£50.00 direct debit  set up fee.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of the agreement between Mrs B and SBIS  which 
were provided to her when she took out the policy. They clearly explain that NCB can 
only be used if not already  being used on another policy.
The terms and conditions  go onto explain  in appropriate detail SBISs charges and 
cancellation process. The charges are explained  clearly when a policy  is cancelled  within  
14 days of the start of the policy (the cooling off period) and when cancelled after 14 
days. Had Mrs B cancelled within 14 days she would have only been charged the broker  
fee on a pro-rata  basis, not the full £175.41  fee. The cancellation fee would have been 
£35.00 not £75.00, and the direct debit fee would have been  £5.00 and not £50.00.  But 
that didnt happen as the policy wasnt cancelled until over a month after the policy 
started.
I consider these terms and fees were adequately explained upfront at the time Mrs B 
took out the policy and later in SBISs letter to Mrs B about her NCB proof warning her of 
the fact her policy could  be cancelled. 
Mrs B said it wasnt her choice to cancel the policy, so the fees are unfair.  But I think 
given the terms  and conditions were clear  that she couldnt use the NCB  she declared as 
were the cancellation charges, she could have  cancelled  and avoided the full fees. But 
she didnt.
We think its reasonable for a broker to charge admin fees and to receive  a broker  fee. 
But we do look to see if those fees are reasonable and that they were brought to the 
consumers attention. In Mrs Bs case,  I think SBISs fees were  reasonable and they 
were brought to her attention before she took out her policy.  They were further brought to 
her attention given  the issue with her NCB too. So I dont consider SBIS did anything  
wrong in charging  these  fees.
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed with my provisional decision,  however it wasnt  
SBISs decision her policy had to be cancelled  that decision rests with the insurer so I 
dont hold SBIS responsible for it.
Neither party responded to my decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to the provisional decision I see no reasons to change my view 
that this complaint shouldnt be upheld for the reasons I explained  above.
Ref: DRN60489065my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6048906