K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about advice he says he was given by Mr D P of Picton Jones Independent  
Financial Services (PJ) to switch his personal  pension to a SIPP  and then invest in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).  This was the Maroccana Fund. Mr F 
says this advice  was unsuitable for him. Mr P was a Registered Individual of Positive  
Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited (PSL), now Quilter Financial Planning Solutions 
Limited, at the time and so Mr F believes PSL is responsible for the advice. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2019. A copy  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the decision  I explained why I believed this complaint would fall within  
my jurisdiction. I also set out why I believed the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr F made no further submissions.
PSL said that it did not accept my provisional decision. I have read its response in full but, in 
summary, it said:
I should not issue a final decision in this case as PSL is challenging a similar decision 
in a different case. This case  should  be delayed until that judicial  review  challenge 
has been concluded.
The provisional decision is irrational, makes  findings for which  there is no evidence  
and also fails to take into account  relevant evidence. The provisional decision was 
arrived at in a procedurally unfair  way as no oral hearing was held and/or made a 
determination on a case which any rational  decision maker would have concluded  
was not suitable for determination  by an ombudsman  and should have been left to a 
Court.  
The ombudsman can only have jurisdiction if PSL is liable for the acts or omissions 
about which Mr F complains and the ombudsman has to take account of the law 
when making that finding.  
It considers my provisional conclusions on jurisdiction are wrong as a matter of law, 
both in the matter  of what the law is and how it applies to the facts of this complaint. 
As to the latter I have  made findings  for which there is no evidence and/or which no 
rational decision  maker could have made. 
As the law in respect of the matters considered in this complaint is evolving and 
difficult the only rational decision the ombudsman could have come to would  be to 
decline jurisdiction and leave  the matter to the Court.  
Even if the ombudsman had jurisdiction, he could not fairly determine the complaint 
without holding an oral hearing.  This is because reliance cannot be fairly determined 
without it. The decision not to hold such a hearing is irrational. 
As to vicarious liability, the Cox case quoted in the provisional decision is not 
applicable in the context of principal and agent  as confirmed in Cox itself and 
Winter v Hickley Mint [2019] and Anderson v Sense.
Ref: DRN62827652Even if Cox is applicable the only rational conclusion  is that the adviser (Mr P) was 
acting on his own, separate  to PSL and PSL had no connection with his acts.  This is 
because commission was not paid to PSL, no records of the investment were  
generated at PSL, the investment transaction was unknown  to PSL and there was no 
reason it should  have  known about  it. 
Therefore it cannot be rationally  concluded,  applying the correct law, that there was 
vicarious liability. 
Mr P was an agent of PSL for authorised  purposes and the adviser  was not an 
employee of, or a partner of, PSL. So the only potential relationship capable of giving 
rise to vicarious liability is an agency  one. 
This is not an area in which the law has been  authoritively set out. It is a developing 
area where the ombudsman has formed an opinion  of the law - it is not fair to the 
parties for the ombudsman to consider it. The issues involved in this complaint are 
not best determined by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached  the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
of 11 December 2019 and would refer the parties  to it. In brief, in that provisional decision I 
set out my findings  that:
Mr F had complained in time, within the three  year time limit allowed under the DISP 
Rules. 
Mr Fs complaint is about an act or omission  in relation to carrying  on regulated 
activities, which Mr P carried  out for Mr F. 
The evidence indicated it was Mr P who undertook those regulated  activities  - it was 
Mr P who gave  the material advice to switch the pension and make the investment 
and facilitated  it.
The advice Mr P gave  fell within the express  authority conferred by PSL.
PSL represented to Mr F that Mr P had authority  to conduct business  of the same 
type as the business  he did conduct.  And Mr F relied on those representations. 
Apparent authority  therefore operated and PSL is responsible for the acts Mr F 
complains about.
In addition, PSL is vicariously liable for the investment advice Mr P gave to Mr F. 
Although Mr P was not an employee  of PSL,  he was an approved  person with 
responsibility for carrying on PSL business  of advising its customers  and arranging  
the investments  recommended.  As such he carried on activities as an integral part of 
PSLs business and had a sufficiently close relationship to PSL for vicarious liability 
to arise. Mr Ps advice was so closely connected  to PSLs business  activities that 
PSL is liable  for it.
Ref: DRN62827653PSL is also liable to Mr F under section 150 of the Financial Services  and Markets  
Act 2000.
Mr Fs complaint therefore falls within my jurisdiction.
Mr Ps advice  was unsuitable for Mr F.
Mr F acted on the advice and suffered loss as a result of it.
It is fair and reasonable for PSL to compensate Mr F for that loss.
PSL says I should  wait to decide  this complaint  until after its judicial review challenge to a 
decision on a similar case has been resolved. I do not agree that it is appropriate to put this 
complaint on hold. While PSL argues that I have made the same  mistakes of law as it alleges in 
another case, as I will explain  below, I am not persuaded that I have made  mistakes  of law and 
each case does turn on its own particular facts.  I would also note that PSL has been  given 
sufficient time to make whatever submissions  it wanted to make  and so I am satisfied that it has 
had a fair opportunity to put its case.  
actual authority
I discussed in the provisional decision my view that Mr P did have PSLs express authority to 
arrange the SIPP for Mr F. However, on reflection I believe that Mr P may not have had such  
authority because he did not abide  by PSLs prescribed  process in carrying out the regulated  
activity  such as routing  such applications through PSL.  
Having said that, as I set out in the provisional decision, there is also the matter  of apparent  
authority, vicarious  liability and s150 of FSMA. 
apparent authority
PSL says my provisional decision contains,  or is based on, errors of law. It has not said what 
errors it thinks  I have made  in relation to apparent authority, only vicarious liability.  
However, although it has not specifically argued the point  in this complaint, PSL says the 
question is not whether  it gave Mr P authority to transact a general  class of acts.  The 
question is whether PSL gave Mr P authority in relation  to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But in addressing that, I believe I should consider whether PSL placed Mr P in a 
position which would objectively carry PSLs authority  for Mr P to conduct business of a type 
he did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent has 
authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into a contract, of a kind within  the scope of the 
apparent authority. And in Armagas , Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered case  
Ref: DRN62827654ostensible authority is general in character  arising  when the agent is placed  in a position  
generally regarded  as carrying, authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in question . 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director,  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that, the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  of 
acts. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I am satisfied that PSL represented to 
Mr F that Mr P had its authority to carry out the acts which an independent financial adviser 
would usually have  authority to do  including giving investment advice on behalf of PSL. 
PSL did not specifically mention the Maroccana investment in its representations,  but that is 
not determinative. Mr P had PSLs apparent authority to act on its behalf  in advising Mr F to 
switch/surrender existing  investments  (in this case a pension) so that an investment  could  be 
made in the Maroccana fund, because he had PSLs more  general apparent  authority  to act 
on its behalf in giving  him that kind of investment advice.
PSLs representations as to the authority of Mr P
The points made by PSL in other  cases are largely framed by its view that representations 
must be specific rather than general. I do not agree with that view.  
For example, PSL says in other  cases  procuring the advisers registration  with the FSA is not 
a representation to Mr F. The rules  require such registration just as they require, status  
disclosure, and that Jacobs J found  in Anderson v Sense that a status  disclosure could 
never be a representation  and the same  conclusion must apply to the register. However the 
judges finding was that on the particular facts of that case, the status disclosure, was  not a 
representation of any kind to the effect  that [the agent] was running  the [Ponzi] scheme with 
the authority of Sense or as the agent of the Defendant  (emphasis added).  Financial 
advisers are not usually  authorised to run schemes  and that is the context in which the 
finding was made. 
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding in 
Martin v Britannia  Life, by Jonathan  Parker  J on apparent authority based on the contents  of 
a business card. 
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr P to advise PSLs customers  about 
investments was part of the conduct  by which  PSL held him out to the world in general as 
authorised to do that. 
PSL has said if this amounts  to a representation it would make PSL liable for anything  said 
or done by Mr P relating  to anything which might broadly  amount to financial advice. PSL 
has separately said this is, an absurd proposition. But that is not what I said or implied  and 
the cases of Martin v Britannia  and Anderson v Sense show  how such  matters  can be 
applied (and limited) in practice.  
I do not say in this case there was a holding  out that everything Mr P might  do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to PSLs customers  such  as Mr F about 
their investments, this was the type of business he was held out as carrying on for it.  
Ref: DRN62827655It remains my finding that PSL did represent to Mr F through its conduct that Mr P had its 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying on the activities complained about.
reliance
PSL has not in its response disputed my finding on reliance. And my view is unchanged. 
This was a straightforward matter of a client  dealing  with their existing PSL adviser  because  
he was a PSL adviser  Mr F has made comment to that effect. He said he accepted it was a 
PSL adviser who was recommending changes that he justified. There is no evidence to 
show that Mr F knew or should  have known that Mr P was acting in any capacity other than 
a PSL adviser.  Mr F proceeded on the basis that Mr P was acting in every respect as the 
agent of PSL with authority from PSL so to act.
should PSL bear the loss caused by the pension switch and investment in the 
Maroccana fund?
 
My assessment as to whether PSL should  bear this loss was not intended to be read as part 
of the test for apparent  authority. It is a point the courts consider as a check that they have  
reached the right conclusion. I regard the test for apparent  authority  as being satisfied on the 
facts in this complaint. The reference to the justice of the case was by way of such  a cross 
check and was included  as the courts often  include  such  an explanation and to be helpful to 
the parties.
My views on this point  are unchanged   though  I should make it clear that my comment  
should be read as relating to the carrying on of the controlled function  in this case, i.e. to the 
circumstances of this complaint and Mr Fs losses from the advice he complains about - not 
all possible  losses in any possible circumstance.
vicarious liability
I have considered what PSL has said in its response  to the provisional  decision but I remain 
satisfied that PSL is vicariously liable for the acts Mr F complains about, for the reasons I gave 
in my provisional decision  though on re-reading my provisional decision I see a point I was 
trying to make was possibly not made as clearly as I would like. 
Under the heading the stage two test the first sentence in the second  bullet point says:
If PSL is not vicariously liable here, then Mr Ts ability  to obtain compensation 
would depend  on whether  the PSL Partner  he dealt with was an employee of 
PSL.
The above  does not really  help to introduce  the point I was trying  to make which is made in 
the rest of the paragraph - that in Cox the court suggested it would be unreasonable  and 
unfair for the claimants ability to receive compensation to depend on whether the relevant 
worker was an employee or not.  
Moving from that specific clarification to the issue more generally, I remain  of the view that the 
tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud are applicable.  Those decisions 
make it very clear  that non-employment relationships can give rise to vicarious  liability. 
The purpose of the guidance contained  in Cox is to define the criteria by which a non-
employment relationship can be judged as either  capable or incapable of giving rise to 
Ref: DRN62827656vicarious liability. In the present case, Mr Ps relationship with PSL satisfies  those criteria 
and had similarities to employment, as I explained  in my provisional decision. It would seem  
very odd if that were  to count for nothing just because he enjoyed  powers  of an agent  to 
contract business. Many employees are given  authority, as agent, to contract  business  on 
their employers behalf and Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (paragraph  1-004) says that 
the status of an agent will usually be either that of employee or independent  contractor. So 
it cannot have  been intended that the test in Cox is disapplied whenever there  is an agency. 
PSL says Lord Reed  made it clear  in Cox that the decision did not apply to principals  and 
agents. But that is not what Lord Reed actually said, which  was:
15.  Vicarious liability in tort is imposed upon a person  in respect  of the act or 
omission of another individual, because of his relationship with that individual,  and 
the connection between that relationship  and the act or omission in question.  
Leaving aside other areas of the law where  vicarious liability  can operate,  such  as 
partnership and agency (with  which this judgment is not concerned), the 
relationship is classically  one of employment,  and the connection is that the 
employee committed the act or omission in the course of his employment:  that is to 
say, within  the field of activities assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put it in Central 
Motors (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock Garage and Motor Co 1925 SC 796 , 802, or, 
adapting the words  of Diplock LJ in Ilkiw v Samuels [1963] 1 WLR 991 , 1004, in 
the course of his job, considered broadly. That aspect of vicarious liability is fully 
considered by Lord Toulson JSC in Mohamud  v Wm Morrison Supermarkets  plc 
[2016] AC 677.
16.  It has however  long been recognised that a relationship can give rise to 
vicarious liability even  in the absence  of a contract of employment
I think that Lord Reed  is recognising that aside from cases  where  vicarious liability is 
imposed because there is a relationship of, or having similar features to, employment (which  
the Cox case  considers), there exist categories of cases, such  as partnership and agency, 
where vicarious liability can be imposed on different bases  (which the Cox case  does  not 
consider). I dont think that he can be taken to have  said that no principal can ever be 
vicariously liable for an agent under Cox, even though their relationship fulfils  the Cox and 
Mohamud criteria for such liability. 
PSL have also referred  me to paragraph 63 of the Court of Appeal  decision in Winter v 
Hockley Mint. But it does  not address the point that the paragraph begins with the words:
The analysis did not identify or address the essential ingredients  of vicarious  
liability of a principal  for the deceit of his agent as required  by Armagas   
This is not a complaint about  deceit. There is no finding that PSL is vicariously liable for the 
deceit of its agent. The complaint is - and the finding made against PSL for which  it is liable 
is - that the advice  was negligent  and/or unsuitable and in breach  of statutory duty. 
I recognised in my provisional decision that Cox and Mohamud dont apply to torts of 
dishonesty, but I am not aware of any case which holds that they dont apply whenever the 
defendant has given the wrongdoer any authority  to act as its agent.  For the reasons I have 
given above I would  not expect the courts to arrive at such  a conclusion.  
Ref: DRN62827657I also want to make clear that I do not say that the fact PSL put Mr P in a position which 
gave him the opportunity to make  errors  is in itself sufficient to make  PSL vicariously liable 
for his conduct. But I am saying that, after taking the whole of the evidence  into account, I 
am satisfied  that PSL is vicariously  liable  for the actions of Mr P in this complaint.
I accept that Mr P gave  some advice to Mr F without  PSLs knowledge  or actual authority 
and that it did not receive payments for it. But I do not agree that he was advising in the 
context of a recognisably independent business using his separate  trading name as a 
separate business. It was clear he was acting  as a representative of PSL.
If Mr Ps conduct had been fraudulent,  then much of the case law I have quoted  in relation 
to vicarious liability  would not apply.  But there  is no finding of fraud.  And even if it was, or 
even if the test in Cox does not apply  for some other  reason,  PSL would still be responsible  
for the acts complained of by reason of apparent authority and statutory responsibility.
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
Taking everything into account,  I remain satisfied that section 150 FSMA provides an 
alternative route by which PSL is responsible. This is a statutory responsibility, and Im not 
persuaded that (if Im wrong about  apparent authority) the absence of actual or apparent 
authority would mean that responsibility  wouldnt arise under section 150 FSMA:
Section 150 FSMA is a consumer-protecting provision relating to regulatory rules  which  
were themselves created to protect consumers. Together they create a statutory right to 
damages for breaches of the Regulators  rules and this can apply even where theres  no 
relationship between the firm and the consumer, so I would not expect the absence of 
apparent authority  to be decisive.
Instead the way FSMA is framed  and has been interpreted by the Regulator  seems to 
analyse the question of a firms  responsibility  for its personnel/contractors  (if they arent 
appointed representatives)  according  to the question of whose business is being carried  
on  the principals or the individuals. This is essentially very similar to the Cox v 
Ministry of Justice  test. Its not done  according to the law of agency/apparent authority. 
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) is current Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
guidance which directly  addresses  the question of regulatory responsibility for an 
authorised persons  delegated activities. It deals  with the question  of whether a 
delegated activity is carried on for regulatory  purposes  by an employer/principal or by 
their employee/agent. It explains  that employees  and agents wont breach  the general  
prohibition if the employee/agent  is doing  no more than carrying  on the business of their 
employer/principal  as opposed to carrying on their own business. And it describes  
relevant factors  for deciding whose business is being carried  on (PERG 2.3.5-2.3.7).   
FSA rules  and now FCA rules  control  how firms carry on regulated and other activities,  
including delegated activities carried on by the firm. Deciding whether a firm has 
breached a rule (including for section 150 FSMA purposes) involves the same  question 
as the PERG guidance  whether it was the firm which  was carrying on the relevant 
activity as part of its business, as opposed  to a delegate carrying  on the activity  as part 
of its own business.
Ref: DRN62827658So the relevant  question under  section  150 FSMA is which partys business (i.e. PSLs 
or Mr Ps) was being carried on. That question  is similar  to the test in Cox v Ministry of 
Justice but it isnt limited by whether there was actual  or ostensible authority. 
To help understand the test, the FCA guidance explains how it applies, as an example, 
in the provision of home credit. This is a regulated business in which large firms  often 
deal with their customers through self-employed agents,  who call on customers at their 
homes to make  loans  and collect payments  on which  they earn commission.  PERG 
2.3.11 states:
Although the overall  relationship between a home collected credit  provider  (the 
principal firm) and a person providing the services(the  individual) will need to 
be taken into account, meeting  the following criteria is likely to mean  that the 
individual is carrying on the business  of the principal firm (as its agent) and not 
his own, meaning  that the individual does not require  authorisation or to be 
exempt:
(1)the principal firm appoints the individual as an agent;
(2)the individual only works for one principal firm;
(3)the principal firm has a permission from the FCA for every activity  the individual  
is carrying on for which the principal firm would need permission if it was carrying 
on the activity itself;
(4)the contract sets out effective measures for the principal firm to control the 
individual;
(6)the principal firm accepts full responsibility  for the conduct of the individual when 
the individual is acting on the principal  firms  behalf in the course of its business;  
and
(7)the individual makes clear to customers that it is representing a principal  firm as 
its agent and the name of that principal firm.
The relationship described in PERG  2.3.11  has a lot of similarities to the relationship 
between Mr P and PSL:
oPSL had appointed Mr P as an agent.
oThe FCA register  suggests Mr P wasnt an approved person or appointed 
representative for any other firm at the relevant time.
oPSL had permission for the activities  carried on by Mr P that needed  permission.
oThe agreement between PSL and Mr P set out a number of measures for PSL to 
control Mr P.
oClause 2.4 of the agreement between PSL and Mr P said:
Ref: DRN62827659The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations  of the 
Registered Individual  in the course  of carrying out the business of the Agency 
hereby created, or in the course of performance  of the duties hereby contracted
oIm satisfied Mr P caused Mr F to believe he was representing PSL through  his words 
and conduct as discussed in my provisional decision.
So, looking  at whose  business Mr P was carrying on in this case when  he dealt with Mr F, I 
still think it was PSLs business  and not his own. And I think my finding that PSL is liable 
under section 150 FSMA for the acts complained about is in line with how FSMA and the 
rules are intended to operate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that under section 150 FSMA, PSL is responsible for the 
acts complained of.
suitability of this complaint for determination  by an ombudsman
When Mr F referred  his complaint to the ombudsman  service, there wasnt  a provision  under 
the DISP Rules (in particular the dismissal provisions under DISP 3.3.4A (R)) that allowed 
an ombudsman to dismiss the complaint on the basis that it would  be better dealt with by a 
court. 
In any event I acknowledge  that PSL believes that it would be more  suitable for the subject 
matter of this complaint  to be dealt with by a court. But I do not agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and PSL is right to say that this particular 
complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason  why that prevents me from 
considering the matter.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. 
oral hearing
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly  determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the 
parties to take part in a hearing.
PSL hasnt requested a hearing as such in this complaint but it has said this complaint 
cannot be fairly determined without one. 
Ive therefore  thought  about this point in the specific circumstances  of this complaint and Im 
satisfied I can fairly  determine the matter without a hearing. In particular, I note:
Mr F was present  at the advice meetings and he has been  clear about what occurred. 
Furthermore there is a considerable  amount of evidence (set out in the attached  
provisional decision) about the involvement and actions of Mr P in the pension  switch 
and investment - which effectively corroborate what Mr F has said. Whilst the events 
Ref: DRN628276510complained of happened some time ago and memories inevitably fade Im satisfied, 
given the evidence, that I can reach a fair outcome using all the available  evidence and 
Im not persuaded hearing oral evidence would assist me.
PSL clearly believes Ive misunderstood  the law and it set out its position clearly in 
writing.
The Court of Appeal  has adopted a very flexible approach to whats fair in this context 
(Financial Ombudsman  Service v Heather Moor & Edgecomb  Ltd [2008] EWCA Civ 643).
my findings as to the merits of the complaint 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further  submissions on the merits of the complaint or the way I 
said things should  be put right. My view remains as set out in the attached  provisional 
decision.  
how to put things right
I set out in the attached  provisional decision why it was appropriate and fair for PSL to pay 
compensation in this case. And I also set out how compensation should  be calculated. But, 
to confirm:
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr F 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I think if this unsuitable  advice had not been  given then Mr F would have  kept his existing  
pension. But its unlikely  to be possible  for PSL to reinstate Mr F into his previous  pension 
scheme. Bearing that in mind what is set out below is in my view a fair way of compensating 
Mr F for the unsuitable  advice. 
The redress  calculation is set out on the basis that the Maroccana Fund may still exist. If it 
does not then the parties should let me know
In summary,  PSL should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Fs previous pension plan, as at the date of my 
Final Decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2. Obtain the transfer value, as at the date of my Final Decision, of Mr Fs SIPP, including 
any outstanding  charges.  
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
In addition, PSL should:
Ref: DRN6282765114.Pay any future fees owed by Mr F to the SIPP, for the next five years (this will only be 
necessary if Mr Fs investment in the Maroccana Fund still exists and cannot be encashed).
5.Pay Mr F £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Fs previous pension plan if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of my Final Decision.
PSL should ask Mr Fs former pension provider to calculate the notional transfer value that 
would have applied  as at the date of my Final Decision had he not transferred his pension 
but instead remained invested.  
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
PSL should assume that any contributions or withdrawals  that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my Final Decision of Mr Fs SIPP,  
including any outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PSL should pay it as a cash sum 
to Mr F. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PSL given  suitable advice I dont  think there  would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr F 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  This might be the case  if the 
Maroccana fund still exists and cannot  be encashed
Ideally, PSL should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr F back in the position he would have been in. But it is possible that 
the ownership of the Marocanna Fund cant be transferred. 
If it cant be transferred, to provide certainty to all parties, I think  its fair that PSL pays  Mr F 
an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the 
previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
Ref: DRN628276512This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be 
closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, PSL may ask Mr F to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Marocanna  investment in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party  as a result 
of the investment. That undertaking  should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive. PSL will need  to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it 
asks Mr F to provide an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded by this decision 
may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, PSL wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any 
future payments under the Marocanna investment, it must agree to pay any further  future 
SIPP fees. 
In addition, PSL is entitled to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr F of any claim Mr F 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension switch  and Marocanna 
investment. If PSL chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected  before 
payment of compensation is made. PSL must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr F 
for her consideration and agreement. 
5.Pay Mr F £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.
I believe Mr F has been caused significant upset  by the events this complaint relates to, and 
the apparent loss of pension benefits.  I think that a payment  of £500 is fair to compensate  for 
that upset.
If PSL doesnt pay the compensation within 28 days  of being informed that Mr F has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year on the fair compensation 
payable shall be paid from the date of my decision to the date of payment. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PSL deducts  income  tax from the interest  
it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. PSL should give Mr F a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision and the attached provisional decision, this complaint 
does fall within my jurisdiction.
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and order Quilter  Financial  Planning Solutions 
Limited to calculate  and pay compensation as set out above. 
Ref: DRN628276513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN628276514copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr F complains about advice he says he was given by Mr D P of Picton Jones Independent  
Financial Services (PJ) to switch his personal  pension to a SIPP  and then invest in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).  This was the Maroccana Fund. Mr F 
says this advice  was unsuitable for him. Mr P was a Registered Individual of Positive  
Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited (PSL) at the time and so Mr F believes PSL is 
responsible for the advice. 
background
Mr F met with Mr P in 2009. After he met with him Mr F switched a Pearl  Assurance personal  
pension to a SIPP. Shortly after most  of that pension value was invested in the Maroccana 
Fund. 
Mr F complained to PSL about the advice he says he was given by Mr P. PSL said it was not 
responsible. It had no knowledge of any such pension  switch or investment, had no records  
of that and did not receive any commission or fee in respect of it. It also said that Mr P did 
not give the advice to switch and invest,  another adviser did - a Mr R of Advanced Wealth  
Management Ltd (AWM). It also said Mr F was out of time to bring a complaint.
Mr F then brought his complaint  to this service. An investigator looked into the complaint but 
did not believe it would fall within our jurisdiction. He said that, in his view, the evidence 
indicated that AVM  gave  the advice.
Mr F did not agree and provided further  evidence of the role played  by Mr P. This did not 
change the investigators view and so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
 
my provisional findings - jurisdiction
We cant consider all complaints brought to this service. Before we can consider something, 
we need to check, by reference  to the Financial Conduct Authoritys  DISP  Rules  and the 
legislation from which those rules  are derived, whether the complaint is one we have the 
power to look at. In this case, PSL says that we dont  have  the power to look at this 
complaint on the basis that the complaint has been made too late and is out of time and it 
relates to acts PSL arent  responsible for. PSL says the advice was not given by PJ but by 
another business - so it is not responsible. 
time limits
The time limits for making a complaint are contained within the DISP  (Dispute  Resolution)  
Rules. The specific time limits that are relevant to this complaint  are contained in DISP 2.8:
The Ombudsman cannot consider  a complaint if the complainant  refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service : 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response or redress determination; or
(2)  more than:
Ref: DRN628276515 
(a)  six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)  three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred  the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some other record  of 
the complaint  having been  received;
The requirements that are particularly relevant here are that Mr F should have made his 
complaint within  six years  of the event complained of or three years from when he became 
aware, or ought  reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of is the advice Mr F says he was given to switch to the SIPP and 
then invest. This appears to have taken  place in May or June 2009. I understand that Mr F 
made his complaint to PSL on 1 September 2016. So the six year time limit has expired.
Consequently I have considered the three year limit. Mr F would need to have been aware, 
or ought to have  been aware,  he had cause for complaint (about the issues  he complains of 
now) more than three years prior to the date he complained to PSL, for this complaint to 
have been made too late.  
Broadly speaking, the complaint that has been  made is that the advice was unsuitable, the 
relevant rules and legislation  was not adhered to when promoting the investment to Mr F, 
that he should not have  been advised  to transfer to the SIPP  and that the highly  
speculative investment  was not suitable  for Mr F. It is said that Mr Fs risk tolerance was 
cautious and the investment was much higher risk than this. 
PSL say that Olive  Tree Property  International  Ltd went into liquidation in June 2012, which 
is more than three years before Mr F complained. It has also said losses  on the fund 
revealed by annual valuations more than three  years ago would have  put Mr F on notice of 
cause for complaint, or ought to have done. So he should have known there was a cause for 
complaint more than three years ago. 
Mr F is complaining about the switch to the SIPP and subsequent investment into the 
Maroccana Fund. He is not complaining about Olive Tree, which appears to be the 
investment provider and/or promoter or the Maroccana Fund. And, as I will discuss, Mr Fs 
investment was not liquidated or seemingly affected  by any liquidation of Olive  Tree. 
Although PSL has said that losses would have been  clear from annual valuations,  it seems 
to have said this without having  any such valuations.  Be that as it may,  annual valuations 
from 2010 to 2017  have  been obtained from the SIPP provider. They all record that the 
Maroccana fund had a similar  valuation to the original  investment (around £34,000). So the 
information Mr F was being  given  was that his investment still had full value. So there  would 
have been no reason  for him to question the advice he says he was given by virtue of the 
fund losing value  or the investment being, for example, liquidated. 
So I have  not seen evidence that Mr F should have been aware of the issues  he complains 
of now prior to 2016 and certainly  not prior to September 2013 (that being three years prior 
to September  2016).  I am therefore  persuaded he has made his complaint in time.   
the acts complained about
Ref: DRN628276516As discussed, PSL says the complaint relates to acts it isnt responsible for. PSL says the 
advice was not given by Mr P or PJ but by another business. 
DISP Rule 2.3.1R says the ombudsman service  can, consider a complaint under the 
Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates  to an act or omission by a firm in carrying onregulated 
activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection 
with them. 
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that, complaints about acts or omissions  include 
those in respect of activities for which the firmis responsible (including business of any 
appointed representative or agent  for which the firmhas accepted responsibility. 
So there are two points  to consider  in order to decide whether this complaint is one I can 
look at:
Were the acts about which Mr F complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity? 
Were those acts the acts of the authorised firm, (PSL)?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities) Order  2001 (the RAO), and the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook section of the FSA Handbook  (COBS).
regulated activities
An activity  is a regulated activity if it is an activity  of a specified kind that is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment of a specified kind,  unless otherwise specified 
(section 22, FSMA).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of 
buying or selling a particular investment which is a security or a relevant  investment (article 
53 RAO), and making  arrangements for another person  to buy or sell or subscribe for a 
security or relevant investment (article  25 RAO).  
the general prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or 
purport to do so, unless they are either  an authorised person or an exempt  person. 
This is known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about, PSL was an authorised  person (also  referred  to 
as a firm in the regulators rules). That means it could carry out regulated  activities  without 
being in breach of the general prohibition.
Mr P was neither an authorised person nor exempt  from authorisation. PJ was not a 
separate legal  entity  it was just a trading name  he used. That means that if Mr P had 
Ref: DRN628276517carried out a regulated  activity on his own behalf,  whether  in his own name  or his trading 
name, by way of business, he would have been  in breach of the general prohibition. 
the approved  persons regime
The approved persons  regime is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers 
by ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry out certain  functions 
within the financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1)  An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that no person 
performs a controlled function under  an arrangement  entered  into by A in relation to 
the carrying on by A of a regulated activity, unless the Authority approves the 
performance by that person of the controlled  function to which the arrangement  
relates.
PSL was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a controlled 
function. 
PSL arranged  for Mr P to be was registered  on the FSA register  as CF30 Customer from 
2007 to 2011.  
The approved persons  regime does  not depend on an individuals employment status. 
Employees can be approved persons, as can non-employees like Mr P.  
breach of statutory  duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to 
contravention of specific rules made  by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such rule in place  at the time of the events Mr F complains  about  was COBS 9.2.1(1)R, 
which said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation,  is suitable 
for its client.
Mr F was a private person under section 150(1) of FSMA and a private customer  under COB 
5.3.5R. Broadly, those  terms  covered all natural persons  subject to some exceptions. I am 
satisfied that no exceptions applied to Mr F  he was not a firm, and he was not carrying  out 
any regulated activities  by way of business. He was simply an ordinary consumer.
That means that if Mr F suffered a loss as a result of a rule breached by PSL, he would  have 
a right of action against PSL for breach of statutory duty. He would  have no such right 
against Mr P, because he was not a firm.
were the acts complained of done in carrying out a regulated  activity?
Ref: DRN628276518As discussed, regulated activities are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO)  and include advising on the merits of buying or selling a 
particular investment which is a security  or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO), and 
making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe  for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).    
The SIPP and Mr Fs existing pension  were a security or a relevant investment. 
Mr F also complains  about an investment he made  through his SIPP.  If that was an 
arrangement which  qualified as a collective  investment scheme (CIS) then advice to take it 
out, or arranging it, would be a regulated activity.  
FSMA says that a CIS is an arrangement with respect to any kind of property  whose purpose  
or effect  is to enable  the participants  to participate in or receive profits or income arising from 
the acquisition,  holding, management  or disposal of the property or sums paid out of such 
profits or income. For an arrangement to be a CIS the participants mustnt have day to day 
control over the management of the property and either the contributions  or the money from 
which theyre paid must  be pooled  and/or  the property must be managed  as a whole by or 
on behalf of the operator  of the CIS.
The Maroccana investment is described in the fund managers report  as an, unauthorised 
unit trust scheme under Section 243 of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000  and is 
not regulated  by the Financial Services Authority.  It then goes on to say that investors have 
subscribed for units and the funds have been  utilised by the trustee  to subscribe to the 
Maroccana Fund Limited Partnership as a Limited  partner. 
In my view the Maroccana investment exhibits the qualities of a collective investment 
scheme, most likely an unregulated collective investment scheme.  The fund itself appears to 
pool money from investors  like Mr F to invest  in commercial or residential property in the UK 
and abroad and any profits are distributed  collectively  to the investors.  There is no sign of 
any day to day control  by Mr F and the fund manager manages the scheme and investments 
on his behalf.  
So I believe  it is clear that regulated activities  took place in relation to the pension schemes 
and the investment. I therefore need to consider whether those activities were the acts of 
PSL
were those acts the acts of the authorised  firm,  (PSL)?  
PSL says it does not accept responsibility for the switch to the SIPP or the setting up of the 
SIPP or the investment made subsequently.  It says that this was not carried  out by Mr P but 
by another adviser  Mr R  who was representing  AVM. 
Mr P has provided a statement as to what happened  when  the SIPP and investment were 
taken out. 
He has said that he went to see Mr F regarding mortgage and life cover  advice. He says 
Mr F wanted to discuss his pension and so he provided a lead to Mr R of, Olive Tree and 
AVM, - whereby he would do all the work  and provide the advice.
He says:
Ref: DRN628276519I remember  completing an interim form for Olive Tree and they did the rest.
I assumed  that David  R did all the advice and the recommendations/suitability reports.
He says he did not complete a separate fact find for the pension  as, I just passed over the 
lead. 
He says he did visit Mr F on several  occasions  to chase updates and valuations.  
Mr F has a very different account of events. 
He says he only ever met with Mr P and he visited his home  on 7 January 2009.  He says Mr 
P told him he would  be able to advise on his pension. He says Mr P obtained the money 
laundering information (evidence  of identity)  to do so. Mr F says Mr P then began to advise 
him to switch his Pearl pension to another fund he would recommend. He then obtained  a 
letter of authority to request information  in order for him to do that. 
Mr F says that Mr P provided all the advice as to the switch of his pension and where to 
invest it. He says Mr P dealt with the application. He says the only time he ever had contact 
with Mr R was in 2012 and that was a, 4 second conversation in order  to change  the 
manager of the SIPP  account to Mr P.    
Mr F has supplied some  evidence of the actions carried  out by Mr P. 
He has provided  a record relating to obtaining  proof  of identity  which  shows his passport 
and proof  of address. Both of these have a money laundering stamp certifying their 
originality. The FCA adviser number code on this stamp  relates to PSL.  
He has also provided  a PSL Keyfacts  document which  he says he was given by Mr P  
although it is unclear  when  he was given this and whether it was in relation to mortgage and 
life cover advice or the advice he says he was given about the SIPP and investment.  
There is also a letter of 9 January 2009 from Mr P (on PSL headed paper) to Pearl.   
During a recent meeting  with our mutual client, I have been  asked to provide
advice in relation  to the above  policies. In order to provide the highest standard
of advice to Mr F I would be obliged if you could provide  the following
information: 
1.Confirm the type of arrangement (RAC/PPP/SHP/EPP/(FS)AVC/OPS)
2. Projection of fund values  (@ assumed growth rates of 5%, 7% and 9%) at
SRD assuming contribution continues on the current basis.
3. Projection of fund values  (@ assumed growth rates of 5%, 7% and 9%) at
SRD assuming the contract  is paid-up.
4. Confirmation of the Current Value and Transfer Value (please detail the
MVA/R separately form (sic) other costs)
5. Confirmation of the death benefits available (with and with out
Ref: DRN628276520apportionment of Terminal Bonus if applicable).
6. Any guaranteed annuity rates or underlying annuities that apply to
this/these arrangement(s).
Accompanying that was a letter of authority  allowing  Mr P to request  information about Mr 
Fs plans and it included, This authority also includes the service  rights and arrangements of 
my plans.
It would appear that Pearl responded to that enquiry on 20 February  2009. It supplied  a letter 
to, Picton-Jones Independent Financial Services enclosing the information requested.
There is an email from Mr P to Mr F dated 4 July 2009. The Subject  of the email was 
Pension Transfer to Maroccano Fund. The content of the email was:
Just to confirm, I have  provided you 
Business card
Terms  of Business  letter from Positive  Solutions
Key Features
I can confirm I have  sent the documentation  for processing and will of course keep you 
updated.
Thank you for using  Picton Jones  as your independent financial advisor
The footer of that email  was:
Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd,
Riverside House
The Waterfront
Newcastle upon  Tyne,
NE15 SNY
Tel: 0871 700 1111
Fax: 0871 700 0010
Picton-Jones Independent Financial Services is a trading name of Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Ltd" who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority.
Mr F has supplied a PSL Terms of Business document which he says was supplied to him 
at the time by Mr P.
Mr F has also supplied an email  to him from Mr P dated 21 December 2012. The footer  of 
the email says that Picton-Jones is a trading name of PSL. 
Hi Kelvin,
Hope you are well.
I can confirm that although  the Investment is due to be paid out in December 2012,I can 
confirm that if this is delayed due to non-liquated  assets (land and property  purchases),  this 
Ref: DRN628276521term is ongoing until the fund is paid out. Olive Tree funds are run by David R where  he is a 
director. There is no alarm or "Time Barred" as I believe it is in motion to be paid out shortly.
Kind Regards
Dean
Dean Picton  IFS Dip FA
Independent Financial Adviser
I also note that on the SIPP application  form the Adviser Name is David Rist and the 
Adviser Details section is stamped AVM.  
I have considered the submissions that have  been made and the evidence  carefully.  I 
believe the evidence  suggests that it is more likely that Mr P did more than simply introduce 
Mr F to Mr R. If that was all that happened  then there wouldnt be evidence of Mr P obtaining 
an authority from Mr F in respect of his pension,  information about  his pension  or proof  of his 
identity. Furthermore in the letter  from Mr P to Pearl he says he has been asked to provide 
advice to Mr F and that he requests the information so that the highest standard of advice  
can be provided to Mr F. And the email of 2009  I have referred to clearly  indicates that Mr P 
was facilitating  the pension switch  for Mr F for the purposes of investing  in the Maroccana 
Fund. He was doing so as a PSL adviser  and representing PSL. 
Mr Fs version  of events is persuasive  and supported by the evidence.  He says he only ever 
met Mr P and that is who gave him the advice to move  his pension to the SIPP and invest  in 
the Maroccana Fund. He says he never met with or spoke to Mr R when this was taking 
place  only some years  later. I note there is no evidence of Mr R or AVM corresponding 
with Mr F (at any point) or evidence of it providing  him with advice. The only evidence I have 
seen which  relates  to that business is the adviser details on the SIPP application.  
It is not clear  why AVM  is recorded as the adviser  on the SIPP  application but there is 
comment about Mr R being  closely involved with the investment itself and Olive Tree. It is 
possible that his details were included on the SIPP application so that the investment in the 
fund could take place. 
In any event I believe that is more likely than not that Mr P gave the material advice to Mr F 
to switch his pension to the SIPP with a view to investing in the Maroccana fund. I think it 
likely he gave the advice  to invest in that fund but, even if I am wrong in that finding, Mr P 
likely gave advice on, and facilitated, the SIPP with the knowledge that the money was to be 
invested in the Maroccana  fund.  
what did PSL authorise Mr P to do?
Agency is a relationship between two parties  where  they agree that one will act on behalf  of 
the other so as to affect its relations  with third parties. The one on whose behalf acts are to 
be done is called the principal. The one who is to act is called the agent. In other words the 
principal authorises the agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation  of that authority can take a number of forms.  And it is usual for the authority to 
be limited in nature.
The law recognises different forms of agency.  
Ref: DRN628276522In this case there is a written agency agreement which gives  express or actual authority to 
Mr P.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied  authority to do what  is necessary for, or 
ordinarily incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between PSL and Mr P said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined  as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
And Institution is defined as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Taken in isolation  paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce 
applications for new contracts for PSL approved products.  
However the agency agreement is a contract and, as always,  the whole contract  has to be 
considered in order to interpret  its meaning. Other relevant or potentially relevant clauses 
include:
Paragraph 2.4:
The relationship between the Company and the Registered Individual  shall be 
strictly that of principal  and Registered Individual and not in any way that of employer 
and employee. The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and 
representations of the Registered Individual in the course of carrying  out the 
business of the Agency hereby created, or in the course of performance of duties  
hereby contracted, but only to the extent  that it would be responsible  at common  law 
or by virtue of any statutory enactment or regulation, or by virtue  of the Rules  of any 
organisation (including FSA) of which the Company is member for the time being.  In 
particular, the Company  shall not be bound by acts of the Registered Individual which 
exceed the authority granted under the provision  of the Agreement  or by fraudulent 
acts of the Registered Individual or the Registered  Individuals staff.
Paragraph 3.1:
Required a Registered  Individual  to be registered  with the FSA. 
Paragraph 4.3:
Ref: DRN628276523Required the Registered Individual to conduct  business  on PSL terms of business - 
which the Registered Individual must supply to every client. 
Paragraph 10.1:
Required the Registered Individual to conduct  himself  in adherence to the FSA rules.
Paragraph 10.4:
Prohibited the Registered Individual from procuring persons to enter into agreements  
otherwise than through PSL agency.
 
Paragraph 10.7:
Any act or omission of the Registered  Individual shall be treated as an act or 
omission of the Company. It is therefore imperative that the Registered  Individual 
adheres to the strict  rules laid down by the FSA and the Companys procedures 
manuals.
Paragraph 14.:
The Registered Individual  agreed to indemnify PSL if it incurred any claims or liability  
in respect of the Registered Individuals acts or omissions. 
So amongst  other things,  its the case that the agent is appointed to do business with clients  
in accordance with PSL terms of business  and the registered individual  is required to carry 
on the business in accordance with the FSAs  rules  and PSLs  Compliance procedures. 
As mentioned above, at the time of the events complained about in this case, as required by 
paragraph 3.1 of the Agency agreement,  Mr P was registered on the FSA register. It shows 
that he was approved to perform the controlled function CF30  Customer with PSL from 
November 2007  to present. 
The PSL Compliance manual recorded that PSL was authorised  to advise on investments 
(amongst other things).
It is therefore clear to me, taking all the above into account, that, subject to conditions,  
Mr P was appointed to advise on investments on behalf of PSL and not just to introduce  
applications for new policies.
Registered individuals such as Mr P were  appointed  as, and held out by PSL, as 
independent financial  advisers able to advise on investments as authorised  and regulated by 
the FSA.   
As discussed, advising a person in their capacity as an investor or potential  investor  on the 
merits of their buying or selling an investment covered by the FSMA 2000 is a regulated 
activity under Article  53 of the Regulated Activities Order 2000.
Agreeing to carry on certain regulated activities including advising on investments is itself a 
regulated activity (under  Article 64).
And arranging  deals in investments is a regulated activity under Article 25.
Ref: DRN628276524Carrying on such regulated activities by way of business is a criminal  offence unless the 
person doing so is authorised (or exempt  but that is not relevant here).  PSL was 
authorised by the FSA to carry on all of those  activities at the time of the disputed advice. 
And it was subject to the FSAs rules when carrying on those activities.
Without going into too much detail giving compliant investment advice  involves getting  to 
know a client and reviewing their financial position, their objectives and attitude  to risk and 
then giving advice  that is suitable  to those circumstances. In broad terms this process  is set 
out in COBS 9.2 and the PSL Compliance Manual.  
When PSL agrees  to give investment advice  (which it gives  through  its registered  
individuals) it cannot know at the outset what advice it will give.  First PSL (through its 
registered individual) must assess the clients current financial position, objectives,  attitude 
to risk and so on. When it has done  that, suitable  investment advice  from PSL (given through 
its registered individual) might, depending on the circumstances discovered, be:
1.Invest money that is not currently invested  in a new plan approved  by PSL.
2.Sell an existing investment and buy a new plan approved by PSL because it is in the 
clients best interest to sell and to buy.
3.Do not sell an existing  investment  to buy a new plan approved by PSL because  it is 
not in the clients interest to sell and to buy.  
4.Do not buy a particular approved PSL investment the client is interested in because  it    
is not suitable for the client (because  it is too high risk or not currently affordable  for 
example) and so not in the clients best interest to buy.
Each one of these  possible scenarios involves regulated  investment  advice  by PSL (given  
through the registered individual)  and, as I have said, PSL does not know  which of those or 
other possible scenarios  will play out at the start of the advice process. And three  of those  
scenarios involve more than introducing  new applications for new plans. And the second and 
third might involve advising on the merits of selling plans PSL has not approved.
If a PSL registered  individual was only authorised  by PSL to introduce applications for new 
plans possible scenarios 2, 3 and 4 would seem to involve  the registered  individual acting 
unlawfully. So this possible restricted interpretation  of the authority given by PSL to its 
registered individual cant be right.   
In my view it must be the case  that the registered individuals  appointment is wider  than only 
introducing applications for new approved contracts. In my view this is either:
the meaning of clause  2.1 when read with clause 2.4, and the rest of the agreement, 
and/or
or it is the actual  or implied  authority  from all the processes set out in PSL own 
requirements on its registered individuals as result of the FSA conduct  of business 
rules it is subject  to.
In saying all that, I do not say that the appointment of the registered  individual  is 
unconditional. I only say at this point that the authority  goes wider  than only introducing 
Ref: DRN628276525applications for new approved contracts. In my view the registered individuals authority does 
include giving advice  on the merits of selling existing investments in some circumstances.
So it is my view, in this case, that PSLs authority to Mr P did potentially  include advice on 
the merits of selling existing investments as well as the introduction  of applications  for new 
contracts. 
did the agents express  authority cover  the advice in this case?
As discussed, PSL placed requirements  on its Registered Individuals  when conducting 
investment business.  It said:
The Company hereby  appoints the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for new Contracts, for submission to 
Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
That means that applications must relate to investments PSL had approved.  As I understand 
it PSL has confirmed  that AJ Bell  whose SIPP Mr F transferred to - was an approved  SIPP 
provider. In other words  that was a SIPP provider  that its RIs could use. However,  
Maroccana was not approved. 
So Mr P did have express authority from PSL to advise  on, and arrange, the AJ Bell SIPP.  
So Mr Ps actions in that respect would fall within my jurisdiction. 
Whilst the Maroccana Fund was not an approved institution in the applicable authority of 
Martin v Britannia  Life Limited [1999] the judge took a broad approach. The appointed  
representative advised on a package of transactions including  a mortgage. The judge held 
that the concept of investment advice will include all financial advice given to a prospective 
client with a view to or in connection with the purchase,  sale or surrender of an investment 
including advice as to any associated or ancillary transaction. 
So in Martin v Britannia Life a firm was held to be responsible for advice that extended  
beyond the products the representative  was authorised to advise upon. That was on the 
basis that there was an activity that was part of the overall transaction that the adviser  was 
authorised to advise  on. 
As discussed, Mr P gave  advice as to, and arranged, the AJ Bell SIPP  a plan which he 
could give advice on, or arrange, under his agreement with PSL.  PSL is therefore liable for 
that advice and the arrangement of the SIPP. 
The advice as to the SIPP and the arrangement of it was inextricably linked to the purchase 
of the Maroccana investment in the sense that the latter  could not proceed without the 
former.
I have referred to Martin  v Britannia  Life [1999]  Limited and have also taken note of 
TenetConnect v Financial  Ombudsman Service [2018]. Such set out that if the non-
authorised activity is very closely connected  to or inextricably  linked  to the activity  which  
the principal authorised and permitted then the non-authorised activity can be considered to 
be part of the overall transaction that the principal  permitted.  
The switch  to the SIPP was clearly linked  to the advice to invest  in the Maroccana Fund, 
they were part of the same transaction.  The advice  to set up the SIPP  was not given on a 
Ref: DRN628276526stand alone basis but formed  part of a process  encompassing both the switch  to the SIPP  
and the investment in the Maroccana Fund.  They were part of the same  transaction  or piece 
of advice.   
It follows that the arrangement of the Maroccana Fund falls within my jurisdiction as it was a 
linked transaction  of the advice to switch to the SIPP and part of the same  piece  of advice. 
apparent authority
Even if I am wrong that Mr P had express  authority  to give advice about the SIPP  and 
investment, there is also the matter of apparent  (or ostensible) authority. 
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual  authority of his agent.  But if the 
agent acts outside of that actual authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the 
agents acts if those acts were within the agents  apparent authority. This is the case  even if 
the agent was acting  fraudulently and in furtherance  of his own interest  provided the agent 
is acting within his apparent authority. 
This type of authority  was described by Diplock LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship  between  the principal  
and the contractor created by a representation,  made by the principal to the 
contractor, intended  to be and in fact acted upon  by the contractor, that the agent has 
authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into a contract  of a kind within  the scope 
of the "apparent" authority, so as to render  the principal liable to perform any 
obligations imposed upon him by such contract. To the relationship so created the 
agent is a stranger. He need not be (although he generally is) aware  of the existence  
of the representation  but he must not purport to make the agreement as principal  
himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering  into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from 
asserting that he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had 
actual authority to enter into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  
can in the nature of things hardly  ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His 
information as to the authority must be derived either from the principal or from the 
agent or from both,  for they alone  know what the agent's actual authority is. All that 
the contractor can know is what they tell him, which may or may not be true. In the 
ultimate analysis he relies either upon  the representation of the principal, that is, 
apparent authority, or upon the representation of the agent, that is, warranty  of 
authority...
Although Diplock  LJ referred to contractors,  the law on apparent  authority applies to any 
third party dealing with the agents  of a principal  including a consumer such as Mr F.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot arise on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in Freeman, 
Ref: DRN628276527The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to 
act in some  way in the conduct of the principal's business with other  persons. By so 
doing the principal represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so 
acting that the agent has authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into contracts  
with other  persons of the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct  of his 
principal's business  has usually  "actual"  authority to enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999],  Parker J quoted the relevant principle as stated in 
Article 74 in Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency 16th edition:
Where  a person, by words or conduct,  represents or permits  it to be represented 
that another  person has authority to act on his behalf he is bound  by the acts of that 
other person with respect  to anyone dealing with him as an agent  on the faith of any 
such representation, to the same  extent as if such other person had the authority that 
he was represented  to have, even though he had no such  actual authority.
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018], Jacobs J endorsed Parker Js 
approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in 
particular paragraph  5.3.3) that, in order to establish  apparent  authority, it is 
necessary for the claimants  to establish  a representation made by Sense [the alleged 
principal], which  was intended to be acted on and which  was in fact acted  on by the 
claimants, that MFSS [the alleged agent] was authorised by Sense to give advice in 
connection with the scheme
I also agree  with Sense that there is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the 
compulsory wording relating to the status  of MFSS and Sense appearing at the foot 
of the stationery and elsewhere   which can be read as containing any relevant 
representation as to MFSS's authority to do what they were  doing in this case:  i.e. 
running the scheme and advising in relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more  
than identify the regulatory status  of MFSS and Sense and the relationship between 
them. I did not consider that the Claimants had provided any persuasive reason as to 
how the statements  on which they relied relating to "status disclosure" could  lead to 
the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised  to provide  advice on the scheme that was 
being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible  authority requires much more than 
an assertion that Sense  conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As Martin 
shows, it requires a representation that there  was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even 
unwittingly led a customer to believe that an appointed representative or other agent 
is authorised to conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact 
authorised to conduct. 
Nor is there any analogy  with the facts or conclusions in Martin . That case was not 
concerned with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In 
Martin, the representation  by the principal  that the agent was a financial adviser  
acting for an insurance  company was regarded  as a sufficient representation that the 
adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage in that case)  which  were ancillary to 
insurance products.  In the present case, there  is nothing in the "status  disclosure" 
which contains any representation that MFSS or its financial  advisers could operate 
or advise  in connection with a deposit  scheme that MFSS  was running.
Ref: DRN628276528The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas  SA [1985], 
Lord Keith said:
In the commonly encountered case,  the ostensible  authority is general in character, 
arising when the principal  has placed the agent in a position which in the outside 
world is generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind 
in question. Ostensible general authority may also arise where  the agent has had a 
course of dealing with a particular contractor and the principal has acquiesced in this 
course of dealing and honoured transactions arising  out of it.
must the third party rely on the representation?
The principals representation  that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf  will only fix 
the principal with liability to the third party (here Mr F) if the third party relied on that 
representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs  J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is 
sufficient evidence of reliance on the representation as follows:
a relevant ingredient of a case based  on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of 
the representation alleged: see Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency  21st edition, 
paragraph [8-010]  and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin , Jonathan  Parker  J. 
held that the relevant representation  in that case (namely  that the adviser was 
authorised to give financial advice concerning a remortgage of the property)  was 
acted on by the plaintiffs in that each  of them proceeded throughout on the footing  
that in giving advice [the adviser] was acting in every respect as the agent of [the 
alleged principal] with authority  from [the alleged principal] so to act.
On the particular facts  of that case, Jacobs J placed  weight on the fact the majority of the 
claimants had never heard of the defendant, Sense Network, and that those who had heard 
of it made  their decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery 
which they later said contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes clear,  whether  or not a claimant has relied on a representation  is 
dependent on the circumstances  of that individual  case. 
In respect of apparent authority I have considered whether, on the facts of this individual  
case:
PSL made a representation to Mr F that Mr P had PSLs  authority to act on its behalf 
in carrying out the activities he now complains about, and
Mr F relied  on that representation  in entering into the transactions  he now complains 
about.
Having considered the law in this area,  including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far 
as representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether  PSL placed Mr P in a position 
which would objectively generally  be regarded as carrying its authority to enter into 
transactions such as the pension switch and investment in the Maroccana Fund. Put another 
way, did PSL knowingly   or even unwittingly  lead Mr F to believe that Mr P was 
authorised to conduct business on its behalf  of a type (namely,  carrying out the pension  
Ref: DRN628276529switch and arranging  the investment) that PSL argues he was not in fact authorised to 
conduct?
I also need to decide whether Mr P relied on any representation PSL made. Having 
considered Parker Js comments in Martin , if Mr F proceeded  throughout on the footing that 
in giving advice  Mr P was acting in every respect  as the agent of PSL with authority  from 
PSL so to act, then this suggests  I should  conclude that Mr F relied on PSL  representation.
did PSL represent to Mr F that Mr P had the relevant authority?
As I have discussed, I am persuaded that Mr P did give advice to switch  Mr Fs pension  and 
investment advice on behalf of PSL.
The evidence is that Mr F received a terms of business agreement  in respect of the disputed 
advice. It is my view that in principle an agent  of PSL was authorised to:
advise on the setting up of investment such as the Maroccana Fund investments
advise on the switch of the pension to the SIPP. 
None of these  activities were in themselves novel or exceptional  or unexpected for an IFA. 
These are activities that fall within the class of activities that IFAs are usually authorised to 
do. Any restrictions on the authority to give such advice (such  as set out by PSL)  would not 
have been visible to Mr F. So for example  he would  not know  that an adviser should only 
recommend approved investments, should obtain  clearance from PSL before giving certain 
types of advice and should present the advice in certain ways.
PSL placed Mr P in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be regarded as 
having authority  to carry out the acts Mr P complains about.  
PSL authorised  Mr P to give pensions and investment  advice on its behalf. 
PSL arranged  for Mr P to appear  on the FSA register  in respect of PSL. And Mr P was 
approved to carry on the controlled function  CF30 at the time of the disputed  advice.
PSL held itself out as an independent  financial adviser that gave advice and offered  products 
from the whole of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information  was provided 
to clients or potential clients about  the agent being  authorised in relation  to approved 
products only.  
It was in PSLs interest for the general public, including Mr F, to understand that it was taking 
responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I am satisfied that PSL intended  
Mr F to act on its representation that Mr P was its financial adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of PSLs business. It 
said in its terms of business that its partners would  give impartial,  independent  financial 
advice. I do not see how PSL could have carried out its business activities  at all if the 
general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr P as having authority to give 
investment advice on behalf of PSL.
did Mr F rely on PSLs representation? 
Ref: DRN628276530Mr F has said clearly  that he understood Mr P to be acting  as PSL adviser  when he gave the 
advice about the pension  switch and Maroccana Fund investment. As discussed, in my view 
it is highly  likely that Mr P did represent  to Mr F that he was giving advice and providing  his 
services as an adviser of PSL. 
There is no persuasive evidence to show that Mr F knew or should  have known  that Mr P 
was acting in any capacity other than a PSL adviser.
In my view, on balance, the evidence does indicate that Mr F proceeded on the basis that Mr 
P was acting  in every  respect as the agent of PSL with authority from PSL so to act.
should PSL to be required  to bear any losses caused by Mr P?
The courts have taken into account  whether it is just to require a principal to bear a loss 
caused by the wrongdoing  of his agent.  I have  considered whether it is just to hold PSL 
responsible for any detriment Mr F has suffered as result of the advice he received from Mr 
P. I think it is just to hold PSL responsible for the consequences of its putting Mr P in the 
position where Mr F could  suffer loss as a result of his actions. In particular, I note:
PSL was in a position  to monitor Mr Ps behaviour.  
PSL did not tell Mr F it had put any of the limits on his authority that it says are 
relevant here.
PSLs agency agreement acknowledges that it will be held responsible for the wrongs  
of its agents and includes and requires the agent  to provide  it with an indemnity it 
respect of any losses etc it suffers as result  of such wrongs.
So overall I consider  that it is just for PSL to be required to bear any losses caused  by any 
wrong doing done by Mr P whilst carrying on the a controlled function assigned  to him by 
PSL.
vicarious liability
It is also appropriate for me to consider whether PSL is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr 
P  independently of whether apparent  authority also operated  such as to fix PSL with 
liability for the actions  of its agents. 
what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common  law principle of strict, no-fault liability  for wrongs committed by 
another person. 
Not all relationships  are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.  The classic example of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability is the employment relationship, but Mr P 
was not an employee  of PSL. However,  the employment relationship  is not the only 
relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage test to decide whether  vicarious liability can apply:
Stage  one is to ask whether there is a sufficient  relationship between  the wrongdoer  
and the principal (Cox  v Ministry  of Justice [2016]).
Ref: DRN628276531Stage  two is to ask whether  the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties  on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be 
held liable  (Mohamud  v WM Morrison  Supermarkets plc [2016] ).
There is some uncertainty in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should be applied. I 
note that in Frederick  v PSL [2018]  the Court of Appeal explicitly  declined  to decide  whether 
the test in Cox applied  to PSLs relationship  with another of its registered individuals.  
If it were the case that vicarious liability could never have anything to do with principals and 
agents then I consider  it likely that the Court  of Appeal would have simply said so. But in any 
event, the relationship between Mr P and PSL was not just an agency relationship. Mr P was 
registered with the FSA as an approved person able to carry out regulated activities  on 
PSLs behalf, and this complaint is about  the regulated activities  of advising on and 
arranging deals in investments. I consider  that it would be wrong for me to simply ignore or 
set aside the regulatory background in reaching my decision.  
I am not aware of any case law concerning  the exact set of circumstances that Mr F 
complains about. But that does not prevent me from applying the law as I understand it to 
be. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
the words  used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a 
statute. Where a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been  the 
subject of an authoritative  judicial decision,  it may be valuable to stand back  and 
consider whether the imposition of vicarious liability would be fair, just and 
reasonable.
Had Mr F referred this matter to a court instead of to the ombudsman  service, I consider that 
the court is likely to have  chosen to apply  the approach suggested  by Lord Reed. I will 
therefore do the same.
the stage one test
It is now accepted  that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer and employee, 
may be capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach adopted by Lord Phillips in Various Claimants v Catholic 
Child Welfare  Society [2012] UKSC  56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other  
than one of employment is in principle  capable of giving rise to vicarious liability  
where harm is wrongfully done by an individual who carries on activities  as an 
integral part of the business activities carried on by a defendant and for its benefit 
(rather than his activities being  entirely attributable to the conduct of a recognisably  
independent business of his own or of a third party), and where  the commission  of 
the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by assigning those activities to the 
individual in question.
I am satisfied that giving advice to Mr F to switch his pension  and then invest  in Maroccana 
Fund was carrying on activities as an integral part of the business  activities carried  on by 
PSL. I say that because:
At the time, PSLs stated purpose  was to  help our clients, understand, protect and 
increase their assets. I consider that the provision of, and subsequent 
implementation of, investment  advice is an integral part of fulfilling that purpose. 
Ref: DRN628276532PSLs business model was that it gave financial advice itself,  through its Partners. 
As set out in its partnership code,  those Partners promised to give impartial,  
independent financial  advice.  
PSLs status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach of the general  
prohibition when it gave investment advice to members of the public. So, when  its 
Partners gave investment  advice  on behalf  of PSL,  carrying out PSLs  business 
activities, those Partners were not in breach of the general prohibition either.
Mr P was a PSL Partner. PSL had given him permission  to carry out the controlled  
function of CF 30 Customer on behalf  of PSL.  PSL had therefore engaged Mr P to 
carry out activities that were an integral part of its business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance  as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right - set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance was 
published some  time after the events Mr F complains about, the relevant parts  of the 
legislation (in respect of permissions to give regulated financial advice) have not changed 
substantively. I therefore  consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in 
PERG, which says:
In practice,  a person  is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the 
grounds that he is not carrying  on his own business  if he is an employee  or 
performing a role very similar to an employee.
PSL clearly intended  Mr P to fall outside  the general  prohibition  when acting on PSLs behalf 
in giving and implementing  investment advice. As Ive said,  I consider that the only way in 
which Mr P could have fallen outside  the general prohibition would be on the basis that he 
was carrying on PSLs business rather than his own. In my view, the guidance therefore 
provides support for the contention that Mr Ps relationships with PSL were very similar  to 
employment relationships.  
Further, in allowing Mr P to give investment advice on its behalf, PSL was creating the risk 
that he might  make  errors  or act negligently  in doing so. PSL assigned  to Mr P the customer  
facing task of giving regulated financial advice to PSLs customers, and it is always possible 
for that task to be carried out negligently.
PSL Solutions had arranged  for Mr P to be approved by the FSA to perform  various  
controlled functions in relation to regulated activities carried on by PSL. Those  controlled  
functions  which included the giving  of regulated investment advice  were activities  
assigned to Mr P by PSL as part of PSLs business.  
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely  connected  with the 
business activities of his principal as to make it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud, the test requires a court  to, make an evaluative  judgment 
in each case having regard to all the circumstances and having regard to the assistance  
provided by previous decisions  on the facts of other  cases. That is not a precise test, but 
the courts have  recognised the inevitability of imprecision given, the infinite range of 
circumstances where  the issue of vicarious liability arises.
Ref: DRN628276533In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I consider that it is just for PSL to be held 
responsible for the actions Mr F complains  about. I note:
Mr P was giving  pension and investment advice, completing paperwork and making  
arrangements to put that advice into practice.  I consider these  activities  are closely  
connected to the business activities of PSL, a firm which  provided  financial advice  
and arranged investment transactions for its customers.
If PSL is not vicariously liable here,  then Mr Fs ability to obtain compensation would 
depend on whether the PSL Partner  he dealt with was an employee of PSL. In Cox, 
the court suggested it would have been unreasonable  and unfair  for the claimants 
ability to receive compensation for the injury she suffered  while working in a prison 
kitchen to depend on whether the worker who injured her was an employee or a 
prisoner. I consider that argument has even more relevance  here  at least Mrs Cox 
is likely  to have either  known or had the ability to find out who was an employee  and 
who was a prisoner.  But Mr F had no way of knowing Mr Ps employment status (I 
am aware that Mr Ps agency  contract  said he had to make his status as a registered 
individual clear   but even if he had done  that, the term Registered Individual did not 
imply anything about his employment  status).
The agency contracts say PSL will not be responsible if Mr P acts outside  his 
authority. But the contract also says that any act or omission of the registered 
individual will be treated as an act of PSL. In my view, those two terms conflict. I do 
not consider it would be fair for PSL to be entitled  to rely on one but ignore the other.
PSL received  no benefit from the acts Mr F complain about, and in particular it did 
not receive any commission. But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud , vicarious  
liability can apply even where  an employee  has abused his position in a way that 
cannot possibly  have been  of benefit to his employer   such  as carrying out a private 
fraud or assaulting a customer. In Frederick , PSL was found not to be vicariously 
liable despite having received commission. The commission issue is not 
determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions I have  reached are different to the conclusions  reached 
by the court  in Frederick.  In that case, PSL was found not to be vicariously liable for the 
conduct of a named Mr Warren. I have not seen the whole of Mr Warrens agency  contract  
with PSL, but from the sections quoted in the judgment the terms in his contract appear to be 
identical to the terms in Mr Ps contract.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts  here that I do not consider that 
the same  outcome is inevitable in this complaint. In particular,  I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were approached by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a 
registered individual of PSL. Mr Qureshi induced them to invest  in a property 
scheme, which he was running  jointly with Mr Warren. The claimants, had no 
personal dealings  with [Mr] Warren and did not meet  him or receive any written  
communications from himthere was no semblance  of an advice process. Here, 
Mr F had personal dealings with Mr P, PSLs registered individual.  He met with Mr P 
who provided him with advice. Mr P carried out business activities  of a type that had 
been specifically  assigned to him by PSL, and which he could only (lawfully) perform 
on behalf of PSL.
Ref: DRN628276534 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage applications for loans on 
behalf of the claimants. Mr F has made no such allegation  of fraud. He only 
complains about the suitability  of the advice. Their allegation is one of negligence 
and/or breach of statutory duty. He does not say as such  that Mr P was dishonest. 
There is therefore no need for me to consider whether  PSL would have been 
vicariously liable for any dishonest acts by Mr P.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage  applications in the way he did 
because he was an agent of PSL. But the claimants in Frederick did not say they had 
suffer[ed]  any loss through the actual re-mortgaging or their receipt  of monies from 
[the lender].  Instead, they suffered losses only when  they handed the money over to 
Mr Warren (or to the company of which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi  were  directors). In 
contrast, Mr F says he suffered  losses as a direct result of the advice given to him by 
Mr P, in his capacity as a PSL financial adviser,  to switch his pension and invest  in 
Maroccana Fund. 
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and 
Mohamud are not applicable to Mr P, PSL, and the specific acts Mr F complains about. The 
applicability of those  tests to agency  relationships  is unclear,  as is their applicability to some 
or all of the reliance-based torts, possibly including negligent mis-statement.  
Even if those specific tests are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a 
court to consider whether PSL is vicariously  liable for the actions of Mr P. The earlier cases, 
including Armagas  and the Christian  Brothers case [2012], make clear  that justice  is the 
courts overriding concern in such matters.  Where the claimant  and the defendant are both 
innocent parties, the court  will consider  whether the circumstances under which the 
wrongdoer committed his wrong were such as to make it just for the defendant to bear the 
loss.
Bearing in mind the regulatory position,  I consider  that in the particular circumstances of this 
case it is just to require  PSL to bear any loss caused by negligent investment advice 
provided by Mr P.
From a public policy point of view,  one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for 
the protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which 
both FSMA and the FSA gave effect  to that protection. Mr P was a PSL approved person. In 
view of section 59(1) of FSMA,  I consider  that when Mr P carried out the regulated  activity  of 
a pension switch,  advising on investments,  and arranging deals in investments, those 
activities were  the activities of PSL. PSL is clearly responsible for its own activities.  
I see no support in FSMA  or anywhere else  for the belief that PSLs  responsibility for its 
approved persons was dependent on the precise  nature of its contracts with those people 
(agency/non-agency). Similarly, I do not see anything to suggest  PSLs responsibility 
depends on whether the approved persons  conduct is classified in terms of one type of tort 
(reliance-based) or another. I would be surprised if a court  were  to take the view that such 
distinctions were relevant  to the outcome of this complaint.
I therefore consider  that PSL is vicariously  liable for the acts Mr F complains about 
regardless of whether Mr P carried out those acts with apparent authority on behalf  of PSL 
Ref: DRN628276535(However, as I have  said, I consider that Mr P did in fact act with PSLs apparent authority 
when they carried  out the acts complained of.) 
statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I am satisfied that when Mr P gave the advice complained 
of, and when Mr P arranged the associated pension switch and deals in investments,  he was 
acting in his capacity as a PSL approved person for the purpose of carrying on PSLs  
regulated business.  He was not carrying on a business of his own.
That means PSL is subject to the Conduct of Business (COBS) suitability rules in respect of 
Mr Ps advice.  If Mr Ps advice was not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised defences) 
PSL is responsible  in damages to Mr F under  the statutory cause of action provided by 
section 150 of FSMA.  I therefore  consider that section 150 of FSMA provides an alternative 
route by which  PSL is responsible for the acts complained of.
In summary  and having considered all of the circumstances  here, as well as the legal 
authorities, I am provisionally satisfied that: 
Mr P had express authority to give advice  as to, and arrange, the SIPP.  The SIPP  
and the investment were part of one overall  transaction and therefore PSL is 
responsible for the advice given about  that transaction. The complaint would 
therefore fall within my jurisdiction and I can consider the merits of it. 
In addition  or in the alternative  - PSL represented to Mr F that Mr P had PSLs 
authority both to advise on the pension switch and the investment in Maroccana  
Fund.
In addition  or in the alternative   PSL is vicariously liable for the acts Mr F 
complains about.  
PSL also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the acts 
complained about.
I am therefore satisfied  that PSL is responsible for the acts Mr F complains about. 
my provisional findings on merits
Mr F says he was a maintenance fitter/welder at the time the advice was given and earned 
around £20,000 to £24,000 a year. He has confirmed that he did not have any experience  of 
investing in the Stock  Market, had not made  any investments prior to the pension  switch  
and has not made any since. He has also confirmed  that his assets consist  of his home and 
personal possessions.  
So Mr F didnt have  any investments of an aggressive, high risk or unregulated nature.  In 
fact it seems  he had no experience of risk based  investments at all apart from his pension.  
He has said he was cautious  in terms of risk acceptance.
The Maroccana Fund was an unregulated property investment.  It was high risk and the 
investor faced the real possibility of losing all their money. Because it was unregulated Mr F 
did not benefit from the protection  afforded by the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme. 
Ref: DRN628276536Mr Fs circumstances  do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money in the 
pension scheme  or that he could do so. They also do not indicate that he was suited  to the 
risks this investment presented. 
Mr Fs investment experience was very limited and does not suggest that he was an 
experienced investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would not be 
reliant on the adviser to give him suitable advice and consider his best interests. I have not 
seen that the adviser gave Mr F any material advice about the Maroccana  Fund  investment 
itself and in particular that it was unregulated  and therefore did not benefit from regulatory  
protections. 
The value of Mr Fs pension funds was modest  at about £30,000 to £40,000. The material  
issue is that the majority  of that money was designated  for investing in the Maroccana fund. 
That put most of his pension savings at risk of total loss (which  is what appears to have  
happened). 
As discussed Mr P knew that Mr F was to invest his pension funds in the Maroccana Fund. 
He obtained very little detail about Mr F or his financial situation. There was no detail  about  
his expenditure,  assets, savings, investments or liabilities. 
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Mr F was not the sophisticated and professional type of 
investor for which such an unregulated investment would  be suitable; the risks of the 
investment are far higher  than were suitable for him and they were of a nature that was not 
appropriate for him. In any event far too much  of the pension  money  was invested in the 
Maroccana Fund  there was little, if any, diversification.
Bearing all this background in mind, I do not believe  there  is any persuasive evidence  that it 
was appropriate  for Mr F to take the risks of switching and invest  in the Maroccana Fund, 
which put his retirement  income and benefits at much greater risk. 
calculating compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr F 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I think if this unsuitable  advice had not been  given then Mr F would have  kept his existing  
pension. But its unlikely  to be possible  for PSL to reinstate Mr F into his previous  pension 
scheme. Bearing that in mind what is set out below is in my view a fair way of compensating 
Mr F for the unsuitable  advice. 
The redress  calculation is set out on the basis that the Maroccana Fund may still exist. If it 
does not then the parties should let me know
In summary,  PSL should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Fs previous pension plan, as at the date of my 
Final Decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2. Obtain the transfer value, as at the date of my Final Decision, of Mr Fs SIPP, including 
any outstanding  charges.  
Ref: DRN6282765373. And then pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
In addition, PSL should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr F to the SIPP, for the next five years (this will only be 
necessary if Mr Fs investment in the Maroccana Fund still exists and cannot be encashed).
5.Pay Mr F £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
6.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Fs previous pension plan if it had not been  
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of my Final Decision.
PSL should ask Mr Fs former pension provider to calculate the notional transfer value that 
would have applied  as at the date of my Final Decision had he not transferred his pension 
but instead remained invested.  
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
PSL should assume that any contributions or withdrawals  that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
7.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my Final Decision of Mr Fs SIPP,  
including any outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.
8.Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PSL should pay it as a cash sum 
to Mr F. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
9.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PSL given  suitable advice I dont  think there  would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr F 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  This might be the case  if the 
Maroccana fund still exists and cannot  be encashed
Ref: DRN628276538Ideally, PSL should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr F back in the position he would have been in. But it is possible that 
the ownership of the Marocanna Fund cant be transferred. 
If it cant be transferred, to provide certainty to all parties, I think  its fair that PSL pays  Mr F 
an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the 
previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be 
closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, PSL may ask Mr F to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Marocanna  investment in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party  as a result 
of the investment. That undertaking  should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive. PSL will need  to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it 
asks Mr F to provide an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded by this decision 
may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, PSL wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any 
future payments under the Marocanna investment, it must agree to pay any further  future 
SIPP fees. 
In addition, PSL is entitled to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr F of any claim Mr F 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension switch  and Marocanna 
investment. If PSL chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected  before 
payment of compensation is made. PSL must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr F 
for her consideration and agreement. 
10.Pay Mr F £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I believe Mr F has been caused significant upset  by the events this complaint relates to, and 
the apparent loss of pension benefits.  I think that a payment  of £500 is fair to compensate  for 
that upset.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  in this decision,  I do believe  Mr Fs complaint against PSL would fall 
within my jurisdiction. I also believe  it should be upheld and compensation calculated as set 
out above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282765