K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Age UK Enterprises Limited wrote to him and said hed provided wrong 
information about his claims history  when he renewed his car insurance.
Background
In July 2017, Mr B was involved in a car accident.  Mr Bs car was written off and he claimed 
on his insurance  policy  at the time.  Mr Bs claim was successful, and he was found not to be 
at fault.
On 9 August  2017, Mr B rang Age UK to obtain a quote for insurance. During the phone call 
Age UK asked Mr B for information about  any previous claims hed made.  Mr B told Age UK 
about the accident hed had a month earlier. And that the claim was closed. Mr B told Age 
UK that the claim wasnt  his fault. And hed been paid out. Based on the information Mr B 
provided, Age UK offered  Mr B an insurance  policy at a cost of £654.36.
After providing Mr B with a quotation, Age UK checked Mr Bs claims history on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange Register  (CUE).  It discovered that Mr Bs previous claim was 
still pending as his previous insurer were still trying to reclaim the money from the third party.  
This increased Mr Bs insurance premium by £258.61.
On 11 August 2017, Age UK wrote to Mr B to let him know  his premium  had increased. And 
to remind him that he had a duty to advise an insurer of any claims.  Mr B says the letter  was 
defamatory and upsetting.  He says he provided  a bona fide declaration to Age UK based  on 
his understanding of what had happened with his claim. Hes also concerned  that Age UK 
has unfairly recorded adverse information about him on their database, which  could 
prejudice his credibility for insurance.
Mr B complained to our service. An investigator looked into Mr Bs case. She thought having 
listened to the call, that Mr B had answered  the questions  to the best of his knowledge and 
understanding. She also thought that the questions  asked by Age UK were  clear and not 
misleading. She didnt  think  that Age UK had done anything  wrong  and they were right to 
increase the premium based on the evidence they had.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary he said; 
Age UK shouldve made their questions about the claim clearer
hes concerned  that the letter Age UK wrote to him in August will prejudice any 
insurance application he makes and
hes upset about the wording of the letter, which he says suggests  he deliberately 
gave Age UK wrong information.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
When buying an insurance policy, a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation and answer  the questions reasonably and honestly. In deciding 
this case Ive looked at how clear  and how specific the questions  were. I cannot decide  what  
the questions  should be but whether  the questions were clear  and whether  Mr B has been 
treated fairly.
Ref: DRN69892462Age UK considered a number  of factors about Mr B and the risk he presented  when he rang 
for an insurance quote. Factors such as the vehicle, experience, address, previous claims or 
accidents and other  matters all get calculated to establish how much a customer  will pay for 
insurance. These are common factors and issues that businesses  across the industry use in 
reaching a price.
I have listened  to the call with the arranger from Age UK where Mr B requested a quote for 
motor insurance. Mr B was asked  questions about  any claims, accidents or incidents  hed 
had in the previous years.  Age UK specifically wanted to know about the last five years  and 
Mr B correctly gave details of the accident  hed had in July 2017.
The arranger  asked Mr B is it closed and he replied, Oh yes, paid out. Age UK also asked 
Mr B and this was a non-fault claim,  is that right? Mr B replied Yep.  Mr B was very 
particular and specific about the answers he gave to all the questions the arranger asked. In 
my view I think the answers were  thorough  and an accurate reflection of the circumstances 
of the accident.  And his understanding of his previous claim.
Based on Mr Bs answers  Age UK recorded  the claim as a non-fault  claim which therefore 
didnt have any impact  on Mr Bs insurance premium.  However,  after checking the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange Register  (CUE)  Age UK found Mr B had one notifiable claim 
instead of none. This was because his insurer  hadnt yet recovered  its loss from the third 
party involved in the accident in July 2017. And this was therefore  recorded as a fault claim 
against Mr B. Age UK wrote to Mr B to let him know there was a discrepancy  in the 
information he gave  them and his premium would  increase because of the fault claim
Age UK wanted  to find out whether Mr Bs insurer at the time had recovered  its losses from 
the third-party insurer. But I cant see how the question Age UK asked Mr B would have 
elicited the information required or how Mr B was supposed to know  about an internal 
process between insurers  unless he had been given that information by his own insurer. As 
Mr B had been sent a letter from his insurer two days  after the accident telling him his losses  
had been paid, I think its reasonable he gave the answers that he did. It shouldnt  be up to 
the customer to clarify the purpose of the question. The insurer  is the expert and it should 
know what it wants answered. So, I think Age UKs questions werent specific enough. 
Even if Age UK had asked Mr B if his insurers had recovered the cost from the third party, I 
suspect Mr B would  have said he didnt know, and he would have directed them to his 
previous insurer. I cant imagine why Mr B would know  the answer to that question  unless  he 
was told by the insurers and I havent  seen any evidence that this was the case.  I also dont 
think that asking:  is the claim  closed?  is equivalent  to asking: did your insurers  recover the 
cost from the third party?. As far as Mr B was aware his claim was closed because  hed 
received a settlement from his insurers.
Taking all this into account I dont think that the questions Mr B was asked were  clear 
enough.
I have considered the impact that this has had on Mr B, I have read his letters and I know  he 
was very upset to have  his integrity questioned. And I can see that he has had to go to the 
trouble of writing  several letters to Age UK to try and sort things  out. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr B has been caused some trouble  and upset. I think  that if Age UKs questions  had been  
clearer and it had asked  for specific information it wouldnt have led to any confusion  or letter 
Ref: DRN69892463writing or upset. I have  also considered that Mr B has been  worried  about  this issue  for some 
time. I think that £200 is reasonable  compensation in the circumstances.
Having said all that the question that Age UK wanted answered  was a legitimate question  for 
an insurer to ask as it would impact the price of the policy. In this case. Age UK gave Mr B 
details of his premium in advance  of renewal and then updated that price  on learning new 
information. Thats how Id expect Age UK to deal with the renewal of the policy. I am 
satisfied that Mr B was treated the same way as any other policyholder in similar 
circumstances. So, Im satisfied Age UK followed a fair process  when they found out there 
was an outstanding claim.
Mr B is concerned that Age UKs letter will have an adverse impact on future  insurance  
applications he makes. And he wants Age UK to remove the letter from its database.  Whilst I 
appreciate Mr Bs upset,  Age UK havent  done  anything wrong when it wrote to Mr B to let 
him know it had checked the claims database.  It was simply acting on information which 
differed from what Mr B had provided.  So, I cant ask Age UK to remove the letter from its 
records.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision.  He said he accepted the decision,  but he wanted 
the business to amend its internal records and withdraw any adverse information  on the 
national database.
Age UK have disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary  they have said that whilst 
the letter sent to Mr B had their branding it was sent by the company that arrange and 
administer insurance  for them and it was this company who said Mr B had provided  wrong  
information.
Age UK also said that a previous ombudsman decided that the questions  that were asked 
were fair and I havent referred to that decision.  
My findings  
Ive re considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of the parties  response to it.
Mr B has said that he wants Age UK to amend its internal records. I have dealt with this in 
my provisional decision. Age UK wrote to Mr B when they checked  the claims database and 
found a claim outstanding  for Mr B. I am satisfied that Age UK were  doing so because  the 
information provided was different than what was on the database and I am satisfied they 
havent done anything wrong  or treated Mr B differently to how they would any other policy 
holder in that situation. I will therefore  not be asking Age UK to amend its internal records.
Mr B also wants  the National database  to hold no adverse information  about him. The 
national database  will hold information that reflects the historical situation at the time that 
Mr B got a quote  from Age UK. At that time his claim had not been settled by the third-party 
insurer, And the database reflected  this. The claim was subsequently settled by the third-
party insurer  and that will also be reflected on the database. So, I cannot say that any 
adverse information  is reflected on the database.
Ref: DRN69892464Age UK have said that it was not them but a different company who said Mr B provided 
wrong information. I have  considered this, and I note that the company Age UK refer to is an 
agent of theirs and Age UK is responsible  for the actions of its agents.
Age UK have also referred to a previous  ombudsmans decision.  As Age UK is aware  each 
case is determined on its own individual merits. And a previous  ombudsmans decision does 
not bind me to make the same decision. I listened to the call recording of the arranger  from 
Age UK and for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision I am satisfied that the 
questions asked werent clear enough. 
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require Age UK Enterprises Limited to 
Pay £200 in compensation for his material  distress  and inconvenience
Age UK Enterprises Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Mr B accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6989246