K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr F bought  the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Mr F told us (and 
I accept) that he applied  for the mortgage  and PPI policy  at the same  time in a branch. 
The policy covered Mr F for disability  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £250 a month towards Mr Fs mortgage  balance and his other 
associated housing costs  in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £12.65 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a site engineer . He told us he was entitled to some sick 
pay, but he could not remember how much. Mr F said he was entitled to death in service  
benefit and redundancy  pay. He thought  the redundancy  pay would have been the 
equivalent of between three  and six months full pay. I understand Mr F was in good health  at 
the time of the sale. 
Halifax sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account was closed in 2004. 
Mr Fs representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr F about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr F and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN65084552The information Mr F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN65084553I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Fs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Fs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr F sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN65084554did Mr F know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
I note that those representing  Mr F didnt specifically argue  that Mr F wasnt presented with a 
choice in respect of his PPI policy. However,  I do note that it was stated in the PPI 
questionnaire that the cover was presented as part of a package.  
After considering the information before me, I think Mr F would have most likely known the 
PPI was a separate financial product to his mortgage. I say this because  there  appears  to 
have been a relatively detailed conversation  about  the PPI at the relevant time. I note that Mr 
F answered questions about  his health  and employment  status. If the PPI had been 
presented as part of the mortgage, I think Mr F would have probably wondered  why he had 
to answer questions about  it. I can also see that the PPI was listed as a separate  transaction 
on his mortgage  account, so in my view, its most likely the person selling it made it clear 
that the PPI was separate to the mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr F knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it advised Mr F to buy the PPI. It was not clear from their submissions whether 
those representing  Mr F were arguing  Halifax provided advice. For the avoidance of doubt, I 
think this was most likely  an advised  sale. The evidence suggests Halifax gathered  
information about Mr Fs personal circumstances in respect of PPI and so I think its likely it 
made a tailored recommendation to him. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr F with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the electronic evidence suggests that 
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr F. The adviser had information about some of Mr Fs financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. And I can see that some questions were asked about his wider 
circumstances such as his health  and employment  status. Having said that, I dont think  it 
did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable.  For example, the evidence  Ive seen doesnt 
suggest Halifax enquired as to Mr Fs existing means. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr F given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN65084555-Mr F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Fs ability to continue  to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time. Mr F told us he had some sick pay, but he couldnt tell us 
how much. I think its most  unlikely that he would have received 12 months full pay 
given that hed only worked for his employer  for three years. I think  the PPI would 
most likely have  paid out for longer than his full sick pay. The redundancy entitlement  
Mr F told us about appears to have also been very generous, given  his length of 
service. But even  if I accept that Mr Fs redundancy entitlement would have been up 
to six months full pay, the PPI would  still have lasted for longer. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr F. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr F. There was 
nothing about  Mr Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
-
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr Fs 
circumstances.
-I appreciate Mr F told us he would have  been  entitled to death in service benefit. But 
that policy would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of Mr Fs death. He 
wouldnt have received such a payment if he became unwell  or if he lost his job. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr F sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr F would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr F agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr F Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable.  Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr F all of the information  he needed about 
the policy to make an informed decision about  whether to follow the recommendation and 
take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN65084556In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr F suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good  
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Halifax ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr F? To what extent did Mr F suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr F. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr F suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr F would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr F, I have  found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr F suffered loss or damage in 
this case primarily  depends on whether, if Halifax  had explained  things properly, Mr F would 
have acted differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
Ref: DRN65084557product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Fs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr F knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told him the exact premium at the point Mr F applied  
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr F would have been  told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr F would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr F would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Fs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr F knew about or for which he received advice, treatment or counselling 
from any doctor in the 12 months  before the start date and which recurred within  24 
months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr F be unable to do 
his own job or any similar job, or any paid work which his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr F pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Mr F was eligible for its benefits and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr F 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
Ref: DRN65084558medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr F might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr F 
from taking out the policy,  Mr F, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only unable  to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  given Mr Fs circumstances, on balance,  I 
still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr F that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but  12  
months was a longer period than Mr F would have  most likely received full sick pay for his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr F would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr F be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Fs sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr F was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr F 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr F would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN65084559Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr F 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr F compensation,  as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr F, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr F and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr F in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Ref: DRN650845510Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6508455