K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say National  Counties Building Society (National Counties) mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 April 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Both parties  confirmed that my provisional decision had been received. 
National Counties didnt  have any further  comments or information that they wished for me 
to consider.
Mr and Mrs S responded. Broadly summarised, they were unhappy that National  Counties 
didnt provide a copy of the original PPI application and dont feel it was fair for me to 
consider a sample application from the time,  as their application  could have been different.  
Mr and Mr S reiterated their complaint point that taking  PPI was a requirement and wasnt 
optional. Mr and Mrs S say they always kept savings of around  £10,000,  and coupled  with 
the sick pay Mr S received and that he didnt  have any medical  conditions,  Mr and Mrs S say 
they didnt need the PPI.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S submitted further  testimony about  why they consider the PPI was 
mis-sold. But having read their letter, they havent  raised anything  new.  I had considered all 
of their points within my provisional decision and gave my reasons why I thought it meant 
that their complaint  shouldnt be upheld.
I explained why I wasnt surprised that National Counties couldnt provide a copy  of the 
original application  form and I agreed that I couldnt be sure that the sample application was 
a copy of what was in use at the time  but importantly I felt it was indicative of National 
Counties sales process at the time. 
And after considering  Mr and Mrs Ss testimony, what National Counties  has said about its 
sales process and based  on the evidence I have seen, I thought  it was likely that Mr and Mrs 
S were aware that they had a choice about taking out PPI. And they chose to take it out at 
the level they wanted.
Mr and Mrs S say they always kept savings of around £10,000. But the initial evidence of the 
savings they have provided was from 2002   which was six years after the sale of PPI. So 
within my provisional decision I was unable to place  too much  weight on that evidence. Mr S 
has since tried to obtain earlier statements showing his savings but without success.  This 
isnt surprising, given  the time that has passed.  
Ref: DRN60443512But within my provisional decision I had noted  that within the mortgage  application  form 
Mr and Mrs S had two outstanding loans with a balance totalling around £15,000 to pay 
back. So I was of the opinion that I didnt think in 1996 Mr and Mrs S had the level of savings 
they thought they may have had. And even if savings  were available  the PPI provided  them  
with a security that meant they wouldnt  have  to rely on savings to meet their repayments.  
Those savings could have been  used for something else or for their original purpose.
Mr S reiterated that the sick pay he received meant  he didnt need the PPI.
But, as explained  in my provisional decision,  the PPI in the event  of a successful claim 
because of an accident or sickness, or if he lost his job would pay out for up to 12 months 
per claim. So, again, I think it provided valuable protection in Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances. 
Also, Mr S was the sole income  provider at the time,  so I think its possible Mr and Mrs S 
would have thought the cover useful if Mr S was unable to work  for a lengthy period, whether 
that was because of an accident  or sickness or if Mr S lost his job. Overall the PPI could 
have provided  valuable protection. 
I appreciate that Mr S says he was in good health,  but that doesnt mean that something  
couldnt have  gone wrong. Insurance is there  to protect against  the unexpected. So if 
something had gone  wrong then Mr S had valuable cover that would have met his mortgage  
repayments.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what they have said in 
response to my provisional  decision. But, for the reasons  Ive given above, these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60443513Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs S say National  Counties Building  Society (National Counties) mis-sold  them  a mortgage 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1996. The policy was in Mr Ss name  only. Mr 
and Mrs S paid a monthly amount for the policy and it provided a benefit of £728 if Mr S made a 
successful claim.  The PPI would  pay out for up to 12 months for each successful claim.
Due to the time that has passed,  it is unclear  with Mr Ss policy covered him for Accident and 
Sickness only, Unemployment  only or both,  so Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs S say that details about PPI were given to them at the same  time as the mortgage offer.  
Mr and Mrs S say they saw the PPI as a requirement, and not an optional product. Mr and Mrs S are 
unhappy that National Counties cant provide their original PPI application. 
The sale of Mr and Mrs Ss policy happened a long time ago, so there isnt much information  or 
paperwork from the actual time of sale. I dont find this surprising given the sale was over 20 years 
ago and businesses arent obliged  to keep paperwork indefinitely. 
Mr and Mrs S completed their mortgage  application  through a brokers application form. This 
application form was then received by National Counties who agreed to the lending  and sent Mr and 
Mrs S an offer of advance.
National Counties say that its process at the time was to include an application  form for PPI with the 
offer of advance. And this seems to be in line with Mr and Mrs Ss recollections of what  happened.
National Counties hasnt  been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss PPI application  form  but as 
explained earlier Im not surprised by this. First, due to the time that has passed. And second,  its not 
unusual for a copy of the mortgage application to be kept,  but with an insurance application (such  as 
PPI), it is not uncommon for the application to be sent to the insurer/underwriter of the policy, without 
a copy being retained by the seller of the policy. It is also a possibility that if a copy was kept, given 
over 20 years have passed  it may have since been destroyed.
But National  Counties has provided a sample  copy of a PPI application  form. Whilst I dont know for 
sure if this was a copy of what was in use at the time, and I note Mr and Mrs S concerns  on this point, 
I do think it is indicative of National Counties sales process at the time.
From looking  at the sample PPI application form I can see that there were  various  options to be 
chosen. So who was to be covered, what cover was required, with a choice of Accident  and 
Sickness cover  only,  Unemployment cover only or Accident, Sickness and Unemployment cover.
Consumers also had to complete a bank mandate form setting up a direct debit  to pay for the PPI.
Ref: DRN60443514I can see that there is a letter on file dated 29 November  1996 addressed solely  to Mr S which  states, 
I have the pleasure to acknowledge your application under the Societys  mortgage 
payment protection  insurance.
Please find enclosed the insurance schedule  for your safekeeping, together with a copy of the 
policy document for reference purposes.
You will note that it has been necessary to limit the amount of your monthly benefit to £728.  
Please do not hesitate  to contact me should you wish to discuss any aspect arising.
So it seems  to me, that an application was completed for PPI and for the policy to be in Mr Ss name  
only. Also it seems that a higher monthly benefit was initially requested but had to be limited, for 
which there could have been a number of reasons, but not known in this case. 
Overall, considering Mr and Mrs Ss testimony, what National Counties  has said about its sales 
process and based on the evidence I have seen, I think it is likely  that Mr and Mrs S were  aware  that 
they had a choice about taking out PPI. And they chose to take it out at the level they wanted.
I havent seen anything to suggest National  Counties  assessed Mr and Mrs Ss individual 
circumstances such as their employee benefits or other insurances polices  held, and from this 
provided a tailored recommendation for PPI for Mr S. So, on balance, I think this was most  likely a 
non-advised sale.  This means  National  Counties didnt  have to make sure the policy  was right for 
them. But it had to provide Mr and Mrs S with enough information so they could make an informed 
choice as to whether to take the policy.
Its possible the information National Counties gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied they likely chose to take out the PPI for Mr S only - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been  useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking out the cover for Mr S.
It isnt known, due to the time that has passed whether Mr Ss PPI policy covered  him for Accident  
and Sickness  only, Unemployment  only or both so Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment.
Having looked at this, alongside Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I dont  think   whether  he 
took a part of the PPI policy or was covered  under all elements  would  make a difference  to my 
opinion. I say this because taking a mortgage  is a large, long term financial commitment, and there 
can be serious  consequences if repayments arent met. 
Mr S was the sole income provider  at the time, so I think its possible Mr and Mrs S would have 
thought the cover useful if Mr S was unable  to work for a lengthy period, whether  that was because of 
an accident or sickness or if Mr S lost his job. Overall the PPI could have provided valuable 
protection.
Mr S says he received at least 12 weeks full sick pay from his employer if he was off sick. But the PPI 
in the event of a successful  claim because of an accident or sickness, or if he lost his job would pay 
out for up to 12 months per claim. So, again, I think it provided valuable  protection  in Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S say they held savings of around  £9,000 that they say they could have 
used to meet  their mortgage repayments. But the evidence of the savings they have provided is from 
2002  which is six years  after the sale of PPI. So I dont think I can place too much weight on that 
evidence. 
Ref: DRN60443515I also note within the mortgage application  form Mr and Mrs S had two outstanding  loans with a 
balance totalling  around £15,000 to pay back. So I dont think  in 1996 Mr and Mrs S had the level of 
savings they think they may have had. I dont think there is enough information  to say that Mr and Mrs 
S would not have had a need for the policy  or would  not have found  it useful if something went  wrong.  
And even  if savings were  available the PPI provided them with a security that meant they wouldnt  
have to rely on savings to meet their repayments. Those savings could have been used for something 
else or for their original purpose.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have said - including what they have said about  the sale, 
National Counties not providing  a copy of the PPI application form,  their circumstances  at the time 
and not needing the PPI. But, for the reasons  Ive given  above,  these points dont change  my 
provisional decision.
what else have I considered?
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure  of commission 
where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy   
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer,  then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back  
the amount of commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added  to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came  into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained  that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
National Counties has given me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was taken  out in 
1996 and was redeemed  in 2000. So based on what Ive said above,  I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So National  Counties doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
they had with their mortgage .
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy  wasnt 
mis-sold.
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider  by 
12 May 2019. I will then consider anything I receive and issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6044351