K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent her money that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Ms K took out one loan with Uncle Buck in March 2014 for £100. Ms K says she couldnt 
afford the loan as she wasnt  working  at the time.
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Ks complaint be upheld.   Uncle Buck disagreed  and 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms K could repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Uncle Bucks response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Ms K 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner   not just whether the loan payment was 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN64934322Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  defines in a 
sustainable manner  as being  without  undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring  or 
increasing problem  indebtedness,  over the life of the credit  agreement and out of income 
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their repayments in a sustainable manner if they 
have a history of failing  to settle loans over the life of the credit  agreement.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ks complaint.
Although this was Ms Ks first and only loan with Uncle  Buck, I consider that Uncle  Buck 
should reasonably have  seen that Ms K was unlikely to have been able to make  her loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner.  I say this because the credit search that Uncle Buck  
carried out showed that Ms K had two unsatisfied County Court Judgments (CCJs).  Ms K 
also had three defaults within the previous 12 months.
If Ms K wasnt able to repay money that she owed after court  action had taken place, it 
suggests that she might struggle to repay the loan to Uncle  Buck. Taking the unsatisfied  
CCJs together with Ms Ks three defaults builds  a picture of somebody with financial 
problems who couldnt afford to take on more debt.
I consider Uncle  Buck  had enough information to have realised that Ms K was unlikely to be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. The fact that Ms K hasnt made any payments 
towards the loan seems  to back this up. So I consider its fair and reasonable to uphold  
Ms Ks complaint about the loan.
Although Uncle Buck  says that Ms K hasnt  made  any payments towards the loan, Ive 
included a direction about refunding interest  and charges  just in case it turns  out that Ms K 
has made payments  to the third party  who currently owns the debt.
putting things right
Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges that Ms K has paid on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges on the loan;
If it chooses,  apply, the refund  to any outstanding  principal balance  on the loan before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Ms K**; and
Remove any negative information  about  the loan from Ms Ks credit  file
Ref: DRN64934323If Uncle Buck has sold the remaining debt to a third party  debt purchaser  it should buy it 
back before  doing  what  Ive said above.  If this isnt possible,  Uncle  Buck should (in addition 
to the above if necessary):
Arrange to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of interest  
and charges  including any added  by the third party;
Refund any interest and charges that Ms K has already paid to the third party, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
Instruct  the third party to remove any negative information it may have recorded about 
the loan from Ms Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Ms K a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
Uncle Buck  intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding  balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
**If after taking the above steps there is still a principal balance  due, I remind Uncle Buck  of 
its obligation to treat any repayment offer that Ms K might make, sympathetically and 
reasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right,  Uncle Buck  Finance LLP 
should take the steps outlined in the above  bullet  points. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6493432