K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Revolut Limited have charged a fee for using his card with it to 
withdraw money from current account cash machine. 
background
Last year Mr R says he went to withdraw €3,000 from a cash  machine in the UK due to an 
unexpected emergency. Upon withdrawal,  the cash machine dispensed  less than Mr Rs 
requested amount. When he checked his Revolut  mobile phone app he saw that Revolut 
had charged him a fee for withdrawing the funds.
Mr R is unhappy because  he says he wasnt aware  there was a fee for withdrawing money. 
Mr R says the information about  the fees wasnt  available  to him at the time he withdrew the 
money and has asked for the withdrawal fee to be refunded.
Revolut explained  that a 2% fee is applied to cash withdrawals after the monthly fee-free 
cash withdrawal allocation  has been  used up. As Mr R reached his withdrawal  limit, the fee 
was applied. Revolut  say information  on withdrawal  fees can be found  in the account terms 
and conditions, in the FAQs on their website and also on the Revolut mobile  phone  app. 
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. She concluded  that the fee information was 
readily available on the app and that Revolut hadnt acted unfairly in applying the fee. Mr R 
didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He says that he still 
isnt able to find information about  the fees in the mobile phone app and doesnt agree  that 
the information is readily available, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding it 
and Ill explain why.
Mr R told us he remembered seeing  some  information about the potential fees that could be 
charged when  he first signed  up for the account.
Revolut say when  applying for the card, Mr R was required to create a passcode for his 
Revolut account.  Revolut have sent me a copy of the screenshots  Mr R would have seen 
when creating the passcode.
On this screen it says by creating a passcode,  you agree to our terms and conditions.  Mr R 
would have been able to click on the link to access the terms and conditions.  Revolut have  
provided me with evidence to show the fees and charges were included under a separate 
heading on the first screen after accessing  the terms and conditions. So I think  Mr R ought to 
have been aware  of the terms and conditions of the account as hed agreed to them to be 
able to create a passcode. 
Mr R says he checked the app before withdrawing  the money and was unable  to find 
information on the withdrawal fees. Mr R also says he was in a rush at the time he was 
making the withdrawal.
Ref: DRN69775072Revolut have sent me a copy of screenshots which show the pathway Mr R would have had 
to follow  to access the fee information  on his mobile phone  app. I note that weve told Mr R 
about this pathway but he says he no longer has an account with Revolut so is unable to tell 
us if he can now find this information. I appreciate Mr R says he couldnt find the information 
on the day in question,  but based on everything  Ive seen, I can see this information 
wouldve been available to him at the time. And if Mr R wasnt sure, I think he couldve 
contacted Revolut before continuing  with the withdrawal.
Mr R says although he couldnt find the withdrawal  fee information  he decided  to continue 
with the withdrawal anyway. Mr R says he needed the money due to an unexpected  
emergency and that when  the cash machine showed it would be dispensing less than the 
requested amount, Mr R says he proceeded because  he needed the money  immediately. So 
on balance, I think its more likely than not, Mr R wouldve still withdrawn the money even  if 
he knew the withdrawal  fee amount. I say this because  Mr R says he needed the money  
straight away as it was for an emergency. 
Ive had a look at the fees and pricing  information in the terms and conditions. I can see they 
say for the type of account  Mr R held ATM Withdrawals up to €200 or currency  
equivalent per month are free. Anything over the above limits is charged  at 2% of value  of 
ATM Withdrawal. Based on this, Im satisfied  Revolut have applied the withdrawal fee fairly 
in this case.
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut havent done  anything wrong and I dont think  Revolut acted 
unfairly in charging  the withdrawal fee.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6977507