K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt implement her request to put a block  on her 
joint mortgage, with the result  that her former partner was able to drawdown further funds 
and increase the mortgage balance.
background
Ms R and her former partner  whos not a party to this complaint  have a joint mortgage 
with Santander.  The mortgage is on interest only terms  and includes a flexible drawdown 
facility.
In late 2018, Ms Rs former partner withdrew  about £3,000 from the mortgage  balance. Ms R 
then withdrew the same  amount.  Once  shed done  so, she contacted Santander. She told it 
they had separated and asked for a further  block to be placed on withdrawals without both 
parties agreement.
Santander agreed it would place the block on the account. But in early  2019, Ms Rs former 
partner contacted Santander  and requested  three further drawdowns, totalling  around 
£25,000. Some of the money was paid into their joint bank account, but most was paid into 
his personal account.
When Ms R saw the money arrive  into the joint account, she contacted  Santander to find out 
what had happened. It agreed that it should have placed a block on further  withdrawals 
when shed asked  it to do so. It managed to recover some of the money  drawn down. But it 
said around £12,000 had already been transferred out of Santander and couldnt be 
recovered. It said there was nothing  more it could do, and it was now a civil dispute  between 
Ms R and her former partner that it couldnt get involved in. It offered £100  compensation for 
allowing the withdrawals  when Ms R had requested a block  on the account.
Our investigator upheld  Ms Rs complaint to us about what had happened.  She said that 
Santander should pay a further  £250 compensation. And she said it should separate  the 
£12,000 drawdown from the rest of the mortgage  and not hold Ms R jointly  and severally 
liable for it.
Santander didnt  agree. It said that when the mortgage was taken out in 2006, both parties 
agreed that both would be responsible  for funds either withdrew.  It said this was a dispute 
between Ms R and her former partner. Under the mortgage terms and conditions  both 
parties were  jointly liable for all borrowing and this was a civil dispute between  the two of 
them that Ms R would need  to get legal advice  about. So the case comes  to me for a final 
decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the mortgage terms and conditions, which do allow drawdowns using 
the flexible facility. The terms dont specify whether Santander requires the consent  of one or 
both parties when making changes to the mortgage. 
But Santander is right that both parties signed a declaration, in 2006, which  said:
Ref: DRN63675592Any of you may operate the account; this will include  making withdrawals from the 
available funds facility  which  will increase the amount owed which  is secured on your 
home.
If you make  withdrawals without the agreement  of the other borrower,  you are all 
liable for the increased money borrowed
The purpose of this form was to seek  their agreement for the mortgage  to be managed  
online, and to warn  of the consequences  of agreeing to that.
However, it does make  clear that withdrawals can be made by either party   and that both is 
liable for them.
I dont think this is the end of the matter, though. That form was signed  in 2006 when the 
mortgage started and Ms R and her former partner were still together.  Twelve years on, they 
separated.
And, just as in 2006 Santander told them either could  make withdrawals alone, in 2018  it told 
Ms R that it was now blocking that facility and further changes  could only be made  jointly.
I think that was a fair thing to do. When a couple  separate, one of the issues they have to 
resolve is their joint finances. While I agree with Santander that it cant  get involved in any 
dispute between  them, I think  it does have a responsibility, in fairness, to protect  both parties 
by not allowing the mortgage balance to increase without both their agreement  until the 
financial issues following  the separation are resolved.
I dont think Santander  has any responsibility  for the withdrawals in 2018. It wasnt,  at that 
stage, on notice of any dispute between Ms R and her former partner. And it seems that both 
have withdrawn the same amount.
However, once Santander  was on notice  I think it should have taken steps  to prevent further 
withdrawals without the explicit consent  of both parties  as indeed it told Ms R it would do.
It should have  acted on that and placed  a block on the account so that no further 
withdrawals could be made by one party  acting  alone. If it had done that, the withdrawals  
wouldnt have happened, and the mortgage  balance would be £12,000 lower than it now is.
I dont think its fair that Ms R is held liable for further borrowing that she didnt agree to and 
that she specifically  instructed  Santander not to allow, and which  it promised it would 
prevent.
So Santander will need  to find a way to separate this part of the mortgage balance  and not 
hold Ms R jointly and severally liable for this part of the capital balance or the interest 
charged on it. It shouldnt be part of the joint mortgage. But its reasonable for it to remain  
secured over the jointly owned property, since the property secures both Ms Rs borrowing 
and her former partners  borrowing.  How this further  borrowing affects  the ownership of the 
property and each  partys shares  in it is a matter for Ms R and her former partner to resolve 
between them. Ms R might want to take legal advice about  that.
Finally, Im satisfied that Santanders failure  to implement  the agreed block, allowing further 
withdrawals without Ms Rs consent, caused her real upset. I note Santander has offered 
£100 compensation, and I think a further  £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN63675593my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Separate the additional £12,523 from the main mortgage account  and not hold Ms R 
jointly and severally liable for this sum or the interest charged  on it;
Pay Ms R £350  compensation (including the £100 already offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6367559