K821x#15Complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt change her address  after she moved  
abroad. Miss M also complains that her credit card account was defaulted after she had 
difficulties receiving statements and making  payments.  
Background
Miss M opened a Vanquis credit card in 2013.  In 2015 she moved abroad. Miss M says she 
had trouble making payments to her credit card from abroad.  Miss M says she had to 
transfer funds from a foreign account  into her UK current account which meant  she had to 
pay fees each  time.  
In September  2016 Miss M spoke with Vanquis and asked it to stop sending statements  to 
the address it had on file for her. Vanquis  told Miss M she could amend her correspondence  
choice online so statements would be sent over the internet. Miss M has told us that Vanquis  
continued to write to her at the address it had registered. 
Payments werent maintained so the Vanquis  moved to default the account in February 2017 
and reported that to the credit reference  agencies. 
Miss M complained to Vanquis and it responded on 22 November 2018. Vanquis agreed it 
should have taken a forwarding address from Miss M when she called  in to discuss the 
information being sent to her old home and sent her a cheque for £60. But Vanquis said the 
default had been correctly  registered because payments werent  made. 
Miss M referred  the complaint to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator to look at. 
He upheld the complaint because he thought Vanquis has missed the chance to take a 
correspondence address from Miss M when she called about  her account. But he thought 
the decision to default the credit card was reasonable and didnt ask Vanquis  to cover 
Miss Ms costs for making payments whilst abroad. Vanquis agreed to pay a total of £250  to 
resolve Miss Ms complaint but she asked to appeal so her case  has been passed  to me to 
make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M says that she had to pay fees for transferring money to the UK in order to pay her 
credit card bill each  month. Shes explained that other businesses  made  it easier for her to 
make payments.
I understand Miss Ms point and that Vanquis  may have offered fewer  options than other 
businesses for customers living abroad. But, Vanquis is free to decide how it accepts  
payments. And whilst I understand Miss M had moved abroad, she still had to make  the 
monthly credit card payment in line with the terms. Ive listened to calls Miss M had with 
Vanquis when  payment  methods were  discussed. In November 2015 Vanquis  gave Miss M 
details of how to make a payment from an international account.  Whilst I accept that making 
payments from abroad may have come  with a cost attached,  I dont think  it would be fair to 
tell Vanquis to refund them. 
Ref: DRN69375852Miss M has explained that she wasnt receiving statements and she no longer resided at the 
address Vanquis  had on file. I agree that several  chances to take a forwarding or 
correspondence address for statements and important information  were missed. But I have 
to balance that against the November 2016  call Ive listened to. During that call the advisor 
explained that Miss M could switch to receiving  bank statements online. Vanquis says that 
Miss Ms statements were also sent to her online. So whilst I agree that the address  details  
should have been checked  and changed,  statements  do appear to have  been  available to 
Miss M. 
Ive considered Vanquis decision  to default Miss Ms credit card and Im satisfied it was fair. 
Unfortunately, several payments hadnt  been made. The account terms allow Vanquis to 
default the credit card in those circumstances. I know Miss M had some problems making 
payments whilst abroad but she still needed  to ensure they were made. And there were 
options available to Miss M to do that. 
Miss M says two of the credit reference agencies record her account  as in default  but 
another says its just closed and settled. Vanquis has sent us evidence of the information it 
reports to the credit  reference agency  and I can see it says Miss Ms account  defaulted  in 
February 2017. I dont  know  why one of the credit reference agencies  hasnt reported that, 
but Im satisfied Vanquis has provided  the right information. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss M but I havent  found that Vanquis unfairly  applied  a default  to 
her credit card. I also havent found anything to show  Vanquis made  a mistake when 
reporting information about Miss Ms credit card to the credit  reference agencies. I do agree 
that Vanquis should have stopped  corresponding with Miss M at the registered address after 
she notified it she was no longer a resident there.  Vanquis has agreed to pay a total of £250. 
I think that fairly reflects the impact of Vanquis  error  so Im going to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Vanquis Bank Limited  to pay Miss M a 
total of £250 less any compensation already  paid.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March   2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6937585