K820x#14complaint
Mrs As complaint is about a mortgage she and her late ex-husband (Mr S) had with TSB 
Bank plc. She is unhappy that she wasnt kept informed about the status of the mortgage 
and wasnt consulted about a payment arrangement TSB agreed  with Mr S. Mrs A would like 
the adverse data recorded on her credit  file due to the arrears  to be removed. She is also 
unhappy with how her complaint was handled.
Mrs A is represented in her complaint, but for ease,  I will refer to all comments and 
submissions as being Mrs As.
background
Mrs A and Mr S took out a joint 25-year mortgage with TSB to buy their family home. The 
mortgage was paid by direct  debit from a joint account in Mrs A and Mr S names.  Up to 
2014 Mrs A and Mr S made several lump sum payments to the mortgage and also made  
regular overpayments. The regular overpayments were cancelled by Mr S in September 
2014. 
The following  September Mr S called TSB and explained that he was having  cashflow  
problems and he wanted to discuss stopping making  payments for three months.  He was 
told he and Mrs A would  need to complete  an income and expenditure exercise for TSB to 
be able to make a decision on the request. He said he would call back, but he didnt until 
January of 2016. At that point Mr S asked  to change the bank account the monthly  payments 
would be taken from and he told TSB about  a change of address for himself. As it was close 
to the date the direct debit would be collected,  TSB explained it couldnt change the direct 
debit in time. As there were insufficient funds in Mrs A and Mr S joint account, the direct  
debit payment failed,  but Mr S made the payment by card. The change  of address was 
confirmed in writing to both Mrs A and Mr S at their respective addresses. Mr S also gave 
TSB details  for a bank account in his sole name for future mortgage payments to be 
collected from.
Mrs A telephoned TSB in April 2016 about  the change in payment arrangements.  There  are 
no notes of this call on TSBs contact notes  and it has been unable  to trace the call when  we 
have asked it to. Mrs A says she told TSB that she and Mr S were  getting divorced and there 
was a dispute about their finances. However,  when TSB listened to the call in July 2016 and 
made notes  about  its content, it was detailed that Mrs A hadnt  mentioned  divorce or 
separation and when asked if there was a marital  dispute, she had said no. 
At the beginning  of July 2016, Mrs A and Mr S were  informed by their bank that it hadnt 
paid the mortgage payment because there wasnt enough money in the bank account. 
Shortly thereafter, Mr S called TSB to cancel the direct debit mandate.  He asked that the 
overpayment pot of around  £7,500  be used to cover the mortgage payments  for the next four 
months. This was agreed and no further  mortgage payments were made until January 2017.
On 29 July 2016 Mrs A contacted TSB about  the mortgage. She told it the direct  debit 
mandate shouldnt  have  been cancelled as TSB was aware there was a marital dispute, 
thereby needing  both parties consent  to make changes to the mortgage. TSB confirmed 
there was no marker on the account  and sent Mrs A a new direct debit mandate  for her and 
Mr S to sign. 
Ref: DRN63606592In relation to Mrs As concern about the missing marital dispute marker,  this was looked  into 
separately. A member of staff listened to a recording of the call from April 2016. She 
telephoned Mrs A back the same  day and confirmed that there  had been  no mention during 
the April call of divorce  or separation. Also, Mrs A had been specifically asked whether there 
was a marital dispute and she had said there wasnt. 
Again, on 29 July 2016, Mrs As solicitor wrote  to TSB to inform it that Mrs A and Mrs S were 
divorcing. It said it had come to Mrs As attention in April 2016 that Mr S had instructed TSB 
to cancel the direct debit  mandate  from the joint account and changed it to an account in his 
individual name without Mrs As approval. It went on to say that Mrs A had asked TSB to 
reinstate the direct  debit on the joint account. She had also asked for all correspondence  to 
be sent to both parties at their relevant addresses. As such,  the solicitors said that Mrs A 
wanted to know  why she hadnt  been  told Mr S had cancelled the direct debit paying the 
mortgage and that the overpayments previously made were to be used to pay the mortgage  
over the following months. The solicitors  told TSB not to do anything further with the 
mortgage account unless it had both parties consent.
In November 2016 Mrs A and Mr S were divorced. As part of the divorce settlement the 
judge had ordered that the mortgaged property  be sold forthwith, but in the meantime, Mr S 
was to make  the mortgage payments. The property was put on the market at the time,  but it 
didnt sell.
Mortgage payments  started to be made again from January 2017 but were made by Mr S by 
card rather  than by direct  debit. The last such payment was received in October  2017  and 
neither Mrs A nor Mr S paid anything toward the mortgage debt thereafter. 
In November 2017 Mr S contacted TSB to explain that he had been diagnosed with a 
serious illness and this illness was impacting on his ability to work, so his income was likely 
to reduce. Following assessment of the medical evidence  and an income and expenditure 
exercise, TSB agreed that no mortgage  payments needed to be made until January 2018. 
Confirmation of the arrangement appears to only have been sent to Mr S address. 
In January 2018 Mr S asked to extend the nil payment arrangement. TSB was told Mrs A 
and Mr S had agreed to reduce  the asking price  and change  estate  agents.  The payment 
arrangement was extended to March 2018 and confirmation was sent to Mr S address.
Mrs A has subsequently explained  that when they changed estate agent,  theyd  been  told to 
tidy the place up, including fixing the leaking roof.  Arguments between Mrs A and Mr S 
delayed the sale and offers were received but had been turned down.
A few days  later, some  automated correspondence was sent by TSB to both Mrs A and Mr S 
at their respective  addresses. These  letters concerned the arrears on the account.  A similar 
arrears statement was sent to Mr S and Mrs As addresses in April 2018. 
Mr S responded to the April 2018  arrears  statement. He confirmed the mortgage was 
unaffordable and the property had to be sold, but that Mrs A was refusing to agree to it being 
sold. As such, the matter would be considered by the courts  around ten days later.  
At the end of May 2018, Mrs A contacted TSB. Unfortunately,  she failed security  and so it 
couldnt discuss the account with her. However,  she told TSB that shes only just become 
aware her ex-husband hadnt  been  paying the mortgage and that there were arrears  on the 
account. 
Ref: DRN63606593Mrs A has provided a letter she wrote as a follow-up to the failed telephone call. In it she 
said she was disappointed  that she hadnt been  told about the arrears until five months had 
passed and complained that she hadnt  been  kept up to date with what was happening  with 
the account. She asked various  questions  and requested she be given three months  to settle 
the arrears. Unfortunately,  this letter was sent to a PO Box address and Mrs A used the 
wrong postcode.  It doesnt appear that TSB received the letter.  
A further  arrears statement was sent to both Mrs A and Mr S at their respective addresses at 
the beginning of July 2018.  In response, Mrs As solicitor contacted  TSB and provided  it with 
a copy of Mrs As May 2018 letter. It chased  a response to the May letter some ten days 
later and asked TSB to provide  either  a fax number or email  address for correspondence.
Mr S informed TSB on 10 August 2018 that a court order  had been  issued  to force  the sale 
of the property. He also told TSB that he was still unable  to work due to his poor health.  
At the end of September  2018, a further arrears statement  was issued to both Mrs A and 
Mr S addresses. Mrs A called TSB a few days later and said she was very unhappy that the 
account was in arrears  and that shed not been notified about the situation. She said shed  
been sending  TSB letters  about  the mortgage  since 2014 but had had no response. Mrs A 
advised that Mr S had been ordered by the court to pay the mortgage.  She has since found  
out there was a credit on the account which had been used to make payments and now 
there were arrears on the account. She said she was upset her credit  file had been 
impacted. Mrs A said she hadnt received  any correspondence from TSB and asked it to 
provide mortgage  statements for the account  starting in June 2014. Mrs As concerns were 
logged as a complaint. 
In October  2018 Mr S informed TSB that an offer had been accepted on the house. 
However, he was still unable to make  any mortgage  payments. 
In November 2018 Mrs As solicitors  chased up a response to her concerns about the 
mortgage. It confirmed  the house was being sold. 
Again, at the beginning  of December 2018,  Mrs A called TSB as she was unhappy about her 
credit file being impacted by the arrears on the mortgage. TSB added  that concern to the 
existing complaint under investigation. On the same day Mrs As solicitors wrote to TSB 
enclosing a letter of authority allowing TSB to communicate with it on Mrs As behalf.  It said 
it was unacceptable  that the previous letters  hadnt been responded to. 
TSB responded to Mrs As complaint in January 2019. It said that it hadnt  received her letter 
of May 2018  when  she originally sent it and the first it was aware  of the letter was when the 
solicitors forwarded a copy in November 2018. It also confirmed  that, although it was normal  
procedure, it hadnt sent her a copy of the payment  arrangement  letters.  That said, it didnt 
agree that Mrs As credit  file should  be altered as Mrs A and Mr S were jointly and severally 
liable for the mortgage. It explained that its normal process was that if there were missed 
payments, any overpayments already on the account would  be used to cover  them.  It would 
only be after the overpayments  ran out that account would fall into arrears. It said Mrs A was 
provided with statements  showing  the transactions on the account. 
However, TSB apologised  for how long it took to deal with the complaint and her not 
receiving holding letters while it investigated. In recognition of the upset and stress this may 
have caused it paid £250 and a further  £50 for any costs (calls, visits to a branch etc.) Mrs A 
may have  incurred. 
Ref: DRN63606594Later that month  Mrs A arranged bridging  finance for in excess  of £1.3 million.  This money  
was used to repay the TSB mortgage,  buy Mr S share of the property and complete some  
renovations to the house. In addition,  the funds were  to provide Mrs A the costs of arranging  
a rental  property for herself, which she said was needed due to the problems  the mortgage 
arrears had caused with her credit file.
Mrs As solicitors  contacted TSB around the same  time and informed it that the complaint 
response letter hadnt been  received, although it had received the compensation cheque 
that had been sent separately. A copy  of the complaint response was sent to the solicitors  
and a second copy sent to Mrs A at her home  address.  TSB also confirmed the original copy  
of the complaint response had been  returned to it unopened. 
Mrs A didnt accept TSBs findings and said the failure to obtain  her agreement to any 
payment arrangement was the initial cause  of the difficulties shed had because of the effect 
it had on her credit file. She said TSB should have obtained her consent to the payment  
arrangements from the end of 2017 and if she had known about the situation, she could 
have taken steps to secure her position. She highlighted that shed  made all other 
payments on time to avoid a negative credit  rating.  Due to the mortgage  arrears Mrs A said 
couldnt obtain an alternative  mortgage  and had to arrange bridging finance to pay off the 
TSB mortgage. 
Mrs As letter was not responded to and nor was the correspondence from her solicitors 
emailed to TSB in March  2019. Despite responses  being chased, none were  received, and 
the complaint  was referred to this service at the end of May 2019.  In doing so Mrs A 
requested that her legal  fees in dealing with TSB about the issues  be paid and that the costs 
associated with the loans shed needed to take out be refunded, as but for the incorrect 
information recorded in her credit file, the borrowing wouldnt have cost as much.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld  in part. He 
concluded that TSB had been unaware of a marital dispute when Mr S had instructed it to 
use the overpayments to cover the mortgage  payments.  As such,  TSB hadnt  needed Mrs 
As consent for this action and hadnt needed to write to her about it. However, as TSB had 
been told about a marital dispute in July 2017, it shouldnt have agreed to a payment 
arrangement in November 2017 without her involvement. Had it written to her about the 
situation, she would have had the opportunity  to make the mortgage payments  herself  and 
thereby avoid negative information  being added to her credit file. 
The investigator recommended  that TSB amend Mrs As credit  file to remove any mention of 
arrears up until she was sent the first arrears statement in January 2018  and it should pay 
her £150  for any upset  or inconvenience this had caused her. Thereafter, Mrs A had been  
aware of the arrears  and could have acted  to mitigate any detriment to herself.  As she hadnt 
done so, the investigator considered the record of the arrears accrued thereafter should 
remain on her credit  file. He also considered the compensation payment already made was 
appropriate and should be maintained in the event Mrs A hadnt cashed the cheque  TSB had 
sent her. 
TSB accepted the investigators conclusions.  It confirmed that a cheque  had been  sent to 
Mrs A for the £300 it had offered, but if she hadnt  cashed it, it would be replaced. 
Mrs A didnt accept the investigators view and said she thought  her credit file should  have  
all record of the arrears removed. She questioned  whether the arrears notification of January 
Ref: DRN636065952018 had been sent and stated that TSB had failed in its duty to her before that. In addition, 
she said that she didnt  think  one letter was enough  to draw her attention to the existence of 
arrears, when she hadnt previously been kept up to date on what was happening to the 
mortgage. It was stated the damage  to Mrs As credit file in addition, had already occurred 
before she was notified of the arrears,  so TSBs failing to tell her about the payment 
arrangement from November 2017 prevented her from stopping that damage happening in 
the first place. 
Furthermore, Mrs A believes that the arrears notification of January 2018 didnt contain  
enough information for her to act immediately  to settle the arrears. She highlighted that when 
she had asked questions  about the arrears, she hadnt been given a response. It was put 
forward it would be unfair to consider she should have dealt with the arrears without the 
answers to her questions. Mrs A also raised a new point; that she considered TSB 
communicating by letter was unreasonable and it should have communicated  with her by 
email and/or  telephone. She said that on numerous  occasions her solicitors had called TSB 
to clarify matters, but no-one was able to assist despite TSB having  invited  Mrs A to call it if 
she had any questions about the arrears.  Our investigator was asked to reconsider his 
conclusions about  the amendment of Mrs As credit file.
The investigator considered Mrs As further comments, but they didnt alter his conclusion. 
He remained satisfied  that Mrs A could  have taken action in response to the arrears 
notification in January  2018. Mrs A remained unhappy with the investigators view. She said 
that she couldnt understand how the earlier  records of the arrears (November and 
December 2017) could be erased, but not the later ones; she said,  if you kill the roots of a 
weed then the whole weed dies. She maintained that she considered TSB was responsible  
for the losses she had suffered.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
Mrs A made further submissions about  her credit file. She said the arrears  being noted on 
the credit  file was continuing to have an impact  on her ability  to obtain  a mortgage and asked 
that TSB be told to remove the adverse records. She also provided  a letter from a mortgage 
broker dated October 2019  (almost nine months  after the TSB mortgage was redeemed), 
which said it had been unable to arrange a re-mortgage for Mrs A because of the TSB 
mortgage arrears on her credit file.
The investigator asked  for some  additional information. Mrs A confirmed that she didnt have 
the funds to clear  the arrears when she became aware of them.  She told us she concluded  
the only way she had of doing  so was to sell the property.  She said if shed known about the 
arrears earlier,  it would have been easier  to clear them because the amount involved would 
have been smaller and her credit file wouldnt  have  been affected  as badly. Mrs A provided a 
letter from a friend saying that the friend had lent Mrs A money to pay the legal bill for the 
divorce and would have lent more to pay the arrears  on the mortgage  too, had Mrs A asked. 
Mrs A went  on to explain why she felt TSBs failures  to keep her informed of what  was 
happening with the mortgage  meant  it was responsible  for everything recorded on her credit 
file and all the losses shed incurred because of those records.
Our investigator considered Mrs As further  comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. He said that although TSB didnt respond to Mrs As letter of May 2018  when it 
received a copy of it, Mrs A hadnt  followed through with what  she said shed do  she made 
no attempt to make any payments toward  the mortgage. The investigator wasnt persuaded 
Ref: DRN63606596there was any evidence that Mrs A had been  in a position to have addressed the arrears  if 
shes known Mr S wasnt able to make the mortgage  payments from November 2017.  In the 
circumstances, TSB wasnt wrong  to report the arrears. 
Mrs A again  didnt accept  the investigators opinion.  She reiterated why she considered TSB 
was to blame for her financial losses. She requested  that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
Mrs A made further comment having received further information, she said she thought  that 
TSB should have  placed a marital dispute  marker  on the mortgage account when it was told 
Mrs A and Mr S were  living at different  addresses.  Had the marker  been placed on the 
account when  Mrs A thinks it should  have been, it would have been in place before Mr S 
asked to use the overpayments to cover  the monthly mortgage payments. She also said that 
this service should obtain and listen to her call with TSB in April 2016 (which is detailed  
above). She commented that it was troubling  that neither a written record  or a recording of 
the April 2016  telephone  call was provided to her as part of her DSAR  to TSB. Mrs A put 
forward that if the call recording couldnt  be provided, we should find in her favour about the 
content of the conversation.
It was reiterated that Mrs A hadnt  received the arrears  statement of January 2018. She 
believed TSB should have  made more effort to inform her about  the arrears.  It was also 
again highlighted that Mrs A should have been told about the payment arrangements that 
had been agreed. In response to the investigators  comments about Mrs A having made no 
attempt to pay the arrears  or the ongoing  mortgage payments, she believed  he had ignored 
the numerous telephone  calls, letters and emails sent by her and her solicitors requesting 
information about how the arrears  arose.  It was put forward that these communications were  
intended to be the first step in a dialogue  with TSB to reduce the arrears  by obtaining 
information to properly assess the situation. Mrs A said six attempts to communicate about 
the arrears had been made between April 2018 and when  TSB issued its complaint 
response letter and fault must be found  with it.
Mrs A also said she thought TSB should  have actively contacted  her to invite her to make  
proposals to clear the arrears when both the first and second payment  arrangements were 
agreed. The marital  dispute marker  should have made  TSB aware  of the need  to speak to 
both parties. Mrs A also said that the investigator had misunderstood her earlier comments  
about being able to pay the arrears in May 2018. It was a case  of her being unable  to pay 
the amount of arrears that had accrued by that time, but would have been able to clear the 
arrears in March 2018, had she been aware  of them. No financial evidence was provided to 
support this statement, although  Mrs A said she could have afforded to take over the 
monthly mortgage payments from her income. Alternatively, she said she could have taken 
Mr S to court to make  him pay the mortgage or asked the court  to make a family owned 
business increase  the amount paid to Mrs A to allow her to pay the mortgage. in addition, 
she would  have had the option to have borrowed the money from her friend or taken out a 
loan. She also questioned  whether Mr S really couldnt have afforded to pay the mortgage in 
the months before his death.
On 11 June 2021 I issued a provisional  decision setting out my conclusions about  Mrs As 
complaint and my reasons for reaching  them. Below  is an excerpt.
I will firstly deal with the matter of when  the marital dispute marker  should have been added 
to the mortgage  account. Mrs A has said she now believes  TSB being told that she and Mr S 
were living at different  addresses was enough  for a marker to be added  to the account. I 
Ref: DRN63606597dont agree and I believe  it would have  been entirely  inappropriate for TSB to have made 
any assumptions about the status  of Mrs A and Mr S relationship based on that single piece 
of information.  Firstly,  a couple having correspondence sent to different addresses doesnt 
necessarily indicate  anything about the relationship  one might  simply be living closer to a 
place of work. In addition,  even if TSB had been  aware the different addresses were 
because Mrs A and Mr S had separated and were  divorcing, that doesnt  mean  the 
relationship was acrimonious and there was any form of dispute between  them.  It is for them 
to inform TSB if there  were problems that might affect the running  of the account. 
Mrs A has said she told TSB that there was a marital dispute  in April 2016 when she spoke 
to it. Unfortunately, there are no notes about  the call from the time and TSB and the previous 
lender have been unable  to locate the call recording. This is unfortunate, but given some 
time had passed  when  it was requested, its not entirely surprising the call isnt still available. 
Mrs A has said this should mean that her recollections of the content of the call should be 
accepted. However,  I need to take into account  all evidence about the call available.  The 
former lender accessed the call recording three months after it was made  and discussed  it 
with Mrs A. The contemporaneous notes from the second call detailed  that there  had been 
no mention of separation or divorce  in the April call and that Mrs A had specifically been 
asked if there was a marital dispute,  to which she had answered no. Whilst a transcript  of 
the call doesnt  appear to have been sent to Mrs A as she requested,  Im not persuaded Mrs 
A would have left the matter in abeyance  if she had disagreed with what shes been told. 
As such,  I am satisfied that TSB added the marital dispute marker  to the mortgage account 
when it should  have  in July 2017  when it was first told about the situation. As such, it did 
nothing wrong  when it acted on Mr S sole instructions to use the overpayments  to service  
the contractual payments.  
However, there was a marital dispute  marker on the account when Mr S told it his 
deteriorated health situation  meant he couldnt work and so his income  had dropped 
significantly. So, TSB should  have  told Mrs A about  the payment  arrangement  it had been 
asked to agree at the end of 2017. 
Where a financial business has made an error,  we will consider what  we think  likely would 
have happened  had the error not occurred. In this case, that would mean  Mrs A having  been 
told in November 2017 that Mr A wasnt able to pay the mortgage. 
I note that Mrs A has questioned whether Mr S was telling the truth about his financial 
situation at the time. It isnt possible to know whether Mrs As suspicions are reasonable, 
given Mr S died from his illness slightly over a year later. That said, as there hadnt been any 
previous history of poor management  of the account, it seems unlikely that Mr S lied to TSB 
about his financial  situation, especially in light of the fact that not paying the mortgage would 
have the same impact  on him and his finances,  as it has had on Mrs A. As an individual  
running a family business, that impact  could have caused significant difficulties. So, I am 
going to move forward on this case on the basis that Mr S told TSB the truth;  that he was 
unable to afford to pay the mortgage.
It is always difficult to determine  what would have happened in a hypothetical situation. I 
cant use hindsight when  doing so. In this case I consider a good indication of the what 
would have happened, is what did happen when Mrs A did become aware of the situation.  I 
consider this would  have  been in January 2018. Although Mrs A has said she didnt receive 
the arrears statement in January 2018, it was sent to the correct address and there is no 
evidence (as there was with the final response  letter a year later) that it was returned  to TSB 
Ref: DRN63606598undelivered. Whilst some post does go astray, the majority is delivered when it is correctly 
addressed, as the letter from TSB was. As such,  I think it more  likely than not that Mrs A did 
receive that letter, although she may not have realised its importance at the time.
Mrs A has said the arrears statement in January 2018 wasnt enough to make  her aware of 
the situation with the mortgage.  I would agree that it would not have made  her aware  of the 
payment arrangement that had been  agreed by TSB, but I dont think there is any doubt that 
the statement  would have made  her aware  the mortgage wasnt being paid and money was 
owed. Mrs A was invited to telephone TSB to discuss the arrears  and a put forward  a plan to 
remedy the situation. She didnt do so.
Mrs A was sent a quarterly arrears statement from January 2018. I am aware that she was 
out of the country for a period between the first two statements being sent, but it was not 
until the end of May 2018 that Mrs A reacted to the situation. At that time, she wrote  a letter 
asking questions and proposing to deal with the arrears  herself,  if TSB could give her three 
months to do so, but unfortunately  the letter was sent to an incorrect  address  and it wasnt 
received by TSB.
I note that Mrs A has recently  said by the time she attempted to contacted  TSB about the 
arrears she was unable  to deal with them because  of the amount that had accrued. 
However, the amount was significantly less when  she was first told about  the arrears  and 
she did nothing to address them at that point either. In addition,  it appears that in May 2018  
Mrs A thought she could  afford to deal with the arrears and asked TSB to give her three 
months to put plans  in place. 
I note that Mrs As firm of solicitors  contacted  TSB several times in 2018 to chase up Mrs A 
being given a response to her letter of May 2018. However, I note that TSB didnt receive 
Mrs As authority to deal with the solicitors until December 2018 and Mrs A didnt contact 
TSB by telephone  until October 2018. At that time, she complained  about  the impact  the 
arrears had had on her credit file and complained about the situation, but again she made no 
offer to make any payments to the mortgage in the form of monthly  payments or to address 
the arrears. It was the same when she telephoned TSB in December 2018.
I acknowledge that Mrs A didnt receive a response  from TSB to her initial  letter about the 
arrears, but neither did she contact it again  with any offers to either deal with the arrears or 
to stop them  increasing by making the mortgage payments. Mrs A has mentioned throughout 
her correspondence  with this service  and with TSB that Mr S had been ordered by the court 
to make the monthly  mortgage payments. That may be the case, but the court  ordering that 
to happen, doesnt alter the mortgage  contract. It would  also not affect how TSB would treat 
a customer in financial difficulties  if Mr S was unable to afford  the mortgage payments, 
TSB couldnt have  made him make those payments. 
Having considered all of the evidence  in this case,  I am not persuaded that had TSB told 
Mrs A about  Mr S payment arrangement in November 2017, it would have made a 
difference to the situation. I am satisfied that no further monthly payments would have  been  
made to the mortgage and arrears wouldnt have  accrued.
As TSB and our investigator have  explained,  the mortgage is a joint account  and so both 
parties are responsible  for it. Lenders who report information to credit reference agencies  
have a responsibility to ensure that information is accurate, so it was appropriate for the 
payment arrangements  and arrears to be reported to credit  reference agencies by TSB and, 
reported against both Mr S and Mrs As names,  as they were both responsible for the 
Ref: DRN63606599mortgage account. The court order didnt remove Mrs As responsibility  under the mortgage  
contract, including  the need  to ensure  the contractual mortgage payments were  made.  In 
light of this, I dont consider TSB should  alter the record of the mortgage  arrears on Mrs As 
credit file.
Although I havent  found that, had TSB made Mrs A aware of the payment arrangement in 
November 2017  it would  have altered the situation thereafter, it is clear  TSB made  a mistake 
in not doing so. That mistake has clearly caused  Mrs A upset  and frustration. I agree with 
our investigator that TSB should  pay Mrs A £150  in recognition of the effect its mistake 
caused. 
TSB offered Mrs A £250 for upset its poor administration of her complaint, while it was 
investigating, and £50 for any communication costs she incurred  because  of that poor 
handling. That offer appears to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs A has asked  that TSB be required to pay her solicitors fees and the cost of the bridging 
finance because  she was unable to obtain  cheaper lending because  of what TSB had 
reported on her credit  file. As I havent found  TSB did anything  wrong  in relation to reporting 
on Mrs As credit file, I am unable to find it responsible for any costs she incurred with the 
bridging finance.
As for solicitors fees, I am again not going to require TSB to reimburse  those costs.  Whilst 
Mrs A may have chosen  to communicate with TSB and this service through  her solicitors, I 
am not persuaded the matter needed the involvement of solicitors.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I only intend  to uphold this complaint in part. If my conclusions 
remain the same after any further  submissions from the parties, I will require TSB Bank  plc 
to pay Mrs A £150 compensation for its mistake in not communicating about the payment 
arrangements from November 2017.
TSB confirmed receipt of my provisional decision.  It asked for clarification on whether it was 
required to make any changes to Mrs As credit  file, as had been recommended  by our 
investigator.
Mrs A didnt accept my provisional  decision. She said this was because of the reasons shed 
already made before I considered the complaint.  She provided a brief reiteration of those  
reasons and supporting documentation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A said that it was not clear why I hadnt, as the investigator had, ordered  TSB to alter 
her credit file for the period between November 2017 and January  2018. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, had Mrs A known about the monthly payments not being  paid two 
months earlier than I am satisfied she did know, I wasnt persuaded it would have made a 
difference to whether the contractual payments would have been made. I concluded this as, 
even after Mrs A was aware  the monthly payments werent being made, no further payments 
were made to the mortgage. As such,  the missed payments  from November 2017  would 
Ref: DRN636065910always have been  missed and so should  rightly be reported on Mrs As credit file as a joint 
mortgagor.
As neither party have  provided any new evidence or submissions, I see no reason to alter 
my conclusions about this complaint. 
In response to TSBs request for clarity, I do not require it to make any alterations to Mrs As 
credit file. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs A £150 compensation for its mistake in not 
communicating about the payment arrangements from November 2017. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my 
decision before  23 August  2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6360659