K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Advantage Insurance Company  Limited unfairly calculated an 
additional premium  for her motor insurance  policy  after her circumstances changed.
In bringing this complaint Miss Bs been  helped  by her mum. But, for ease, in this decision I 
will refer to both of their comments as being from Miss B.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Miss B has had a number  of polices with Advantage. After  she changed address and job in 
2018 Advantage charged her an additional premium of around £288 for the three months 
remaining on her policy term. Ms B said if that increase in premium was applied across  the 
full policy  year it would essentially double her premium. She didn't think  that was fair.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't  think Advantage had done 
anything wrong. Miss B didn't agree  so her complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss Bs made  a  number of detailed  points and I've considered 
everything shed  said carefully. But in this decision Im going  to focus on what I see as being 
the key outstanding issues.
Miss B had previously been a student  in a town. In 2018 she moved back to the family home  
in a more rural location and began work. She told Advantage about the changes  and her 
premium increased significantly. Given the scale of that rise I can understand why she found  
this concerning. And she thought Advantage wasn't  treating her fairly. So I've looked very 
carefully at how Advantage calculated her premium  increase.
I think its important to be clear that were  not the insurance industry regulator. So its not my 
role to tell Advantage how much it can charge for its policies.  Nor can I set limits  as to how 
much an insurer may increase a premium by when its customers  circumstances change. 
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent those change by. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement, 
balancing risk against  the need to compete  with other policies on offer,  and not something 
we would usually  think its fair to interfere with.
Miss B says that shed previously made a similar  move in the other direction. That is shed 
gone from living at home  to being  a student in town and on that occasion her premium had 
gone up. So I can understand why she might  have expected it to go down when  she did 
moved back to her parents house.
Ref: DRN67945992Advantage has shown me some information about  how it calculated Miss Bs premium  and 
what caused it to rise when her circumstances changed in 2018. That information  is 
commercially sensitive  so I can't share  it with her. But I've looked  at it very carefully and I 
can see that its applied  its ratings fairly and as it would for other people  with similar 
circumstances.
I think its important to be clear that the previous policy Miss B had was a different policy to 
the one that she had in 2018 when her circumstances changed.  So it's not possible to make  
a like-for-like comparison between the two. Also, although Miss B has said that she was a 
student for her previous  policy (which  she took out in 2016) I can see that Advantage 
actually had her recorded  as an apprentice. And the risk for that would be different to the risk 
for someone  solely in full time education.  So its not accurate to say that Advantage priced 
that policy based on Miss B solely being a student,  even if that was what more accurately 
described her status at the time. And the price Advantage  charged  would  have been  based 
on the job it had recorded and that would be reflected in the premiums she paid.  
Also Miss B said shed  been able to obtain  quotes from comparison websites that where 
higher for a student in town compared to an employee at the family home. That might be the 
case. But again those quotes  would also be for a different policy. And most  insurers Im 
aware of will review their rating information  (what they base  their premiums on) with great 
regularity, so those  ratings can change on a daily basis. So I don't think it's fair to compare  
those quotes against the premium information Advantage has shown me. But, as I've said 
above, I've looked very carefully at the evidence Advantage has provided. Thats shown me 
that the premium  Advantage charged took into account  relevant  factors and how those  had 
changed. And while that did result  in a significant  increase in premium Im satisfied that its 
treated Miss B and as it would customers with similar circumstances at that time and I think 
thats fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6794599