K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with how The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia, have handled 
her childrens trust fund accounts. 
background
In 2009, Miss C opened child trust fund accounts for her two children with Britannia. 
In February last year, she got in touch with Britannia to update her address  and request  
some information. But nothing came through. Miss C followed things up but was told they 
werent able to speak  with her about the accounts, as she wasnt a registered contact. 
Miss C was concerned  about the accounts  whether  they were  open and if not, what had 
happened to the money.  She asked  the Co-op but they said they werent able to share 
information with her. Her concerns were treated as a complaint and the Co-op explained that 
while they had updated her address as asked, they werent able to share information about  
the accounts as she was no longer the registered contact on the accounts. 
Unhappy and worried about this, Miss C asked  for our help. Her concerns were looked into 
by one of our investigators but she agreed  with the Co-op   thats because from what  she 
had seen, the Co-op  had acted fairly given the information theyd been provided with, so 
she didnt think any error had been made in removing Miss Cs authority or not notifying her. 
Miss C remained  unhappy   she said shed set the accounts up and was a sole signatory, so 
no one had the right to interfere with the accounts without her knowledge. She considers 
whats happened to be fraudulent and to have breached duties of responsibility  and 
confidentiality, and that before taking any action the Co-op (or Britannia) ought  to have 
notified her. Because  things remain unresolved,  the complaint was passed  to me.
On 19 February, I issued a provisional decision on Miss Cs complaint.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, I do agree with our investigators opinion  
but Id like to expand on why, giving Miss C a chance to comment  further. 
Miss C is concerned that the Co-op  have allowed  a third-party to change the contact details on 
her childrens accounts. This is of course very worrying. However,  there is more to this than that 
alone. 
The Co-op have shared  some paperwork they received in early 2017  included  with this were 
court documents that detailed a change in parental responsibility for Miss Cs children. The 
documents explained  that Miss Cs parents,  the childrens grandparents, had taken responsibility 
for the children. 
Miss Cs parents, along with social services,  contacted the Co-op to let them  know of this 
change, and to share their contact details so that they became the registered contacts  on the 
accounts. 
The Co-op didnt get in touch with Miss C about this  but from what  Ive seen, they didnt need  
to. HMRC publishes guidance  notes for providers  like the Co-op in these instances and section  
5.6 covers  the changing of registered contacts. While  section  5.6.1 says agreement  from an 
existing registered  contact  is needed before  another person  can take over,  section 5.6.2 says 
Ref: DRN65153492agreement isnt needed  and should not be requested where  the new contact has been appointed  
to be a guardian of the child. 
As a care order was put in place, it therefore appears  the Co-op didnt  have to contact  Miss C 
before changing the registered contact on the accounts. And as the Co-op have  followed 
HMRCs guidelines, I cant say theyve done  anything wrong here.  
So while I appreciate the worry and surprise to Miss C, I dont  agree  an error has been made, or 
the Co-op have acted  fraudulently as she has alleged.  A court  has determined  responsibility for 
the children and neither  our service nor the Co-op  would look to interfere with that.
The Co-op didnt  have anything to add. But Miss C remained unhappy and said,  in summary:
She feels that those  involved had overstepped  the mark with regards to 
confidentiality and breach of conduct.
At no point was she ever notified about  the change.
She remains in disbelief that as the mother, she cannot access accounts  that she 
solely opened. 
She feels someone ought  to be responsible and wishes for this to be rectified.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view 
expressed in my provisional  findings in that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
While I appreciate Miss Cs upset, as I said before, a court  determined  responsibility for her 
children and with that comes their financial situation. The Co-op have followed HMRCs rules 
and didnt need to notify Miss C of the change in contact. Im afraid  this is something that 
neither our service, nor the Co-op,  would interfere with. Although  I recognise this is a difficult 
and disappointing  situation for Miss C, I dont think the Co-op  have done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint against The Co-operative Bank 
Plc. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.  
Aimee Stanton 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6515349