K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying  
Advance packaged bank  account  in April 2011. Miss N says that HSBC didnt make  it clear 
that she couldve opened a fee-free account.
background
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and thought the Advance  account had been mis-
sold. As HSBC disagreed  with the adjudicators assessment,  the complaint has been 
referred for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Miss Ns complaint.  And having  done so I 
think this complaint should be upheld.  I will explain why.
When selling  the Advance  account to Miss N, HSBC had to ensure that she was given a fair 
choice. This essentially  means that HSBC had to sell the Advance account in a way that 
Miss N understood  that the packaged account  was optional and that fee-free accounts were 
also available.
However, Miss N says that when she went to HSBC to switch her account,  she was only 
presented with the option of opening an Advance account. HSBC  has provided a declaration  
form that was signed  by Miss N, and says that Miss N made an informed  decision  in taking 
out the Advance account. However, whilst the form did explain what  benefits were provided  
by the account,  it didnt  make it clear that she could take out a fee-free account.
HSBC says the declaration form explained that Miss N could cancel the Advance  account  
within 14 days of taking  it out. But the form didnt  explain that the account could be changed 
to a fee-free account  (rather than being  closed) if Miss N exercised her cancellation rights.   
HSBC also says that its sales process requires it to ensure the consumer is given all the 
information they need to decide if the Advance account was right for them. Whilst that may 
be the case, it also needed  to make it clear that it was optional  and based on what  Ive seen, 
I dont think it did.   
In response to the adjudicators view,  I can see that HSBC says that the account was sold 
on a non-advised  basis,  whereas the adjudicator  thought  that it had been sold on an advised 
basis. However, I dont think it matters on whether the account  was sold on an advised  or 
non-advised basis. This is because either  way, HSBC  had to give Miss N a fair choice and I 
dont think it did.
Ref: DRN61337402HSBC says that Miss N says her sister recommended  she opened the Advance  account.  
However, Miss N has said that her sister  only recommended that she banks with HSBC   
not to open an Advance account specifically. Miss N has been consistent throughout her 
complaint that she switched to HSBC because she was unhappy with the service she 
received from her previous bank, rather than because she was attracted to the features of 
the Advance account. And as Miss N was a new customer of HSBC,  I think its 
unreasonable, in the circumstances, for HSBC to have presumed  that Miss N knew  it offered 
fee-free accounts,  just because she held a fee-free account with her previous bank.
Ive considered the possibility that Miss N was aware she had a choice and instead opened 
an Advance account because she wanted  the benefits it provided.  But Im not persuaded 
that is the case here.
In April 2011 the main  benefits of the account  were: worldwide travel insurance, breakdown 
cover, life insurance  and accidental death  benefit. It also provided  preferential interest rates  
on overdrafts and savings  accounts,  fee-free cash withdrawals abroad and identity theft 
assistance  amongst  other benefits.  
Miss N has said that due to her circumstances at the time, she had no need  for the 
breakdown cover or the life or accidental death cover. Miss N didnt have an overdraft and 
although Miss N did open  a savings  account, HSBC says she didnt put any money into it 
until nearly a year after opening  the Advance account. The main  benefits that Miss N might  
have found useful, as far as I can see, appear  to be the travel insurance  and fee-free cash  
withdrawals abroad.  However Miss N doesnt appear to have engaged with or used the 
travel insurance benefit. And she appears to have only made very infrequent  cash  
withdrawals abroad.  Because of this, I think its unlikely that Miss N agreed  to open an 
Advance account because she wanted it for the benefits it provided. Instead,  I think  its more 
likely Miss N agreed to open an Advance account because she thought she had no other 
options to choose from.
Miss N is quite firm in saying that had she been made aware  that she couldve opened  a fee-
free account, she wouldve opened one instead  of the Advance account. And based on what  
she has said and her circumstances  at the time, I see no reason to doubt  this. So taking  
everything into account, I think that HSBC mis-sold  the account  to Miss N and she has lost 
out because of what HSBC did wrong.
Ref: DRN61337403what HSBC has to do to put matters right
To put things right, HSBC  should put Miss N back into the position  she wouldve have been 
in, if she hadnt  been sold the Advance account.  So HSBC should:
pay Miss N the fees she paid for the Advance account; and
add simple interest at 8% per year on each  of the above amounts from the date she 
paid the fee to the date of settlement;
If HSBC is able to work out any additional savings Miss N has made from holding the 
Advance account and it can show these calculations to her, it may, if it wants, deduct this 
additional saving  from any compensation that is paid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Miss N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
to do what I have said above, to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6133740