K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about the fees The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) are charging her on 
a mis-sold packaged bank  account  (PBA)  claim.
background
Mrs F instructed TCG to make a mis-sold PBA claim for her in April 2018. There  were some 
initial problems with the information on the paperwork Mrs F received, and TCG  didnt submit  
the claim to the PBA provider  until 2 May.  The claim was successful in June, and TCG 
invoiced Mrs F for their fees.
Mrs F has complained that TCG  incorrectly completed the forms when  she initially spoke  to 
them, and the replacement forms werent  received when promised. Shes also complained 
that TCG didnt follow the clauses in their agreement  by not progressing her claim, not doing  
any work and not dealing  with the PBA provider - she had to do this herself.  TCG have also 
not given her the breakdown of their costs she asked for.
In their response to Mrs Fs complaint  TCG  acknowledged there was a problem with the 
forms, and that they didnt  initially  do what they said they were going to. TCG have  reduced  
Mrs Fs fees by £38.55   from £388.55  to £350  because of this.
This complaint was originally sent to the Legal  Ombudsman, but was transferred to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service)  as part of the change 
in the regulation of claims management companies. It has been investigated by the Claims 
Management Ombudsman.
Our investigator found that TCG  acted reasonably in reducing their fees to compensate  Mrs 
F for the problems with the forms. But he felt that TCG had submitted the claim and they 
cant be held responsible for the PBA provider contacting Mrs F about this. He also felt that, 
because TCG charge  a percentage  success fee, they didnt need  to provide a breakdown  of 
their costs to Mrs F. Because of this he didnt think that TCG should do anything more.
Mrs F disagreed with the investigator and has asked  that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that there were some problems with the forms  TCG initially  completed for Mrs F on 
17 April 2018, and that this wasnt sorted until 30 April.  This meant  that there was a potential 
delay of two weeks  before the claim was submitted. The PBA provider has eight weeks in 
which to deal with a claim and Ive seen  that claim was successful on 22 June. This was just 
over nine from when Mrs F initially instructed TCG.
There have been  some service problems,  and this did cause a delay. But, because the claim 
was resolved in just over nine weeks, this delay  only had a minor impact. I agree that the fee 
reduction applied  by TCG was reasonable to reflect this impact.
Ref: DRN63060492TCG were  acting as Mrs Fs representative  in her claim and Ive seen  they prepared  and 
submitted the claim to the PBA provider for her. Because of this she, shouldnt have been  
contacted by the PBA provider directly  where  it is clear that a representative is acting, they 
should have dealt with the representative.
When contacted  by the PBA provider,  Mrs F had the choice to deal with them, or ask them to 
contact TCG. She chose  to deal with the PBA provider direct, knowing that TCG were  
charging for their services. Her choice  doesnt  alter this fact, and I dont agree that TCGs fee 
should be reduced or waived as a result. 
TCG also charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where  a claim was successful, TCGs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because TCGs fee is higher than the value of the work they have  done  for Mrs F doesnt  
make their fee unjustified.  Because the fee is calculated as a percentage of the 
compensation Mrs F was awarded, I also agree that TCG dont need to provide a breakdown 
of the work theyve  done.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Because  of this I wont 
be asking The Claims Guys Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6306049