K821x#15complaint
Ms A has complained about  a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy which  Canada  
Square Operations Limited sold to her when she applied for a credit card.
background
Ms A bought the PPI at the same  time as taking out a credit card online.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. Following a 
successful claim  the policy wouldve paid 10% of Ms As credit card balance for up to 
12 months per claim.  
Our adjudicator recommended  upholding this complaint. Canada Square Operations Limited 
didnt agree. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2019. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Canada Square Operations Limiteds  records show that Ms A took out the policy  and the 
card when she applied  online  via the EGG  website.
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  recommend the PPI cover with the card so this 
means it wasnt required to make sure it was suitable for Ms A. But it was required to give 
her information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could fairly make the 
decision for herself about whether or not to take out the policy.
Ive carefully considered  the terms and conditions  of this particular policy.  Work was 
defined as a continuous period of permanent gainful employment (either full-time or part-
time) or Self-Employment. In order to be eligible for the policy,  it was a requirement  that the 
policyholder was actively  at Work  when  they took it out. 
Understandably after so many years, the precise  dates arent entirely clear. However Ms A 
told us that at the time of the sale she had been on maternity leave since about August 
1999. I think her recollection  is likely to be right. She took out the card on 20 March  2000. So 
to my mind she wasnt actively at Work  then. She told us she then left work  to become a full 
time mother a couple of months after taking out the card  without ever returning to work. 
Canada Square  Operations Limited relies  on the fact that its records show Ms A ticked a box 
in the online  application to confirm  she was employed at the time of the sale, and she named 
her employer. It suggests that in March 2000 she had entered  the correct details as she was 
employed and so the policy was sold correctly. Canada Square  Operations  Limited says that 
if Ms A only decided to not return to work in May 2000, some 2 months  after the sale, the 
sale was appropriate.
Ms A told us she ticked the box to say she was working  because  she was employed at the 
time, but had started maternity leave. 
Ref: DRN67876662I think thats a reasonable explanation.  Canada Square Operations  Limited hasnt  said that 
on maternity leave wouldve been  an available  option that Ms A couldve selected instead.  
So I think she filled in the online form in the way she thought best explained  her 
circumstances.
Ive seen a copy  of her childs birth certificate  which supports what shes  told us about when 
she was on maternity leave. On balance, I find that Ms A probably wasnt actively at Work 
because she had taken  time off work  to have  a baby during that time. So that means Ms A 
didnt meet all the eligibility criteria set out in the policy and she didnt qualify for PPI. 
Overall, I dont  think Ive seen enough to be able to say that Canada Square  Operations 
Limited made the eligibility requirements clear enough to Ms A  because if it had drawn 
Ms As attention to the fact that the policy wouldnt cover her, I dont think  its likely  she 
wouldve taken it out. But Ms A paid for PPI even though she probably wasnt eligible for it 
and so wouldnt have  been covered for any claims.  
So, I think she lost out as a result  and Canada Square Operations Limited  should  put things 
right for her. 
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Ms A hasnt commented  further.
Canada Square  Operations Limited has highlighted the definition of Work in the policy  
document, which Id quoted in my provisional  decision  and have set out above.  
It says that a person on maternity leave is treated as being still employed and having  the 
same rights as any other employee. 
It also says that Ms A has made  it clear  that she was on maternity  leave at the point of sale, 
and decided not to return to work a few months after taking out her Egg Credit Card.  So in its 
view, her maternity leave would have still counted as gainful employment at the point  of sale 
as there  is no doubt that she was still employed  based on the information she has supplied.  
Canada Square  Operations Limited says that should she have been made redundant whilst 
on maternity leave she would have  still been  eligible for the benefits  provided by the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Canada Square Operations Limited has said in 
response to my provisional  decision. But I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
I say this because  it seems reasonable to me to say that Work and actively at Work 
probably have  different  meanings in the policy  otherwise it wouldnt have  been  necessary 
to use different wording. 
Ref: DRN67876663In this context, and taking into account common usage of the phrase in insurance  policies, 
I think actively at Work likely means actually being physically at ones  usual place of work 
and performing all ones normal duties, as opposed  to being away from work for any reason. 
And Canada  Square  Operations Limited  hasnt offered  any other explanation of what it 
means. 
Whilst I note the definition of Work  in the policy, in order  to be eligible for the policy  Ms A 
had to be actively at Work - and on balance, for the reasons Ive explained above,  in her 
particular circumstances  I dont think she met that policy requirement. 
So I think Canada Square Operations Limited didnt make the position clear to Ms A and 
shouldnt have sold the policy to her. It should  now take steps  to put things right for Ms A.
putting things right
Canada Square  Operations Limited should put Ms A in the position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken the PPI.
A.Canada Square  Operations Limited should find out how much Ms A would have 
owed when she closed her card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Canada Square  Operations Limited should then refund the difference between  what 
Ms A owed when she closed her account and what she would have  owed if she 
hadnt had PPI.
If Ms A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square Operations 
Limited can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.Canada Square  Operations Limited should add simple interest on the difference 
between what Ms A would have  owed when she closed her account from when she 
closed it until she gets the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.  
C.If  when Canada  Square Operations Limited works out what  Ms A would  have owed 
each month without PPI  Ms A paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  Canada 
Square Operations Limited should  also pay simple interest on the extra she paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest  until the point when  Ms A would have owed 
something on her card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Canada Square  Operations Limited should tell Ms A what  its done to work out A, B, 
and C.
 HM Revenue and Customs requires  Canada Square Operations Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Canada Square  Operations Limited must give Ms A a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN67876664my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Canada Square Operations Limited to pay Ms A as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6787666