K822xcomplaint
Miss L says Elevate  Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six loans Sunny provided  to Mrs L between March  2016 and August 
2018. Miss Ls borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 06/03/2016 15/03/2016 6 £500.00 £137.59
2 19/01/2018 15/03/2018 6 £500.00 £151.49
3 23/02/2018 15/03/2018 6 £50.00 £166.24
4 08/06/2018 23/07/2018 6 £500.00 £163.56
5 27/07/2018 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £146.94
6 24/08/2018 16/10/2018 6 £50.00 £161.85
In the most recent review  of this complaint our adjudicator upheld Miss Ls complaint about 
loans 4, 5 and 6 and thought that these loans shouldnt have been given. Sunny didnt 
respond and the complaint was passed  to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN64108702There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. 
Sunny says it checked Miss Ls income  and expenditure  before  agreeing  to lend her any of 
these loans. And I think this was proportionate for loans 1, 2 and 3. However, as our 
adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loans  4, 5 and 6 wouldve  included a more  
thorough review of Miss Ls financial situation. And had Sunny carried out a full review  of 
Miss Ls circumstances  it wouldve discovered  that she had several defaults registered  
against her on her credit file and had other short-term credit facilities in place at the time of 
applying for loans 4, 5 and 6. This evidence suggests Miss L was having trouble managing 
her finances  and was, therefore, unlikely to be able to pay back  these loans. And so, a 
responsible lender ought not to have agreed to lend to an applicant  in this situation.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4, 5 and 6 as I think Sunny shouldnt  have lent 
Miss L these  loans. Sunny should  put things right as set out below.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If Sunny have sold the outstanding debts  it should  buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Miss L towards  
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  it has already  refunded.
B)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Miss L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Miss L as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Miss L 
having made overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
Ref: DRN64108703would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Sunny should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Miss L. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Miss L. Sunny  shouldnt pursue outstanding  balances  made  up of principal it has 
already written-off.
E)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Miss Ls credit file in 
relation to 4, 5 and 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Miss L a certificate showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ls complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6410870