K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold credit  
card payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Mr B took out PPI in 1999 when  he applied for a credit card. Both were  done at the same 
time using  an online  application.
At the time Mr B was employed as a senior manager. He told us his sick pay was six months  
full pay followed by six months half pay and he had less than three  months worth of pay in 
savings. He also said he had no health  problems at the time.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment and death  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  up to 10% of Mr Bs credit  card balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim for accident  and sickness or unemployment. At the time, it 
cost 59p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  balance. The premium would continue to have 
to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract interest. 
Canada Squares  records show  that Mr Bs credit  card account ended  in 2007.
In summary  Mr Bs representative raised the following complaint points on his behalf:
the policy terms and conditions were not explained  including the exclusions
Mr B had sick pay and savings he couldve used to meet  his card payments.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr B chose the cover and there  wasnt anything to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for 
him.
Mr Bs representative disagrees. Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and published some  example final decisions that set out in 
detail how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend  to 
set that out here, but Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, and carefully considered the information provided by both parties to this 
dispute, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Canada Square  needed to make  it clear to Mr B that PPI was optional.
Ive seen example  internet screen shots that Im satisfied Mr B would have likely seen when 
he applied  for his credit card. These allowed him to select whether he wanted to include PPI 
with his credit card or not  it gave Yes and No options. 
Ref: DRN64136662Ive also seen nothing  to persuade me that the Yes box was pre-ticked  Mr B had to select 
one of the options to be able to proceed  with his credit card application.
Canada Square  says and in the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, I accept that 
PPI was added when Mr B applied for the credit card.
So taking everything into account, I think more likely than not Canada Square  presented  the 
policy to Mr B as being optional  and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.
did Canada  Square provide advice?
Canada Square  says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr B says it did advise  him.
I accept the sale took place  online  Canada Squares records show this and Ive not seen 
anything which makes  me think things happened differently. I cant  see that there was any 
direct interaction between Mr B and a Canada Square representative  that would have 
provided Canada  Square with the opportunity to give him advice about the policy.  And Ive 
not seen anything within the online application which makes me think  that Mr B was led to 
reasonably believe  that hed been  given advice. Rather Canada Square  alerted Mr B to the 
fact that he could take out the policy and gave him information about  it.
So looking  at what happened when  Canada Square  sold Mr B the PPI, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.
This means  Canada Square didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable or right for Mr B. But 
it did have to give him enough  clear  and timely information about the policy  so he could 
make an informed decision about it.
the information
Canada Squares  provided us with screenshots it says Mr B would have seen, together  with the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to policies like 
Mr Bs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr B at the time,  I dont think Canada Square  gave  Mr 
B the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about  
whether or not to take out the policy. 
As Ive said,  this was an online sale. I can see that Canada Square described  the PPI policy  
as providing cover against unemployment, accident, sickness  and death. It also informed Mr 
B that the policy helped cover his card repayments at the cost of 59p per £100 of his monthly 
statement balance.
I think the information provided  would have given Mr B a broad sense of the main things the 
policy covered. But it was Canada Squares responsibility to draw to Mr Bs attention the 
important information   i.e. the key information  about the nature of the cover  and any 
significant exclusions and limitations, which might be relevant to his decision. 
Ref: DRN64136663Im not persuaded Canada Square did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr B, including the need to maintain premiums  during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Canada  Square 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Canada  Square gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy. 
what effect did Canada Squares shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Canada  Square didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr 
B. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr B 
would have still taken  out the policy had Canada Square done  things  properly. 
Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Mr B to weigh up in his own mind 
the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work  it wasnt Canada Squares  job to do this for 
him.
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. Im mindful 
too that Canada Squares records  show that Mr B made an immediate balance transfer onto 
his new credit card followed by another one shortly  afterwards  so it appears he had a not 
insignificant balance to protect immediately and this was in his contemplation at the time of 
the sale. 
But I accept Mr B made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So Ive gone on to 
consider Mr Bs circumstances at the time to help me decide whether he wouldve still taken 
out PPI in any event.  And having done so, I think its likely he wouldve still gone ahead with 
PPI had Canada  Square done anything more. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible for the cover;
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt cover such as existing medical  conditions  or unusual employment  
circumstances.
Mr B had existing means   both sick pay and some savings. But the policy wouldve 
paid out alongside these  and for up to 12 months. And as I said above it appears  Mr 
B intended to transfer a not insignificant balance on to the card straightaway.  So I 
think that despite his existing means  the policy  couldve  been useful to him; 
particularly given  the fact that with a 10% monthly benefit, the policy  had the 
potential to clear the outstanding balance in full. 
Mr B didnt  know everything about  the cost, but it appears to have been affordable.
So, I think Mr B had some good  reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him; 
he was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions  including  the fact the policy only paid out for 12 months per claim - could have 
proved useful to him should the insured risks have become  a reality. 
Ref: DRN64136664conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr B would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what he thought he was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time, notwithstanding  the employment benefits hed likely have received and his 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr B would 
have taken out the policy in any event. 
It follows that I dont think Mr B has suffered loss as a result of taking out PPI with his credit 
card, so I dont uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6413666