K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement  financed by 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement.
background 
Mr A tells us he acquired the vehicle in April 2018  through a dealer Ill refer to as C. He 
says the vehicle broke down in July 2018  and had to be recovered  by the RAC - and it had 
taken the vehicle to an independent garage  Ill call K. He said K had inspected  the vehicle 
and found there was probably turbo damage. Mr A told us the vehicle had then been 
returned to C but had later been left in a hotel car park - as he understood C was no longer 
in business. He says he feels it may have been  tampered with as it had been with C for eight 
weeks prior to being inspected on behalf  of Moneybarn.
Moneybarn told us that after the vehicle  had been  returned to C it (C) had carried out an 
inspection. It said this had revealed  the vehicle had been overfilled with oil. It said Mr A had 
told C hed added half a litre of oil but had later told Moneybarn it was only one quarter litre. 
Moneybarn said it had arranged for the vehicle to be examined by an independent company 
Ill refer to as E. It said Es report had concluded the vehicle  had been  overfilled  with oil and 
this had resulted  in back pressure causing  several pipes to blow off on the engine.  It said E 
had concluded  that the customer  should be responsible for the repairs. Moneybarn  told us 
that as a gesture of goodwill it had provided Mr A with £607  to fund hire cars during the 
period of its investigations.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 July 2019. In my provisional decision I 
said I was minded to uphold  the complaint as I thought the vehicle was not of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. And I said Mr A should  be able to end the agreement.
Since then Mr A has replied accepting  my provisional view.  Moneybarn have not replied. I 
thank Mr A for his reply. In these circumstances  I see no reason to change  my provisional  
decision which is largely repeated in my final decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A has experienced the problems which  have arisen with this vehicle. I can 
understand it would  have  come as a disappointment that a major failure occurred after a 
relatively short time.
Mr As conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Moneybarn supplied  the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. Where  evidence is unclear, 
incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I make my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities.
Ref: DRN63947722When the vehicle  broke  down  it was examined  by K and diagnosed as a probable  turbo 
failure. K stated a new turbo and intercooler  would  probably be required. K has subsequently 
confirmed this opinion  to our adjudicator. It also confirmed it had examined the oil levels and 
found them  to be within acceptable limits. Its worth  noting that this inspection  took place on 
or around  18 July 2018.
The vehicle was then taken to C and - according to notes supplied  by C to Moneybarn  - the 
turbo was then inspected  by another garage. Its said this inspection  showed the turbo was 
in perfect condition - although Ive not seen a report from the inspecting garage to support 
this.
C is then said to have  inspected the vehicle  itself and - having stripped it down - said it found  
it had been overfilled with oil. It says eight litres was drained from the sump - when the 
maximum is supposed to be four and a half litres. It said this had caused the Diesel  
Particulate Filter (DPF) to collapse. I understand a new DPF was fitted  - at a cost to Mr A of 
£748 - but this also didnt solve the problem.
The vehicle was inspected by E on 20 September 2018. The report stated  the battery was 
flat and the engine would  not start. It reported  the oil level to be at the correct level.  The 
report concluded that the vehicle had faults  which had been caused by being overfilled with 
oil.
Theres a considerable conflict in the evidence and - other  than the fact that it is agreed the 
vehicle is not working  - there is little common  ground.  Starting at the point when K examined 
the vehicle it was confirmed the oil level was within the required limits. Thats  also the case  
two months later when  E inspected the vehicle. What happened in the intervening period 
was that for part of the time the vehicle was seemingly left in a hotel car park adjacent  to Cs 
premises. During its examination and attempt at repairs C drained oil from the vehicle - 
allegedly up to eight  litres - before  replacing  some of it. So its hardly  surprising it was 
showing the correct  level when inspected by E. As far as I can see the conclusion which E 
has drawn is almost entirely  based  on verbal evidence from C. And it seems heavily reliant 
on what it was told about the amounts of oil which had been added  by the customer.  The
report actually refers  to its inspector being  told that the customer  had admitted that he 
overfilled the engine by over half a litre.
Mr A accepts he topped  up the oil level - by up to half a litre - before going on the trip during  
which the vehicle  broke down  - but he doesnt admit this amounted  to overfilling. Whilst C 
has reportedly taken  eight litres  from the vehicle theres no documentary evidence to support 
this. Nor is there any evidence it showed  E the amount  of oil it had taken from the vehicle 
before replacing  some  of it. In those  circumstances I think  Es conclusion - that Mr A is liable  
for the repair costs  - was based  on information which at best was unproven and was 
probably erroneous.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And here relevant legislation  
includes the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015. In summary, this states that where a fault is 
identified within six months  of supply its presumed to be present at the point of supply 
unless its established  otherwise.
Ref: DRN63947723For the reasons  stated  Im not able to rely on Es report and I dont think there is plausible 
evidence to support  the assertion that C took eight litres of oil from the vehicle. C knew of 
Ks view of what caused the breakdown  and that it (K) hadnt  identified  overfilling as an 
issue. So it would have  been relatively easy for C to preserve and record the amounts of oil 
it removed and replaced to support its diagnosis of overfilling. It did not do so and it has also 
not provided Moneybarn with any report as to the details of the turbo inspection. Moneybarn  
suggested C had ceased trading and that it had not been  able to obtain this documentation.  
But I saw the vehicle recently  advertised  for sale under what  appeared to be the same  
company details as C.
I dont think Es report establishes that the faults  - which led to the vehicle failure  - were not 
present at the point of supply. On a balance of probabilities  I think it likely that the vehicle  
was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.
In normal circumstances  Id think Moneybarn should  be given the chance  to repair the 
vehicle. But it rejected Mr As complaint and given  its now a year or more since the vehicle 
failed I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Mr A to accept the vehicle back.
I note Moneybarn funded £607 in hire charges for a replacement vehicle during its 
investigation and I think it acted fairly in doing so. And I do not consider it should  be liable for 
the £748 Mr A was charged for the replacement  DPF.  Ive seen no evidence  Moneybarn 
authorised this - or was even aware until afterwards of this expenditure. That seems to have 
been a matter arranged solely between Mr A and C. It also seems this didnt solve  the 
problem and so I think Mr A will need  to seek any remedy  directly  from C.
In my provisional decision I asked for clarification from the parties about the current status of 
the vehicle. My understanding was that the vehicle  was never returned to Mr A - or collected 
by him - following the inspection by E. And ownership of the vehicle never passed from 
Moneybarn to Mr A as full payment was not made. 
As neither party has supplied  any further information, Ive assumed that the vehicle was 
recovered and that Mr A no longer  claims any right to possess and/or use it. Moneybarn has 
told us its back in stock  - and Ive seen evidence its currently  being advertised  on a website.
In summary,  and for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think  the vehicle was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  I am, therefore,  upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN63947724my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I am upholding  this complaint.
I require that in order to settle the complaint Moneybarn No.1 Limited should take the 
following action:
1.Treat the vehicle as having been rejected by Mr A;
2.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr A to pay from 28 September  2018 or, if 
earlier, the final day on which the replacement (hire) vehicle was paid for by 
Moneybarn;
3.Refund the deposit  paid by Mr A together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement;
4.Pay £100 to Mr A for distress and inconvenience;
5.Arrange to have  details of the agreement  removed  from Mr As credit  file. This is 
subject to all payments and charges due under the agreement  being paid.
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  can deduct  any sums  due under the agreement prior to paying any 
sum arising  from item 3 and 4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6394772