K820x#14Complaint
Mr K is unhappy esure Insurance  Limited  didnt accept a claim he made under his motor  
insurance policy. 
Background
Mr K said hed been driving back from a friends house on 10 March 2017  and had to stop 
because of a flat tyre. He wasnt able to replace or repair the tyre, so he left the car on a 
quiet road and his friend drove  him home. 
When Mr K came  back to the car on 12 March 2017, he found it had been stolen. 
He reported the theft to the police later that day. Mr K contacted  esure on 24 March 2017  to 
make a claim. 
esure said they would  not be paying  the claim because  a forensic engineer  found the key 
Mr K says hed been using to drive the car, had last been used on 27 August 2016,  a 
number of months prior to the theft. And so, on balance, esure didnt  think  the theft had 
occurred as reported. 
An investigator considered Mr Ks complaint.  She said,  having  reviewed the information  
esure had considered and what Mr K had provided,  that she thought  esure hadnt acted 
unreasonably by declining Mr Ks claim.  Mr K said he thinks  the key must  not have recorded 
information from the car correctly, the warning  lights on his car mustve been faulty and that 
he only ever had one key for his car. 
As Mr K didnt agree  the complaints been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  esure  has 
treated Mr K unfairly and Ill explain why.
esure say, based  on the information available, they dont think the theft occurred in the way 
Mr K says it did and so they couldnt validate Mr Ks claim. 
esure had Mr Ks car key examined by a forensic  engineer. The report  says the key was 
taken to a branch of the manufacturer to be scanned. The scan showed that the key was last 
used in August  2016 and the mileage logged at that time was 45,203 miles. But the most 
recent MOT  for Mr Ks car had been  in May 2016  and the mileage logged at that time was 
124,405 miles. 
The engineer said this meant  the last time the key was used,  the date and time was 
updated, but not the mileage and that this happens  when  the engine  is started, but the car 
doesnt exceed 30mph or go further than seven miles. The report  also says that this 
wouldve been one of two keys that came with the car when it was new.  
Ref: DRN63479772Mr K has said he doesnt think the key has recorded the data from the car correctly. He says 
this is because the car was previously written off (known as a total loss). But, other  than 
what Mr K has said, theres nothing else to support what he says about this. Especially since  
the engineers  report concludes  that the key was working and hadnt been  damaged.  And 
the last recorded use of the key was after the previous accident which had resulted in the car 
being written off  which suggests that the data recording on the key was still working after 
the accident. The cars ECU wasnt damaged in the earlier accident and the repairs  were to 
the bodywork  of the car which wouldnt have affected the engine. So in the circumstances, I 
dont think its unreasonable for esure  to rely on this report. 
Mr K also says that this was the only key he got when he bought the car. He bought it after it 
was previously written off. And hes provided  an email from the place he says he bought the 
car which says only one key was supplied. This email is from an email address with a 
business name different to the name  of the garage that Mr K told esure hed bought  the car 
from when he spoke  to them.  And Ive looked  at the websites  for both these  businesses  but I 
cant see that theyre linked, as Mr K has suggested. Ive thought about this though and I 
dont think it makes a difference to the outcome. I say this because  it still doesnt explain 
how Mr K had been driving his car, if the only key he bought it with hadnt been used since  
August 2016.  As theres a discrepancy in the information provided and considering the 
evidence surrounding  the key  I cant say esure  has acted unreasonably. 
esure also says they have  concerns  about  the circumstances that led to Mr K leaving the car 
unattended. When asked, Mr K said there  had been no warning  lights  on his dashboard to 
indicate there was problem  with the tyre pressure and that he stopped  because  he felt the 
car wasnt driving properly. But esure says that particular  make of car would have a warning  
light, and that if the warning light was faulty,  it would  then be lit on the dashboard  rather 
than not showing  at all. Its possible Mr K has misremembered  whether there  was a warning 
light or not. But I dont  think  its unreasonable that esure took what Mr K has told them about 
the circumstances of the loss into account when deciding his claim. 
As esure have tried to fully investigate  the circumstances surrounding the theft, including  
analysing the key, I cant say theyve acted  unreasonably. Overall  Im satisfied that esure 
have considered Mr Ks claim  fairly and in line with the terms and conditions  of his policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6347977