K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that he was advised by an appointed representative (AR) of Quilter 
Financial Limited to switch his personal pensions to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP).  
He has also said he was advised by the AR to then invest in two unregulated collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS).
At the time of the advice and until recently the firm was known as Caerus. In the decision I 
have referred to the firm. The firms  solicitors  have used Caerus.   
background
In late November 2011 all of the necessary paperwork  (application forms etc.) was 
completed for the switch of two personal  pensions to a SIPP.  Paperwork was also completed 
to make two investments  in UCIS within the SIPP. A suitability report was sent to Mr L on 9 
December 2011.  This report sets out the reasons  for recommending the switch  of the 
personal pensions  to the SIPP. The report made no mention of the UCIS.  
In 2014 Mr L became  aware that the two UCIS  investments had failed. This prompted  him to 
contact a solicitor to investigate a potential claim.  As part of this process  the solicitor  made  a 
number of information requests to various  parties.  However, neither legal proceedings nor a 
complaint were started.
In October  2015 Mr L was declared bankrupt. Solicitors acting for his trustee in bankruptcy 
(TIB) complained to the firm in June  2016.  They then complained to this service  in March 
2017. Based  on arguments put forward by the firms solicitors (that only Mr L could complain 
rather than his TIB) the investigator contacted Mr L to obtain  his authority to complain. This 
was not finally received  until January  2018.   
At this point the firm objected to our looking at the complaint as it considered it had been 
made too late.
I have issued two provisional decisions in the case.  My first provisional decision covered 
both jurisdiction and merits.  Up to this point the main  issue had been jurisdiction rather than 
merits. The firm objected as it had not at this point  been any discussion of the merits. Whilst 
I was satisfied that it was clear what the firms position was as regards  merits I decided  to 
issue a second  provisional decision so as to clear that the firm had had the opportunity to 
address both merits and jurisdiction arguments before issuing a final decision. I also 
included a further argument about exceptional circumstances which  had been discussed  
with the firm beforehand but which did not form part of my first provisional decision.
A copy of my second  provisional  decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
Briefly my provisional findings  on jurisdiction were:
It is wrong to describe  us as dealing with two complaints  one made by the TIB and the 
other made by Mr L. There  is only one complaint   about the advice given to Mr L in late 
2009. Mr L is an eligible  complainant and the TIB is a person authorised in law to bring the 
complaint  albeit  there is uncertainty whether the TIB has this authority.  
However, it is not for this service to decide whether the TIB is authorised  to bring  the 
complaint. That is a matter for Mr L and the TIB to resolve and if they cannot reach 
Ref: DRN69820642agreement for the courts  to decide.  In the absence of any clarification on this point I 
considered I must assume that the TIB was a person authorised  in law to bring the 
complaint. The complaint  made by the TIB has been  made within six years of the events 
being complained of and so is in time.
Mr L has subsequently acquired the right to complain from the TIB and is entitled to continue  
the complaint  initiated by the TIB.
If the above was wrong, and I dont think it is, I consider  it correct  to say that the reason that 
Mr L did not complain in time was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr L not unreasonably 
relied on what the TIB said i.e. that he was not entitled to bring a complaint. It was 
reasonable for him to have expected the TIB to be an expert in such matters. If the TIB had 
given him and this service  the correct information about its ability to bring a complaint (albeit 
there is still uncertainty on this point), Mr L would have  complained  in time. My provisional  
conclusion was that these can reasonably be considered to meet the requirements  of 
exceptional circumstances.     
As regards  merits my provisional conclusions were:  
It was unclear whether the AR had given  advice on the UCIS.   
It was clear that the AR advised  Mr L to switch his personal pensions to a SIPP. This 
is advice that the firm was responsible for under section 39(3) of FSMA.
I was satisfied that the comment in the suitability  report that no decision had been 
taken about the investments in the SIPP was inaccurate.  Instead  there  is clear  
evidence that at the time the report was written, the process to make  the investments  
in the UCIS had been started and this was known  to the AR.
As the intended  investments were  known to the AR the SIPP advice  should  have 
taken this into account. The intended  investments were  unsuitable and as a result  the 
SIPP advice given  by the AR was unsuitable and the complaint  should  be upheld.
 
Mr L accepted  my decision and had nothing  further  to add.
The firm made  a detailed  reply which largely  reiterated  the points it had already made. So I 
will not summarise them  here again   but confirm I have reconsidered them  in their entirety. 
It did make  the following new points:
The second  provisional decision has put forward a new argument that Mr L had acquired the 
right to continue the TIBs complaint. Mr L acquired the right to make a new complaint, he 
did not acquire  the right to continue  the TIBs existing complaint.
The consequence of Mr L being told by the TIB that the right to make  a claim rested with it 
rather than him was that a legal claim was not pursued. It not did cause a delay in 
complaining to this service.       
The decision  also purports to conclude that the UCIS represented transactions  for which  the 
firm had accepted  responsibility for the purposes  of s39 FSMA. The recent Appeal Court 
case of Anderson v Sense Network  court reinforces its view that the firm is not responsible 
for the UCIS  advice.  
Ref: DRN69820643It pointed out the obligations SIPP operators  have in respect  of investments to be held within  
a SIPP.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to change  my mind.
In terms of jurisdiction the firm has said:  
What Mr L acquired was the relevant  causes  of action in relation to the SIPP, he cannot 
have acquired  the right to carry on the existing  complaint. The referral  of complaints to the 
FOS are statutory  rights governed by the FCA's  DISP RulesHowever, he cannot enjoy any 
right to "continue" the complaint of the TIB, in the sense that his complaint is treated as 
having been made when  the complaint by the TIB  a separate  legal entity to Mr L - was 
made.
I do not agree with the above.  The firm has rephrased its argument but it is essentially the 
one made  previously i.e. that there are two complaints  the TIBs complaint and Mr Ls 
complaint. For the reasons given earlier I dont  agree with this interpretation. It remains my 
view there  is only one complaint and one eligible complainant  Mr L. The TIB is (arguably) 
an entity authorised  by law to complain.  The complaint  it is bringing  is Mr Ls complaint. 
When it assigned its right to bring  the complaint to Mr L he was continuing the complaint 
already initiated  and not starting  another complaint. The complaint started by the TIB was 
made in time.  
Exceptional circumstances
It remains my view that for the reasons set out above and earlier this complaint has been 
made in time. The exceptional circumstances argument is only relied on if this is incorrect  
and I dont think it is.
I accept that at the time of Mr Ls bankruptcy it appeared  to be Mr Ls intention to pursue 
legal action rather than make a complaint to this service. However, Mr Ls solicitor was only 
in the process  of gathering evidence  and a claim had not been filed. It is therefore quite 
possible that had Mr L not been  made  bankrupt a complaint to the Ombudsman  Service  
would have been made. A complaint to the ombudsman  service is generally the most cost 
effective way of resolving a dispute for a typical consumer.
The issue  of whether the TIB had the authority to make a complaint were first raised by the 
firm with the TIB in November 2016.  On the assumption that the TIB is not able to bring a 
complaint about  the SIPP advice (which hasnt been definitely established) this point should 
have been clarified at this point. If the TIB concluded it wasnt able to complain it is 
reasonable to assume that it would  have told Mr L  At this point  the TIB was pursuing a 
complaint rather than legal action . So it would  have been straightforward for Mr L to 
continue the complaint rather than the TIB. Given Mr Ls circumstances I consider legal 
action would have  been unlikely.  
I also said in my provisional decision that it was not just the TIBs dealings  with Mr L and his 
solicitors that were misleading.  I pointed out that this service asked the TIB to arrange for the 
complaint form to be countersigned by Mr L. Despite being  pressed for a signature the TIB 
Ref: DRN69820644refused to comply. It maintained that it had the authority to complain and that it wasnt  
necessary to obtain Mr Ls signature. At this point this service accepted what the TIB said.  In 
my view it was reasonable  to have proceeded on the assumption that what the TIB, as an 
expert in issues surrounding  bankruptcy, was correct.  It was only later when the complaint 
was assigned to an investigator that it came to light that the TIB might  be wrong. If the TIB 
had agreed to the request  to obtain Mr Ls signature it is more  likely  than not this would have  
been obtained within the six year period.   
UCIS advice
The firm has said the following about  my second  provisional decision:
This decision also purports to conclude that the UCIS represented transactions  for which 
Caerus had accepted responsibility for the purposes  of section 39(3)  of FSMA.
The above  is not what I said. I actually said the following about the s39 issue: 
The responsibility of a principal for the actions of an AR is established by a consideration of 
the AR agreement and other associated documents such as a compliance manual. The AR 
agreement authorises  the AR to advise on investments  as per article 53 of the RAO. It does 
not contain any other restrictions  such as a ban on giving UCIS advice. Restrictions placed 
on an AR are not restricted to those set out in the AR agreement  and can include restrictions  
set out in, for example,  a compliance  manual. I am aware that the firms  compliance  manual 
requires all advice to be pre-approved. In addition the firm does not allow  its ARs to give 
UCIS advice. So, on the face of it, the firm is not responsible for any UCIS  advice  the AR 
might have given.
However, that is not necessarily the end of things. Where two pieces of advice are 
inextricably linked they in effect  form a single piece of regulated advice. If any one element 
of the advice is the responsibility of the principal then it will be responsible for the whole of 
the advice. This was made clear  in the case of Tenet Connect v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin). So if the disputed  UCIS advice was inextricably linked to 
the SIPP advice  then all elements of the advice would become the responsibility of the firm.
However, I do not consider that whether the firm accepted responsibility for any UCIS advice 
affects whether  this is a complaint that we can look at. I also dont think  it makes a difference 
whether the AR (rather  than an unregulated  entity) gave UCIS advice. I will not therefore 
make a finding on these  points.
Notwithstanding the firms arguments based on the Anderson Sense Network case, it 
remains my view that it is arguable that the AR gave the UCIS advice and if it did the firm is 
responsible for that advice (the advice encompassing the SIPP  advice and the UCIS advice). 
However, as set out above, I do not need to make  a finding on whether the AR gave the 
UCIS advice  and do not do so. This is because  the SIPP advice  which the AR gave and 
the firm is responsible for, should  have taken  into account the UCIS investments that were to 
be held in the SIPP.    
The firm has said:  
It remains the case that Caerus has seen no evidence  to support the view that [the AR] was 
aware, when Mr L was advised to transfer  to the SIPP, that Mr L intended  to invest  in the 
UCIS.
Ref: DRN69820645The above  does not explicitly accept that the firm is responsible for the SIPP advice. I have 
explained why I thought  that SIPP advice was given  and why the firm was responsible for 
this advice given  by the AR to Mr L. The firm have not commented on this so I assume they 
accept my conclusion that the firm is responsible  under section 39(3)  for this SIPP  advice.
The firm continue to dispute whether  the suitability report was accurate  in respect  of the 
investments to be held within the SIPP. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I was satisfied the suitability report  was inaccurate.  I 
was satisfied, from the various  application  forms completed in the presence of the AR, which 
predated the suitability  report, that the AR knew how the SIPP funds were to be invested. 
The point being made is not whether this knowledge  makes  the investments  transactions  for 
which the firm is responsible. Instead the key point  is that as the AR knew  what the intended  
investments to be held in the SIPP were, this needed to be taken into consideration when 
giving the SIPP advice. It does not matter whether the AR gave the UCIS advice or not.  
This is made  clear  in the case referred  to earlier of Burns  v FCA in the Upper Tribunal. The 
decision in this case said:
Let us take the example of Mr Burns himself and the establishment of his SIPP. He had 
decided that he wished the existing  benefits  of all his pension  plans to be transferred into a 
SIPP and that the underlying investments of that SIPP should consist  entirely of the 
commercial property in which Mr Burnss businesses activities were  carried  on. In those 
circumstances, assuming the IFA firm making the arrangements for Mr Burns made  a 
personal recommendation as to the suitability of the SIPP, it would be the duty of the IFA 
firm who advised Mr Burns to advise on the suitability of the SIPP as an investment  vehicle  
and in making that assessment it would  have to consider whether the underlying  
investments proposed were consistent  with Mr Burnss attitude to risk, as established  
through the fact find carried out pursuant to the requirements of COBS  9.2.1. and 9.2.2.  The 
firm would also have to consider, as required  by COBS  9.2.2  whether Mr Burns had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  in order to understand  the risks involved in the 
transaction, which would include the risks inherent  in the underlying  investments  proposed to 
be acquired. If the firm was of the view that Mr Burns understood all of those risks and was 
prepared to accept  them and that he was able financially to bear any related investment 
risks consistent with his investment objectives, then it could reasonably take the view that 
recommendation to establish the SIPP with Mr Burnss chosen  investments were suitable for 
him. If the firm felt that it was not suitable having  taken account of all those matters, it would 
have the duty to advise him of that view, but it would still be open  to Mr Burns to decide that 
notwithstanding that advice, he nevertheless wish to proceed with the transaction
So in the above case the SIPP  advice can be deemed unsuitable based on the risk of the 
underlying investments  despite  the fact that the choice of investments was made  by Mr 
Burns. It is not necessary for the firm to have given  advice on the underlying investments.
So the key thing is whether the AR knew what the intended investments were  to be  
because this would be a factor in assessing the suitability of the SIPP advice. As set out 
above I am satisfied that the AR knew this was the case.  
For the reasons  set out in the attached provisional decision it remains my view that the 
advice Mr L received to switch his personal  pensions to a SIPP for the purpose of investing  
in two high risk overseas property investments was unsuitable. I consider:
Ref: DRN69820646It exceeded the level of risk he was prepared to take
It was not consistent with his financial circumstances
He did not have the knowledge and experience to understand the level of risk he was 
taking
I am also satisfied that losing the entirety  of his pension savings would have  been  upsetting  
for Mr L. I consider that £500 would be a suitable  sum to compensate  him for this.
fair compensation
Possible errors on the part of the SIPP operator
A SIPP operator has obligations  to ensure that the investments it allows to be held in the 
SIPP are appropriate  for a SIPP. It may be the case that Green Oil and Harlequin (the two 
UCIS) were not appropriate investments. If this were  the case  then Mr L may have a valid 
claim against the SIPP operator.  
However, Mr L has not made a complaint about  the SIPP operator only the firm. I consider 
that the most  appropriate way to deal with this issue is for Mr L to assign the rights  he has to 
pursue a claim against the SIPP operator to the firm. Any such undertaking should be drawn  
up by the firm at its expense.
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would  probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr L would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr L's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
The suitability report said the following  about  Mr Ls concerns about his pension:
 
You have  been  extremely  unhappy with the performance of your pension  funds  and in fact 
stopped contributing into them sometime ago. You feel that you have not really done 
anything wrong  in respect of investment but at the sometime have made no money! As a 
result you believe the time is right to review and update your existing pension arrangements.
Given Mr Ls dissatisfaction with his existing pension arrangements  I think  it unlikely that 
they would  have remained unchanged. For these reasons I dont think reinstatement of his 
original pension plans  would be the correct  approach.  
what should  the firm do?
 
To compensate Mr L fairly, the firm must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr L's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value,  there is a gain. Losses and gains  should then be combined.  If there  is an 
overall loss, that is the amount of compensation payable.
Ref: DRN69820647The firm should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, the firm should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If the firm is unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr L £500 for upset caused by the loss of his entire pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If the firm deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. The firm should  give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN69820648investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SCS 
Farmlandstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Harlequin still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The 
firm should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If the firm is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. The firm may require  that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay 
the firm any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. The firm will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN69820649fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if the firm totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude. 
The benchmark set out above is a lower risk one than the attitude to risk recorded at the 
time of the advice.  However, as set out above  I do not consider that this was an accurate 
reflection of the level of risk that Mr L was prepared to take.  Given his circumstances at the 
time of the advice  I consider that Mr L should have been advised  not to take such a high 
level of risk. For these reasons I consider that the benchmark set out above is reasonable.
Had the firm given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  If the firm cannot take 
ownership of the investments (and the SIPP at as result cant  be closed) then its not fair that 
Mr L continue to pay the annual SIPP fees.  So, to provide certainty  to both parties,  I think  its 
fair that the firm pays Mr L an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees 
(calculated using  the previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due 
during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked 
out so the SIPP can be closed. 
The above  redress  is slightly different to what was originally proposed in my provisional 
decision. Before  finalising  my conclusion I wrote to the firm setting out the changes I 
proposed to make and inviting them to comment.
It confirmed that it did not wish to take ownership  of the investment  and that Mr L should 
retain ownership of the investment. It agreed  that in return Mr L should provide an 
undertaking to pay the firm any payment  or distribution he might receive in respect of either 
investment. This is what is already provided for in the above  redress.  It has not said anything 
about SIPP fees so what I have set out above  should be carried  out by the firm.  
The firm reiterated a point  it had made  earlier about the responsibility of the SIPP operator. It 
went on to say that Mr L should assign any rights he has against the SIPP  operator to the 
Ref: DRN698206410firm. This has been provided for above.    
my final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld. I order Quilter Financial Limited to 
pay compensation as set out above to Mr L. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN698206411Provisional decision of 18 September 2019
summary of complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that he was advised by an appointed representative (AR) of Caerus 
Financial Limited to switch his personal pensions to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP).  
He has also said he was advised by the AR to then invest in two unregulated collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS).
background to complaint
In late November 2011 all of the necessary paperwork  (application forms etc.) was 
completed for the switch of two personal  pensions to a SIPP.  Paperwork was also completed 
to make two investments  in UCIS within the SIPP. A suitability report was sent to Mr L on 9 
December 2011.  This report sets out the reasons  for recommending the switch  of the 
personal pensions  to the SIPP. The report made no mention of the UCIS.  
In 2014 Mr L became  aware that the two UCIS  investments had failed. This prompted  him to 
contact a solicitor to investigate a potential claim.  As part of this process  the solicitor  made  a 
number of information requests to various  parties.  However, neither legal proceedings nor a 
complaint were started.
In October  2015 Mr L was declared bankrupt. Solicitors acting for his trustee in bankruptcy 
(TIB) complained to the firm in June  2016.  They then complained to this service  in March 
2017. Based  on arguments put forward by the firms solicitors (that only Mr L could complain 
rather than his TIB) the investigator contacted Mr L to obtain  his authority to complain. This 
was not finally received  until January  2018.   
At this point the firm objected to our looking at the complaint as it considered it had been 
made too late. An investigator looked at the complaint  and agreed  that it had been made too 
late. Mr L didnt  agree  and it was passed to me for a decision.   
I told the firm at this point that I was minded to treat the reason for the delay as meeting the 
definition of exceptional circumstances. My initial view was that the reason why a complaint 
hadnt been made earlier was that Mr L incorrectly, but reasonably, thought  that he wasnt 
able to complain.
The firm disagreed with this argument. It said Mr L should not be granted  extra time to 
complain as a result  of his bankruptcy. It also said that too much was being  made  of the 
difference between  Mr Ls complaint and the TIBs complaint. Ultimately the complaint, 
whoever makes it, is for the benefit  of Mr L or his creditors.
Having considered the firms arguments I reconsidered this point. I issued a provisional  
decision that covered  jurisdiction and merits. My provisional conclusion was that it was a 
complaint that we could look at and that it should be upheld.  
In my provisional decision I said the following:
I will first consider whether this complaint has been made in time. The first thing  I need  to 
establish is when  the complaint was first referred to this service, or the firm.
The TIB complained  to the firm (actually  the AR) on 28 June 2016. This was followed up by 
a complaint to this service which was received on 15 March 2017.
Ref: DRN698206412In a letter to this service,  the firms solicitors argued  that Mr L had not actually complained  to 
us until 6 February 2018  being the date at which a complaint form bearing his signature  
was received. This letter suggested there were two complaints  the TIBs complaint and Mr 
Ls complaint. It also made a legal argument that as a bankrupts SIPP  did not form part of 
his assets it was not possible  for the TIB to make a complaint about  the SIPP. It cited  two 
legal cases in support  of this argument. The solicitor wrote:
This provision was considered in Robert William Leslie  Horton  v Michael Gerard Henry 
[2014] EWHC 4209 (Ch) where benefits  had yet to be taken form the bankrupt's SIPP  and in 
Lloyd Edward Hinton  (Trustee in bankruptcy of John Wotherspoon) v John Wotherspoon  
[2016] EWHC 621 (Ch) where  the drawdown  of pension benefits  had commenced. In both 
cases, the Court concluded that the funds within the bankrupt's SIPP  were  outside his estate 
so that the trustee in bankruptcy could  not claim against or access  funds within  the 
bankrupt's SIPP.
If the Trustee has no claim over the assets within  the SIPP,  we see no basis  for a claim by 
the Trustee against Caerus in relation to the SIPP or the assets within it.
Similarly, if the Trustee has no claim against  the assets of the SIPP, there  would appear  to 
be no basis on which the FOS can award  redress to the Trustee. Consequently, we do not 
see how - or to what end - the Trustee can make a complaint  of this nature to the FOS.
The Trustee  is not in our view an eligible complainant.
The Trustee  does not in our view enjoy any cause of action in relation  to the SIPP  or its 
assets.
This argument was accepted by the investigator who then went  on to obtain the authority of 
Mr L. The delay in obtaining Mr Ls express  authority resulted in a complaint in his name not 
being made until February 2018.  If this is the date the complaint was referred  to this service 
it would  have been made too late.
My original thought was that the delay in Mr L complaining was due to exceptional  
circumstances. Being that Mr L was told that the ability to complain rested  with the TIB 
(rather than him). Mr L only complained  in his sole name once he had secured the rights  to 
complain from the TIB (in return  for £750). 
In response to this argument the firms new solicitor put forward  a different  argument   that 
there was no distinction between  the TIBs complaint and Mr Ls complaint and that in reality 
the only complainant  was Mr L. It said:
A claim  pursued by the trustee in bankruptcy (the TIB) on behalf  of Mr L's creditors is a 
claim pursued for the benefit  of Mr L also, since  it is intended  to recoup monies for his 
creditors and to discharge liabilities  he has created  and/or incurred.
In our clients view, too much has been  made by the Ombudsman  of the distinction between 
a claim pursued by or on behalf of the TIB and a claim pursued by Mr L  in our clients  
submission a complaint  pursued by or on behalf of the TIB is also a claim pursued for the 
benefit of Mr L since  it is pursued  for the benefit  of his creditors and for the purposes of 
discharging his obligations and liabilities,  with any surplus payable to Mr L.
Ref: DRN698206413In light of these  conflicting  arguments  I have looked at this point  again.   
Under the DISP  rules  an eligible  complainant  must be:
A consumer
A micro enterprise
A charity
A trustee  of a trust
The DISP  rules also say:
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased person who 
would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised  by the eligible complainant  
or authorised by law.
The legal position as regards which assets  form part of a bankrupts estate isnt entirely 
clear. The two cases quoted do suggest that pension assets do not form part of the 
bankrupts estate. There is however, an apparently  contradictory judgement (Raithatha v 
Williamson [2012] EWHC 909 (Ch), [2012]  3 All ER 1028)  which suggests this is not correct.  
However, I do not consider that deciding  which assets do or do not form part of Mr Ls estate 
for the purposes  of his bankruptcy  is something  which I have the power  to do. I consider  this 
power rests  with the TIB and in the event of a dispute this would be resolved by the courts.
It seems  that the TIBs view was that Mr Ls SIPP was part of his estate for the purposes of 
bankruptcy. Mr L and the TIB have now reached  agreement that the right to complain now 
rests solely with Mr L. Given this my provisional conclusion is that when the complaint was 
first made by the TIB it was authorised by law to complain on behalf of Mr L.
The upshot  of this is that my provisional  conclusion is that for the purposes  of time limits the 
complaint was referred to this service  on 15 March  2017 and to the firm on 28 June  2016.   
The Financial Ombudsman  Service operates under the dispute  resolution (DISP) rules
which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Handbook.
The original  advice was given in late 2011.  Whilst the SIPP advice is well documented the 
UCIS advice  isnt. There is no documentary evidence that shows the UCIS advice was given 
by the AR. The SIPP  application forms were completed on 29 November 2011. I think  this is 
the date that the advice was given,  putting  the advice into place took place a short  time 
afterwards.
On the six year limb Mr L had until 29 November  2017 to refer his complaint.
I think it is accepted  that the three  year clock starts running from the point at which Mr L 
found out that the two UCIS had failed. Mr L has said he learned  that the two investments 
had failed in late 2013 (he hasnt  specified  an exact  date). Mr L therefore  had three years  
from this date to complain i.e. before late 2016.  
DISP 2.8.2 R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
Ref: DRN698206414more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other
record of the complaint  having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP  2.8.2R or 
DISP 2.8.7R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
The time limit stops when  a complaint is referred  either to this service or the firm.
The complaint was referred  to the firm on 28 June 2016.
On that basis the complaint has been made  in time. It was made before November 2017  
when the six year time limit ended. It was also probably made  within three years of when Mr 
L knew he had cause  for complaint. Although given Mr L isnt specific  about when he knew 
the investments  had failed beyond late 2013 I cant be entirely sure.
The firms solicitor has highlighted the protracted nature of the dispute which has been  
ongoing since 2014. I appreciate this has been  time consuming and inconvenient for the 
firm. However,  I dont  think  is sufficient reason not to look at a complaint that has been  made  
in time. Mr L had six years to refer his complaint to this service and the complaint was made 
within this time limit. The earlier dealings were at a time when legal  proceedings rather  than 
a complaint to the ombudsman service were  contemplated.  However,  the rules do not 
require a complainant to commit to either  legal  action or a complaint to the ombudsman 
service. A consumer is entitled  to change approach if they wish.
Merits of the complaint
There are further jurisdiction issues in this complaint. If advice was given to invest  in the 
UCIS (and there is very little evidence to show what actually happened) then it seems likely 
that the AR was acting outside the terms of its agreement with the firm (its principal). In such 
a situation the principal  may not be responsible.  A principal is only liable for the actions of its 
AR in respect of the business for which it has accepted  responsibility  (section  39(3)  of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). 
It has been suggested by the firm that the UCIS  advice was in fact given by a separate  non 
regulated business operated by the AR called  Waterloo Alternatives.  This might be correct  
although Mr L has said he was not aware of this distinction and just thought that he was 
dealing with the AR. There is no contemporaneous  documentary evidence that shows any 
involvement of the unregulated firm.   
However, whilst  there is uncertainty about  the UCIS advice it is not in dispute that advice 
was given about the SIPP. It is also accepted that the firm is responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by its AR. When giving SIPP advice, consideration  must be given, if known, to the 
investments to be held within the SIPP.   
Ref: DRN698206415This has been made clear by a number of statements made by the FCA. For example on 
January 2013  the FCA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Whilst this was issued  after the advice was given to Mr L, I consider  it was not a new 
requirement of the FCA but rather a reminder  of what the rules  in force at the time of the 
advice were.  
Therefore, when giving  the advice to transfer  the personal pension to the SIPP, the adviser 
should have considered the investments to be held within the SIPP.  However, to do so 
would require the AR to know what the intended  investments to be held within the SIPP  
were.
The suitability report of 9 December 2011 suggests that no decisions had been  made  about  
the investments  to be held within the SIPP. This report said the following:  
You advised me that you would like to transfer  your existing pension arrangements  into a 
Self Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) as this will give you extra control,  choice and 
flexibility in your pension  planning and will also allow you to invest in different asset classes. 
You would like to explore  other alternative investment classes  which  are not allowable  within  
a traditional pension plan.
You are fully aware that we are unable to compare  the fund performance on a like for like 
basis as you have  not yet decided on where you would like to invest
As you have not yet made your final decisions  on where your money is to be invested  your 
existing pension arrangements will be transferred  into your new SIPP  and held on cash 
deposit until such time as you wish to re direct into the investments of your choice.
Ref: DRN698206416However, a large  number  of documents were signed by Mr L on 29 November 2011.  It 
seems likely that this was the date that the advice was actually given. These documents  
include the following:
The SIPP application  signed by Mr L and witnessed by the AR
A SIPP operators appropriateness  form confirming understanding  of the risks of 
investing in Harlequin  and SCS
An application form for SCS Farmland  (which records  the AR as being Mr Ls IFA)
Transfer requests  for the Aegon and Met Life pensions
An identity verification check
A pension planning  fact find
Given the weight  of documentary evidence signed  by Mr L on 29 November 2011, which 
clearly shows  that the decision  to invest  in Harlequin and SCS had already been made, I am 
satisfied that the comments in the suitability report are not accurate.
Therefore my provisional conclusion is that when  Mr L was advised to transfer his personal  
pensions to a SIPP, the AR knew that the intended  investments  were  Harlequin and SCS 
Farmland. It follows  that suitability of the SIPP advice should  have taken  into consideration 
the UCIS  investments to be held in the SIPP.
Was the SIPP advice suitable?
Both SCS Farmland and Harlequin have been described so far as UCIS. However, the 
various documents detailing these investments do not expressly confirm  whether this is the 
case. The SCS documents specifically state that the investment wasnt a UCIS. However, I 
am not persuaded that this is accurate. The three  key requirements for a UCIS  are:
The investor must have no day to day control of the investment
And either or both of the following must  apply:
Contributions or profits and income are pooled
The scheme property  is managed  as a whole by or on behalf  of the operator 
Whilst investors owned individual properties  in the Harlequin developments they did not 
have day to day control of the property which was delegated to Harlequin.  In addition the 
Harlequin resort was managed as a whole.  I am satisfied that because of this the Harlequin 
investment was a UCIS. This is the view the ombudsman service  has taken, as have other 
organisations. For example the FSCS has concluded that Harlequin was likely an investment 
and is paying  compensation claims on that basis.
Reading the SCS information memorandum it also seems that these conditions  were met. 
Mr L would  appear  to have leased  a plot of land in Argentina. The plots of land together 
formed part of a farm. This was to be cleared  and crops  planted.  Investors would be paid a 
fixed annual return generated by the sale of the crops. Investors  would not have day to day 
control and the farm would be managed  as a whole. Investors would be paid a fixed return 
rather than the return generated  by their individual plot. Because of this I consider the three 
tests set out above have been met.
Ref: DRN698206417However, I dont think whether the two investments were UCIS or not is the key to the 
outcome of the complaint.  Whatever, the precise  nature  of the investments I am satisfied 
these would be considered to be higher risk investments.
Harlequin involved buying an off plan property  in an emerging market.  Such  markets  have  
less protection  for investors  such as less well established legal systems. There were  all the 
risks associated with the construction of the property. Mr L was only paying a deposit  for the 
property and would require finance to be available to complete the property purchase.  The 
success of the investment  was also reliant  on the success of the resort  and whether the 
rental income was sufficient to meet the financing  costs.   
SCS Farmland involved  an investment in uncleared land in Argentina. The land needed to 
be cleared and then crops  would be planted.  The sale of crops  would  generate the returns 
paid to investors. Investors  were subject to the vagaries of crop production  as well as the 
fluctuations in crop prices.
For these reasons I am satisfied that both Harlequin and SCS would generally be considered  
to be higher risk investments.  
Were Harlequin and SCS Farmland suitable  investments for Mr L?
There are three elements to determining suitability. These are set out in COBS 9.2. A 
recommended investment  must:  
 meets the investors investment objectives
 is such that the investor is able financially to bear any related investment  risks 
consistent with his investment  objectives;  
 is such that the investor has the necessary experience and knowledge in order  to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was recorded as motivated. This was described as follows:
A Motivated Investor is willing to accept  a higher level of risk on their investment in return  for 
higher returns in the long run. They are willing to accept a good amount  of fluctuation in the 
value of their investments  as a result. They would feel comfortable if their investments  fell in 
value more than one quarter in one year and would see this as a time to ride out the storm 
rather than a time to purchase more.
This was the second highest risk rating  on the form.
In my view the above description is vague and fails to give any real information about what 
this risk category would include. Although I think it is reasonable to assume that this 
category represents  an above average  level of risk. On that basis it might be argued  that the 
investments match the attitude to risk of Mr L. However, I am not persuaded that motivated  
was an accurate reflection of the risk that Mr L was prepared to take. The fact find completed 
at the time of the advice  shows that apart from his pension Mr L had no other investments 
and that all of his savings were  in cash. The risk ratings of Mr Ls personal  pensions were 
cautious for the Met Life pension  and balanced for the Aegon pension.  Given  this I am not 
persuaded that the high risk rating  recorded for Mr L was reasonable.
However, even if this is correct I dont  think the advice was suitable.
Ref: DRN698206418This was Mr Ls sole pension provision and as such I consider that he was not in a position  
to bear the risks associated with the SIPP. An investor who places the entirety of his pension 
into a SIPP  for the express purpose  of investing in two unregulated, high risk investments is 
taking a very substantial  risk. I consider that Mr L did not have the capacity to bear this level 
of risk with his pension.  Mr L was reliant  on these two investments for the totality of his 
pension income.  Any significant loss on these  investments would have had a serious impact 
on his retirement income.  
I am also not persuaded that Mr L had the knowledge  and experience to understand the 
risks involved. The fact find completed  in November 2011 shows  that Mr L had very limited 
investment experience. Apart from his personal pensions he held no other investments and 
all his savings were  in the form of cash. These were unusual high risk investments and the 
risks associated with them were well outside what even a typical retail  investor  would 
encounter  let alone one with the limited experience of Mr L. 
This conclusion is consistent with the comments made in the case of Burns v FCA (Burns v 
FCA Upper Tribunal [2018] UKUT 0246 (TCC))
It would be readily  apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an unsophisticated  
retail investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by interests in a defined 
benefit scheme or in a personal pension invested in a spread of traditional investments, to 
switch his benefits into a SIPP which was to be wholly invested in either a single or very 
small number of inherently risky overseas property  investments was a wholly unsuitable  
course of action for that investor to take.  
My provisional conclusion is that the advice Mr L received to transfer his personal  pensions 
to a SIPP for the purpose of investing in two high risk overseas  property  investments  was 
unsuitable. I consider:
It exceeded the level of risk he was prepared to take
It was not consistent with his financial circumstances
He did not have the knowledge and experience to understand the level of risk he was 
taking
I am also satisfied that losing the entirety  of his pension savings would have  been  upsetting  
for Mr L. I consider that £500 would be a suitable  sum to compensate  him for this.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would  probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr L would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr L's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
 
what should  the firm do?
 
To compensate Mr L fairly, the firm must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr L's investments with that of the benchmark 
Ref: DRN698206419shown below.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value,  there is a gain. Losses and gains  should then be combined.  If there  is an 
overall loss, that is the amount of compensation payable.
The firm should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, the firm should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If the firm is unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr L £500 for upset caused by the loss of his entire pension provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If the firm deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. The firm should  give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN698206420investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SCS 
Farmlandstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Harlequin still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The 
firm should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If the firm is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. The firm may require  that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay 
the firm any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. The firm will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN698206421fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if the firm totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude. 
The benchmark set out above is a lower risk one than the attitude to risk recorded at the 
time of the advice.  However, as set out above  I do not consider that this was an accurate 
reflection of the level of risk that Mr L was prepared to take.  Given his circumstances at the 
time of the advice  I consider that Mr L should have been advised  not to take such a high 
level of risk. For these reasons I consider that the benchmark set out above is reasonable.
The firm didnt agree  with my provisional  decision.
It maintains there are two complaints - Mr Ls complaint  and the TIBs complaint.  
It says the complaint referred to the firm on 28 June 2016 and to this service  on 15 March 
2017 was a complaint made  by the TIB. It was not a complaint  made by Mr L. However, the 
TIB is not an eligible  complainant and so we cant look at this complaint.   Mr L did not make 
a complaint to this service until January 2018.  This complaint has been made too late.
In respect of the merits of the complaint  it made the following points:
The firm did not know that the intended investments  in the SIPP were two UCIS. This is not 
business for which Caerus  has accepted  responsibility for the purposes of 39(3)  of FSMA.
The suggestion that the purpose of the SIPP switch was to enable the UCIS investments is 
contradicted by documentary evidence. The suitability report  confirms that no decision had 
been made as to the investment of the SIPP monies. As far as the firm was concerned the 
purpose of the SIPP was not to facilitate  UCIS  investments.
Ref: DRN698206422If the UCIS were not recommended by the AR, it considers that to hold the firm responsible 
would be wrong.   
As the firm didnt agree that we can look at the complaint or that it should be upheld it made 
no comment on the proposed redress.
It also said that it was procedurally unfair  to issue a provisional decision on jurisdiction and 
merits without giving  it an opportunity to make arguments on the merits.  
Mr L agreed with my provisional  decision and had nothing further to add.
my provisional findings
The firms solicitor said that it was procedurally unfair to issue  a provisional decision which  
covered both jurisdiction  and merits as it has not had the opportunity to make arguments  
about merits. I dont  agree  with this.  
DISP 3.5.1 says:
The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve  complaints at the earliest  possible stage and by 
whatever means  appear to him to be most appropriate, including  mediation or investigation.
DISP 3.5.4 says:
If the Ombudsman decides  that an investigation  is necessary,  he will then:
(1) ensure both parties have been given  an opportunity of making representations;
(2) send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time limit 
within which  either party must respond; and
(3) if either party indicates disagreement  with the provisional assessment within  that time 
limit, proceed to determination.
Whilst the submissions made  by the firm and their solicitors  latterly have concentrated on the 
issue of jurisdiction it is clear on considering all of the dealings  between the firm, this service 
and Mr L what the firms  position is as regards the merits of the complaint. The firms  
argument consistently made throughout is that the firm has no knowledge of any UCIS 
advice, there  is no evidence that the AR gave the UCIS advice and in any event did not 
authorise its AR to give UCIS advice. The firms response to my provisional decision did not 
put forward any new arguments merely reiterated the above arguments. I am therefore  
satisfied that issuing a provisional decision covering  both merits and jurisdiction was not 
inappropriate and was consistent with the above DISP rules.
However, I have decided to issue a second  provisional decision to be absolutely clear that 
the firm has had the opportunity to consider and respond to the arguments about the merits 
of the complaint. I have also added some further arguments about  jurisdiction.     
Issues in this case are complex both in terms of merits and jurisdiction.  It is correct  to say 
that a variety  of arguments have been put to the firm before I issued a provisional decision.  
For example I did suggest to the firm that the delay in Mr L complaining might be considered  
to be due to exceptional circumstances. The firm have described these exchanges as 
decisions. I dont  think this is correct. These were attempts to introduce arguments that 
Ref: DRN698206423hadnt previously  been made in order to gauge the strength of them  and any response the 
firm wanted to make. It remains  my view that we should treat the complaint made by the TIB 
in June 2016 as valid. However, if this is not correct, and to be clear  I dont think  it is, I 
consider that the reason  for the delay would count  as exceptional  circumstances. I have 
therefore decided  to incorporate these arguments  in this second  provisional decision.
jurisdiction 
I will first consider the issue of jurisdiction.
The firms argument is essentially that there  are two complaints; the TIBs complaint  and Mr 
Ls complaint. It has said:
Again therefore  [TIBs sols] made  it clear  that they were  acting  for and referring a complaint 
to the FOS on behalf of [the TIB]rather  than for or on behalf  of Mr L.
It is quite clearthat the FOS understood  as was clearly the position  that the original 
complaint had been pursued by [TIBs sols] on behalf of [the TIB] and that a complaint was 
only pursued by or on behalf of Mr L when the new complaint form was issued.
The firm has also said that the TIB isnt an eligible complainant. Therefore a first complaint 
was referred by an ineligible complainant (the TIB) and a second complaint, made by Mr L, 
has been made too late.       
I do not agree with the firms arguments.   
A complaint is defined  in the glossary  to the FCA handbook as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person  about the provision of, or failure to provide,  a financial service.
Putting aside who is making the various  complaints, what is being  complained  about is the 
same thing. That is the alleged advice given  to Mr L in November/December 2011,  to switch 
two personal pensions to a SIPP  and to then invest in two UCIS. This is the financial service 
that is being complained about. As it is the provision  of only one financial service  that is 
being complained about, there is only one complaint.  
The issue  is not whether there are one or two complaints,  but who has the authority to bring 
the single  complaint that exists. The firms characterisation as there being two complaints  is, 
in my view,  wrong.  
The firm has argued that the TIB is not an eligible complainant. It says the TIB does not have 
the authority to bring a complaint about  the advice  given to Mr L in November/December 
2011.  
An eligible  complainant is defined in DISP 2.7.3  as follows:
An eligible  complainant must be a person that is:
(1) a consumer;
(2) a micro-enterprise  ;
Ref: DRN698206424(a) in relation to a complaint relating wholly or partly to payment services, either at the 
time of the conclusion  of the payment service  contract or at the time the complainant 
refers the complaint to the respondent; or
(b) otherwise, at the time the complainant refers the complaint to the respondent;
(3) a charity which has an annual income  of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  
refers the complaint to the respondent;
(4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value  of less than £1 million at the time the 
complainant refers the complaint to the respondent; or
(5) (in relation to CBTL business ) a CBTL consumer .
The TIB does not meet any of these definitions. Mr L is a consumer and meets the above  
definition of an eligible  complainant. However  the DISP 2.7.2 says:
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased person who 
would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised  by the eligible complainant  
or authorised by law.
So the TIB could  only bring a complaint if it were  authorised by the consumer or authorised 
by law.
Section 283 of the Insolvency  Act 1986 defines the bankrupts estate as: 
(a) All property belonging to or vested in the bankrupt at the commencement of the 
bankruptcy; or (b) any property which is or is treated  as being comprised in the estate by 
virtue of the provisions of the Act which relate  to the insolvency of individuals.
Under section 436 of the Act, the term property is defined widely. It includes:
 ...money, goods,  things in action, and every description of property wherever situated and 
also obligations and every description of interest, whether present or future or vested or 
contingent, arising out of, or incidental  to, property.
So on the face of it the right to complain  about  investment advice  would be covered by the 
definition of property  and as such would form part of the bankrupts estate. The TIB would 
therefore be authorised by law to pursue  a claim,  where that claim forms part of the 
bankrupts estate.
The Insolvency Service website (guide  to insolvency section 61.24) provides the following 
guidance:
All rights and benefits under an approved pension are excluded from the bankrupts estate.  
This exclusion would include not only the right to receive a pension payment and lump  sum, 
but also any ancillary benefits such as a death  benefit.  Any right to bring  a claim (a right of 
action) where that right arises from the pension arrangement would  similarly be excluded 
from the estate.
So it would appear that the right to complain  arising  from the pension  is also outside the 
bankrupts estate. Whilst it is not entirely  clear it seems likely, as the firm has argued, that 
the position of the TIB is wrong and that the SIPP and associated claims/complaints do not 
Ref: DRN698206425form part of the estate. It is argued  therefore that the TIB is not able to bring a complaint   as 
it is not authorised  by law to bring a complaint arising from pension  assets.
Whilst this seems correct on the face of it, it is by no means certain. We have not had the 
benefit of any arguments from the TIB as to why he thinks he has the authority to complain.  
The relevant  court cases all dealt  with undrawn  (uncrystallised) pension  funds. However,  Mr 
Ls pension funds  were crystallised  so his position may be different.  Also a complaint about  
advice given to a SIPP investor might  not be considered to be a right that arises  from a 
pension arrangement.      
However, I do not consider that it is within my power, or for that matter the firms, to resolve 
this. The TIB has asserted its right to complain about the investment advice given to Mr L. 
Whether this is correct or not is a matter for Mr L and the TIB to resolve. If agreement cannot  
be reached then the matter would need to be resolved by the courts.  
Section 303 of the Insolvency  Act 1986 says:
If a bankrupt  or any of his creditors  or any other person is dissatisfied  by any act, omission  
or decision of a trustee of the bankrupts estate, he may apply  to the court;  and on such an 
application the court may confirm, reverse or modify  any act or decision of the trustee, may 
give him directions  or may make such other order as it thinks  fit.
So it is up to the courts to resolve any dispute  that arises between a TIB and a bankrupt.  
Whether the TIB or Mr L had the right to bring  the complaint  is a matter for them to resolve, 
not this service. In the absence of any legal  challenge  to the TIBs decision to pursue a 
complaint about  the SIPP assets  I consider I must assume that the complaint referred to this 
service in June 2016 by the TIB was referred by an entity authorised  in law.  
So to recap:
The disputed advice  was given in November/December 2011.   
A complaint must be made within six years of the event  being  complained  about  or, if 
later, within three years of when the complainant knew  or ought  reasonably  to have 
known they had cause for complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr L was aware he had cause for complaint in late 2013. It is 
accepted that the complaint, whoever  made it, has been  referred  more  than three  
years after this date.
Therefore for the complaint to be have been made in time it needed to be referred 
either to this service  or to the firm before  December 2017  being  six years after the 
event complained about.
A complaint about the November/December 2011 advice was referred  to the firm in 
June 2016 and then to this service in March  2017.  
Both of these dates  are within six years of the events being complained of. The 
complaint has therefore been made  in time.
The complaint  made  by the TIB was a complaint  made by an entity authorised  in law.
Mr L has subsequently acquired the rights to the complaint from the TIB in return for a cash  
payment. I am therefore satisfied that Mr L now has the authority to continue  the complaint  
initiated by the TIB in 2016.
However, even if the above is not correct  and the only complaint that has been made is the 
one made  by Mr L, it would still be my view that this complaint would  be one that we can 
Ref: DRN698206426look at. As referred to earlier I put an argument to the firm that the reason that the complaint 
made by Mr L was made too late was due to exceptional circumstances. The exceptional 
circumstances being that Mr L did not bring a complaint earlier because he was under the 
impression that a compliant could only be made by the TIB and that it was reasonable for 
him to have  accepted what the TIB said.
In the period following  Mr Ls bankruptcy the TIB has consistently maintained that he, rather  
than Mr L, has the right to bring  a complaint. He has required Mr L to make  a payment to 
acquire the right to complain.  
The DISP  rules give only one example  of exceptional circumstances being  when  the 
consumer is incapacitated. The firm has said,  and I agree, that the issue  of exceptional  
circumstances should be decided on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The TIB is appointed  by the Official  Receiver to deal with the affairs of a bankrupt.  In my 
view a layperson would reasonably assume that a TIB would be an expert in the law 
surrounding bankruptcy. To challenge a decision of the TIB would require legal  knowledge or 
advice. And, in the event the dispute  could not be resolved, the means  to pursue a court 
case. In my view, in practice, these  options  were not available  to Mr L.
The letter that Mr L received from his solicitors  on 20 April 2016 appeared to confirm  the 
position of the TIB that it rather than Mr L had the right to bring  a claim (as opposed to a 
complaint) against  the firm. However, I dont think it is correct to characterise  this as legal 
advice. The solicitor  had been engaged to pursue a possible claim against the firm on a no 
win no fee basis. In view of the limited terms of its appointment I dont think the letter can be 
considered to be legal advice. If this is wrong  it is possible  that Mr L could have a valid claim 
against his solicitors. However,  this is a separate issue to whether Mr L ought reasonably to 
have made  a complaint to the firm earlier than he did.  
It is correct to say that the root cause of the delay is Mr Ls bankruptcy. If he had not been 
declared bankrupt then there  would  have been  no involvement of a TIB and no issues  about 
his eligibility as a complainant. I do not agree that this is the same as saying that Mr L is 
getting extra  time to complain because of his bankruptcy.
Mr L has missed  the deadline  for complaining by only a short time  about six weeks.  This is 
also a complaint (putting aside the eligibility  of the complainant) that the firm has been  aware  
of for a long time. Whilst a legal action was originally contemplated a complaint was made to 
the firm in 2016. So this is not a complaint that has arisen out of the blue many years after 
the event being complained about.     
A complaint form signed by Mr L was received by this service on 15 January  2018. The 
original letter  of complaint had been received by this service on 15 March  2017. A complaint 
form signed by the TIB was received  on 24 March  2017. This form listed  the people 
complaining as Mr L and the TIB. It gives little detail and is confused. The complaint  about  
the investment  advice  given in late 2011 is made alongside two different complaints that 
should have been directed to a different  principal.
On receiving the complaint for the ombudsman service department  that deals with the 
administration associated  with the setting up of a new complaint contacted  the TIB to ask 
additionally for the signature of Mr L to be added to the form.
We wrote  the following to the TIB on 24 March 2017:
Ref: DRN698206427Thanks for the complaint  form.  However  we do need the signature  of [Mr L] and a brief 
summary of the complaint on the form.
The TIB replied on 27 March writing:   
Having been  appointed  as Trustee  in the Bankrupt estate of [Mr L][the TIB] has a 
sufficient, vested interest and capacity  to act on behalf of [Mr L] and as such  this interest 
should be sufficient  in regards to [Mr L]s complaint. 
The administrator pressed  the TIB and received the following reply:
A second signature should not be necessary  as the Trustee, has  capacity to sign on 
behalf of Mr L in his right as a Trustee in Bankruptcy. In essence, as a Trustee Mr B 
becomes Mr L and therefore, we do not see why a further signature from Mr L is required?
The first indication that there might have been  any problems in terms of the eligible 
complainant was in November  2016.  The firm had written to the TIB on 16 November 2016 
asking it to confirm  that it was able to bring  a complaint on behalf of the TIB it wrote:  
We would  also be grateful for confirmation  that you also act for the trustees of the SIPP 
and/or whether it is your clients position  that the pension assets of the SIPP vest in him as 
Mr Ls trustee in bankruptcy.  
So despite  having the possibility that the SIPP assets did not vest with it brought  to its 
attention the TIB gave  no indication to either Mr L or this service that it had any doubts about  
his right to complain or pursue a legal claim. Indeed  it remained the TIBs view that the right 
to make a complaint  rested with it rather than Mr L. In its view it only relinquished  this right 
when it was sold back to Mr L in early 2018.
Mr L and, before the complaint was considered  in detail, this service  took at face value  what 
the TIB said. The TIB has maintained throughout that it rather  than Mr L had the right to 
bring a complaint or a legal claim.  In my view it was reasonable for Mr L and at least  initially 
this service to have accepted what the TIB said at face value. In my view it was entirely 
reasonable to make  the assumption  that the TIB would be an expert in these matters  
If the TIB had accepted  this services request to obtain Mr Ls signature it is highly likely that 
Mr Ls authority to complain would  have been  obtained well before the December 2017 
deadline.  
The TIB formally  wrote to Mr Ls solicitor  to confirm that it rather  than Mr L had the rights  to 
pursue a complaint/claim. I consider it reasonable to assume that if the TIB had become 
aware that this was not correct it would  have told Mr L this was the case.  
Having considered the above sequence  of events it is my view that if the TIB had concluded 
that it did not have  the right to complain  or even  entertained the possibility that Mr L might be 
an eligible complainant, a complaint properly authorised by Mr L would have been  made  
sooner than it was.  
In any event the TIBs right to complain can only be decided by the court. If this service had 
decided that Mr L was the eligible  complainant and awarded compensation to him I consider 
it would  be open  to a claim by the TIB.
Ref: DRN698206428If the TIB is not authorised to bring the complaint, for the reasons given above, I consider 
that the delay  in Mr L complaining was due to exceptional circumstances. The exceptional 
circumstances being the TIBs insistence that it was authorised to bring a complaint.  
The remaining jurisdiction  issues
The firm has also argued that it is not responsible for any UCIS advice that might have been 
given by the AR.
I will consider  this point  in three stages:
What is the complaint
What are the regulated activities being complained  about
Is the firm responsible for these actions of its AR
The complaint
The presentation of the complaint by the TIB and originally  by Mr Ls solicitor hasnt been 
particularly clear. This complaint has been  mixed  with other complaints about a loan and 
mortgage advice  that should have been  directed against another principal. However, I 
consider that what Mr Ls complaint is can be established from the following written by the 
TIB:
We understand that the Bankrupt  was provided  with some financial advice by [the AR] 
and/or Openwork Limited and/or Caerus  Financial Management  in respect  of the following:
1. An interest  only mortgage with Birmingham  Midshires;
2. A loan with Blemain  Finance; and
3. A transfer of his Aegon and Metlife  Pensions to a SIPP with Guardian Pension
Consultants/Guardian Pension Trustees Limited  in order  to invest  the same into an off-plan 
purchase of a property  in St Lucia for £165,000 from Harlequin Resorts (St Lucia) Limited.
We understand that the Bankrupt  was advised  to invest in two high risk and unregulated 
collected investment  schemes and, as such, [the AR] and/or Openwork Limited and/or 
Caerus Financial Management.
In doing so [the AR]and/or Openwork Limited and/or Caerus Financial  Management were  
professionally negligent.  As a result of the same  we on behalf of the Trustee wish to lodge a 
formal complaint which we expect you to deal with in line with your complaints procedure.
The purpose of the switch  to the SIPP was said to be to invest  in Harlequin (an overseas  
property investment). This is actually one of the two UCIS which is the subject of the 
complaint  demonstrating the lack of clarity  about what exactly the complaint is. 
The firms response to this letter dated 17 August 2016 said:
It is correct that [the AR] did assist Mr L in establishing a Guardian  Self Invested Personal  
Pension ("the SIPP")  while an appointed representative of CAERUS.
CAERUS is of course willing to provide a response pursuant  to its complaints procedure in 
relation to the SIPP.
Ref: DRN698206429Having considered the above my conclusion is that the complaint that Mr L is making is that 
he was advised  to switch a number  of personal pensions to a SIPP  for the purpose  of 
making investments  in two UCIS.
The SIPP advice is well documented. The AR produced  a suitability report  dated 9 
December 2011  setting out the reasons for the recommendation of switching a number of 
personal pensions  to a SIPP. However,  there  is no written record of any UCIS advice and 
whether the AR gave any advice about  the UCIS is disputed by the firm.  
The regulated activities
Both the SIPP/personal  pensions and the UCIS  are specified investments as per article 82 
and article 81 of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO). Advice to switch  a personal pension  
to a SIPP would be regulated investment advice as per article 53 of the RAO. Similarly 
advice to invest in the two UCIS  would be regulated investment advice.    
The responsibility of the firm for any advice given
The firms position is that its AR did not give advice about UCIS. Any advice given about the 
UCIS would have been given by an unregulated firm operated  by the AR. Even  if advice had 
been given it would  not be advice  for which the firm was responsible.   
Section 39(3) of FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted it, for anything done  or omitted  by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The firm says that it did not authorise its AR to give UCIS advice and is therefore not 
responsible.
In respect of the SIPP advice the firm have provided a copy of the recommendation report  of 
December 2011.  It was aware of and had copies of the necessary documentation  and did 
not dispute that it was responsible for this advice.  My provisional conclusion  was that this 
was advice that the firm accepted responsibility for. I also note that the firm was paid £1,000 
for the SIPP advice.  As will be discussed later all advice given by an AR must  in addition be 
pre approved by the principal.  
By offering to provide  a response  to a complaint about the SIPP I consider it is implicit in 
what the firm has said that it has accepted  responsibility for the SIPP  advice.
The firm has accepted  that it facilitated  this transaction but has not explicitly said it accepts 
responsibility for it under s 39(3) of FSMA.  
For these reasons I am satisfied that the SIPP advice is business for which the firm has 
accepted responsibility under s 39(3) of FSMA.  
As regards  the UCIS advice the firm has said that even if UCIS advice had been given it 
would not be business for which it had accepted responsibility for under section 39(3)  of 
FSMA.
Ref: DRN698206430The responsibility of a principal for the actions  of an AR is established by a consideration of 
the AR agreement and other associated documents such as a compliance manual. The AR 
agreement authorises  the AR to advise on investments  as per article 53 of the RAO. It does 
not contain any other restrictions  such as a ban on giving UCIS advice. Restrictions placed 
on an AR are not restricted to those set out in the AR agreement  and can include restrictions  
set out in, for example,  a compliance  manual. I am aware that the firms  compliance  manual 
requires all advice to be pre-approved. In addition the firm does not allow  its ARs to give 
UCIS advice. So, on the face of it, the firm is not responsible for any UCIS  advice  the AR 
might have given.
However, that is not necessarily the end of things. Where two pieces of advice are 
inextricably linked they in effect  form a single piece of regulated advice. If any one element 
of the advice is the responsibility of the principal then it will be responsible for the whole of 
the advice. This was made clear  in the case of Tenet Connect v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin). So if the disputed  UCIS advice was inextricably linked to 
the SIPP advice  then all elements of the advice would become the responsibility of the firm.
However, I do not consider that whether the firm accepted responsibility for any UCIS advice 
affects whether  this is a complaint that we can look at. I also dont think  it makes a difference 
whether the AR (rather  than an unregulated  entity) gave UCIS advice. I will not therefore 
make a finding on this point.
To recap:
The AR advised Mr L to switch  two personal  pensions to a SIPP
This is business for which  the firm has accepted responsibility for under s39(3) of 
FSMA
The merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above in my first provisional decision I set out the FCAs requirement on firms 
giving SIPP advice.  The FCA guidance  makes very clear  that when giving SIPP advice  
consideration must be given to the investments to be held within  the SIPP.  If the resultant 
SIPP is unsuitable by virtue of the investments to be held within  the SIPP then the advice to 
switch to the SIPP would also be unsuitable.
So in this case I think the key thing that needs  to be established is whether the AR knew 
what the intended investments to be held within the SIPP were. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I had concluded that the AR knew that the 
investments intended  to be held within the SIPP were two UCIS. In response to this point the 
firm has said the following:
We are unable to comment on this; however, the material fact for present purposes  is that 
Caerus had no knowledge  of this, if this is in fact the case  and this was clearly not business 
for which Caerus has accepted responsibility for the purposes of section 39(3)  of FSMA.
We note that the contemporaneous documentsclearly support the view that:
Ref: DRN698206431No decision or final decision has been taken concerning  the destination of the 
monies to be transferred  to the SIPP when  the SIPP  was recommended - which were 
to be held in cash  pending a decision by Mr L;
The SIPP provider on the other  hand clearly purported to undertake an assessment 
of the UCIS before permitting  the SIPP to effect  investments in them.
  
I accept that the Financial  Planning  Report  says that no decision had been made as to how 
the funds in the SIPP should be invested.  The report said: 
As you have not yet made your final decisions  on where your money is to be invested  your 
existing pension arrangements will be transferred  into your new SIPP  and held on cash 
deposit until such time as you wish to re direct into the investments of your choice.
However, I am not persuaded that this comment in the suitability report  is accurate. The 
evidence is clear that it had been  decided before the December 2011 report was written 
what the investments  intended to be held within the SIPP had been decided.
A SIPP operators appropriateness  form confirming  understanding of the risks of investing in 
Harlequin and SCS (the two UCIS) was completed and dated 29 November 2011. An 
application form for SCS Farmland was completed  on the same day.
So I think it is unarguable  that the comment in the December 2011 report  was inaccurate.
This then leaves the question of whether the AR knew what the intended investments were. 
The two documents referred to above  were not the only documents completed  on 29 
November 2011.  Other documents completed  included:
Completed identity  verification documents for Mr L certified by the AR  
The SIPP application  was signed  by Mr L and witnessed by the AR
A pension planning  fact find was completed
In my view it is clear  from the above  evidence that the AR was present when the various 
forms were completed on 29 November 2011  including the SCS Farmland  application form 
and the appropriateness form.   
So, despite  what the December 2011 suitability report says I am satisfied that a decision had 
been taken by 29 November 2011 to make the investment in the two UCIS within the SIPP  
and this fact was known to the AR.  
If the investments to be held within the SIPP were  unsuitable then the SIPP advice will also 
be unsuitable. When recommending  the SIPP the AR knew that the intended  investments to 
be held within the SIPP were two high risk UCIS.  It matters not whether or not the AR gave 
the UCIS  advice  it is only required  for the AR to know the intended investments. If the AR 
knows the intended investments then the SIPP  advice, as the FCA makes  clear, must be 
take this into account  when  determining  suitability.  
This is confirmed by the FCA comment made  earlier the key part of which  I repeat  here:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
Ref: DRN698206432of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes..
I set out in my provisional decision why I was satisfied that the resulting SIPP  was unsuitable  
for Mr L and how he should  be compensated. The firm have not made  any further comments  
on these points. I therefore confirm that my reasons for concluding  that the SIPP  was 
unsuitable and how Mr L should be compensated are as set out above.  
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that this is a complaint that we can look at and that it should be 
upheld.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982064