K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt deal fairly with a situation that 
occurred when a recovery agent damaged his vehicle.
background
Mr Bs van broke down on a motorway, so he contacted his breakdown service. The policy  is 
underwritten by UKI. It took some time to get the van from the site of the breakdown  to 
Mr Bs garage, so the engine  could  be repaired.  During that period, the van was damaged.  
The damage was to the vans underside and was noted when the garage started  to work on 
it. It seems the van had been  lifted by a fork-lift truck at some  stage after the breakdown. 
UKI accepted responsibility for what  had happened. It thought the likely  cost of repairing the 
damage made the van a total loss. It said it was hard to find a pre-accident  market value for 
it, due to its age, so UKIs engineers had to guess its likely  value.  Eventually  UKI offered 
Mr B £3,000 for the van, plus £250 for inconvenience. 
Mr B said he used  the van for work  and also to live in when he was working away from 
home. So hed had it adapted to allow for all those activities.  He thought  it would cost around 
£4,000 to buy a similar  van, plus over £9,000  to fit it out to the previous level. He said repairs  
to the original van would cost over £8,000. That sum was later reduced to £6,664,  as Mr B 
found one of the parts needed for much  less than the manufacturer  had quoted for it. 
As UKI wouldnt increase its offer, one of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint.  She 
thought the £250  UKI had paid Mr B for inconvenience was reasonable. But she said it 
should either repair the van or pay for Mr B to have  it repaired, in order to put Mr B back  in 
the position he should have been in. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Until Mr Bs van went into the care and control of UKIs agent, the only issue with it was the 
problem with the engine. Mr B was about to have that repaired at his own expense. He 
would then have  had a fully operational van kitted  out for work  purposes and fit to live in 
whilst travelling around the country  for work events. 
I can see from the notes that UKI tried hard to come  up with a reasonable offer for the van. 
The problem is that there were  no true comparators. The age of the van meant there were 
no book  prices for it - and in any event, it was very heavily customised. I think  that caused 
UKI real difficulty. But in order  to put things  right, it has to find away to put Mr B back in the 
position he would have been in but for the damage done by the breakdown service.
I dont think UKIs offer of £3,000 for the vehicle achieves that aim. I can see from the 
adverts UKI found  that there are camper vans with living accommodation advertised for sale 
£2,500 upwards. But as far as I can see, they dont have the same level of modification as 
Mr Bs vehicle.  So if Mr B was able to buy one, hed then have to have it fitted to meet all his 
needs, at his own cost.
Ref: DRN68898052The interior  of Mr Bs van seems to have had a great deal of money  spent on it over the 
years. Mr B got an estimate  for converting  a similar van to include the modifications hed had 
done to the old van. The old vans walls,  roof and floor are all insulated. It seems the cost of 
doing that on a new van would be around  £3,500. The old van also has a kitchen area with 
units, a cooker  and worktops. To add similar items  to anew van would cost another £2,900. 
Presumably, camper vans are insulated (though perhaps not to the standard  of Mr Bs van) 
and many would have cooking  facilities. But a replacement van would also need a number of 
other items to be fitted, including a bed that folds into a wall. Mr Bs van has been  modified 
to create  space for work items / activities. The estimate Mr B has provided for re-fitting from 
scratch shows it would cost over £12,000  to replace the van and create a suitable interior.
As an alternative, UKI could repair the damage  done to the van, or it could pay Mr B to have  
the damage repaired. The cost of that is also high.  Originally, replacing  the parts (including 
the gearbox and prop shaft) was estimated at £8,481. With a used replacement part, the 
cost is estimated at £6,664. Mr B would then have his old van - with the interior  he created 
back in working order.   
In most cases where damage had been caused  to the underside of a vehicle by one of its 
agents, I think UKI would  have been able to deal with the matter  fairly by replacing the van. 
Unfortunately, Mr Bs van was far from average. I dont think he should be out of pocket as a 
result of something that was entirely  the fault of another party. I understand why UKI says it 
wont pay more for repairs that it thinks the van is worth. But if Mr B is only paid £3,000 from 
UKI  and retains  his van - hell have to spend several thousand  pounds  repairing it. I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to expect  him to do that. 
I think the sum UKI paid Mr B for distress and inconvenience is adequate. But given the 
particular circumstances  here, I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI also to have the 
van repaired, or to pay Mr B to have it repaired. I dont think  the quote  and supporting 
estimates Mr B has provided are specific enough. So I think he needs  to give UKI a detailed  
estimate for the £6,664  of repairs and a full invoice  for the work.
   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to repair  the 
damage to the underside of Mr Bs van or pay Mr B for its repair  subject to a detailed 
estimate of the £6,664 cost plus an invoice  for the completed work. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6889805