K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt process  the transfer of two ISA 
accounts as it shouldve done  which caused a delay in transfer.
background
Mr A has complained about two stocks and shares  ISA transfers. The first transfer 
application is dated in August 2018. It completed in the first week  of September  2018. The 
second transfer application is dated in September 2018 and was completed  in November 
2018 although the money was not paid into Mr As account until January 2018 with some  
smaller amounts paid after that relating to dividend payments  that were received.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of the final decision. In short I found that there had been no delay in transfer of the first ISA 
but there was a delay of around  10 working days for the second  ISA. I thought it should 
calculate what Mr A wouldve received from the sell down  of his stocks  and shares if there 
had been no delay.
I also thought  that Nationwide  should  pay £250  for distress and inconvenience caused 
because it didnt transfer the money  into Mr As account for around seven weeks  after the 
transfer had completed. But I didnt think there had been any loss of interest as Nationwide  
would backdate the interest.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Nationwide  said it agreed with my 
provisional decision. Mr A provided  a couple of email responses and then a further written 
response with 99 separate comments on my provisional decision, over 11 pages. I have 
considered everything  he has said but I have not set out every comment as a lot of his points 
repeat points previously  made by him. 
I also note 27 of the points he has made relate  to the background section of my provisional  
decision. So it is clear  the background contains no findings by me so I have in the main 
concentrated on the points Mr A has made about  my actual findings. I have summarised 
what I consider some  of the main points  he has made as follows:
The transfer has still not completed as shown by a statement from the previous 
original ISA provider  for the second  ISA.
One possibility  why the original  ISA provider for the first ISA transfer sent a cheque is 
that Nationwide didnt provide its ST account  details  as with the second ISA transfer 
and this should be checked.
The transfer of the first ISA transfer  had to be delayed until he returned  from holiday 
in June 2018 and when  he got back there  was delay to see if what  he had been told 
had been implemented as he always tries to corroborate information.
Nationwides letters of 4 September 2018  and 10 September 2018  say there will be 
non-payment of interest if the transfer  takes over 30 days but the ombudsman seems  
to be confused as to what these letters mean.
He thinks Nationwide  deliberately didnt transfer  the money from the second ISA 
transfer into his account so that interest  could be stopped. The ombudsman  refuses  
to ask for the letters that show interest so introduces  bias.
The information he got when he visited his Nationwide branch on 3 October  2018  is 
of relevance to what Nationwide did in April 2018 when opening his new ISA, and 
gives the reason  why a scan of his passport was taken.
Ref: DRN69733552The ombudsman has not asked for the recordings from the original ISA provider for 
the second ISA transfer which can confirm what happened.
He signed  the transfer document for the second ISA transfer on the 5 September 
2018 not 7 September  2018 and the ombudsman should request the actual 
document from Nationwide.
It is correct  he didnt  start the first ISA transfer  until August 2018 but initial delay was 
caused by Nationwide providing  the wrong information.
The first ISA transfer was completed on 22 August 2018 by electronic transfer and 
Nationwide then sat on the money  until 4 September 2018 not 5 September  as I have 
stated.
The ombudsman has only viewed some  of the evidence available  the rest he has 
chosen to refuse to view or has ignored when  presented.
I dont have enough information to make an unbiased judgment.
He agrees that I shouldnt have to check out information from a third party but 
Nationwide and the original provider for the second ISA should  be asked to provide 
the information they have.
The first ISA transfer shouldve been completed  in 7-10 days in line with cash  to 
cash ISA transfers.
As with all money accounts  the date the money  is noted by the computer system as 
at the date of receipt and that is the date from which interest  will be calculated.
He was told the £50 redress offered was for the second ISA transfer.
The 10 September 2018 may be the date the transfer team  received the transfer 
request for the second ISA transfer  but not the date he was informed it had been 
received which  was 7 September 2018.
Nationwide were  aware they had sent the transfer request to the wrong business on 
24 September 2018 but received the request on 7 September 2018 so the gap is 17 
days not 10.
He isnt sure whether  he told the person he spoke to at the original ISA provider at 
the beginning of October 2018 that Nationwide could provide a passport copy as it 
only occurred to him later that he could verify his signature with this.
He concluded  he needed to do nothing as the Nationwide transfer team could  contact 
him if it needed anything. He didnt contact  Nationwide to tell it what the original ISA 
provider had said  about signature verification.
He contacted both Nationwide and the original ISA provider on 29 October 2018 and 
both said they were awaiting documents form the other.  He concluded Nationwide  
hadnt sent the photocopy of his passport  and its ST account details. He went into his 
Nationwide branch and the person he spoke to explained they didnt  need  a copy  of 
his passport in April 2018 as he was a long standing customer  when he opened his 
account. He concluded  from this that a copy hadnt  been taken as he thought  in April 
2018. But if he was treated as a new customer by the person he saw at Nationwide in 
April 2018 that would  explain why he was asked for his passport at that time.
If he was wrongly told by the original ISA provider on 3 October 2018 that it needed 
signature verification  this might  explain why it didnt  ask Nationwide for this  if it 
didnt in fact ask.
We wont know what was said between Nationwide and the original ISA provider 
without the recordings.
Interest doesnt  have to be paid until every  penny has been  received as shown in 
Nationwides letters of 4 and 10 September 2018.
He doesnt  know where the figure  of £250 I have referred to has come  from.
Ref: DRN69733553He will accept my date of 5 November 2018  for when the transfer shouldve  
completed if Nationwide hadnt delayed the second ISA transfer  even though this 
loses him a months worth of interest.
He doesnt  know how Nationwide will calculate what his fund was worth  as at 5 
November 2018 but the monies  should  be paid into his ISA account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  to make clear to Mr A that what is set out under the heading background in 
my provisional decision and final decision are not my findings.  In relation to the provisional 
decision the background is a short summary of what  has happened  in the complaint before 
referral to me. 
So I set out in summary the investigators findings,  the key points  from Nationwides 
response to the investigator and also the key points from Mr As response.  I have made no 
comment in the background as to whether I agree or disagree with any of the findings made 
by the investigator  or any of the points raised  by either party.  My findings of fact are all 
contained under the heading  my findings.  
I have made  this clear  because Mr A has wrongly  suggested  I have been  contradictory in 
what I have set out in the background against what is set out in my findings.
I also think it is important to make  clear that we are an informal dispute  resolution service. I 
accept Mr A may want  answers to every question  he has asked but I am not required to 
provide answers  to everything.  The issues in this complaint are whether Nationwide  delayed  
transfer of one or both ISA accounts  and if it did for what period and what  redress  is payable. 
That is what  my findings  concentrate  on.
Mr A has also suggested that I have  only viewed some of the evidence not all the evidence  
available. He has said that I have refused to view some evidence  or ignored it. The 
sentence at the start of my findings  is a standard sentence in all decisions on merits from our 
service. The reference  to available evidence is a reference to all the evidence  that has been 
obtained not all possible evidence that might  exist. 
I have not refused to consider any evidence or ignored any evidence - I have considered 
everything that has been provided. If I have not commented on a piece of evidence that I 
have considered it is because it isnt central to my findings. As I said in my provisional  
decision, it is for me to decide  if I need  further evidence  to make a fair and reasonable 
decision, and I dont think I do in this case.  
The first ISA transfer
Mr A now accepts that he didnt make  the first ISA transfer until August 2018. This is in 
contrast to what he has said previously where  he suggested that the application had been 
made in April or May 2018 after he had clarified  that the information he had been given by 
Nationwide had been wrong.  
Ref: DRN69733554He has now explained  that he didnt make  the application once he had clarified he had been 
given the wrong  information in April 2018,  because he went on holiday and returned  in June 
2018. He has said he then wanted  to corroborate what  he had been told about the 
information being wrong. 
I note what Mr A has said but I dont think it would  be reasonable to hold Nationwide 
responsible for any delay  in making  the first ISA transfer application when he had clarified by 
the end of April 2018 he had been given the wrong  information and then took until August 
2018 to actually make the application.
Mr A has suggested that the transfer  was completed electronically on 22 August 2018 but 
that Nationwide sat on the money  until 4 September 2018. But Nationwide said it received a 
cheque from the original ISA provider at the end of August 2018. Mr A has suggested it may 
not have provided  the ST account details  (this refers to Nationwides  electronic bank details) 
as with the second ISA transfer.
Nationwide has made clear that it received  a cheque and there was no electronic transfer 
and I can see no reason it wouldve got this wrong.  But I dont think  I need  to make any 
finding about exactly when the money  was received by Nationwide or in what  format anyway 
given it has confirmed interest had been backdated and provided evidence of this - I 
comment further on the interest issue below when explaining what Nationwide needs  to do 
to put things right.
Mr A suggests that the transfer  shouldve  only taken seven to ten days as with a cash to 
cash ISA transfer. His ISA was a stocks and shares  ISA and I dont think  the time to transfer  
it was unreasonable.
The second  ISA transfer 
Given Mr A has now agreed 5 November 2018 as the date which Nationwide  should use to 
calculate what his fund was worth I dont think it is necessary to go into any great detail 
about exactly what happened and when. Nothing  he has said changes  the main  findings in 
my provisional decision but I will comment on some of the points he has made.
Mr A has said he thinks he signed  the ISA transfer  form on the 5 September  2018. But the 
copy of the form I have seen has his signature  and the date is 7 September  2018. I am 
satisfied on that evidence that this is the date he completed the form and dont think any 
further evidence  is needed on this point.  I have seen no evidence that he signed earlier  than 
this and Mr As recollection  isnt persuasive evidence he did so.
Mr A has suggested the delay caused by Nationwide sending the transfer request to the 
wrong business is 17 days. But calculations  of time with regard to the transfer of ISAs  are in 
working days not calendar days. And I am satisfied  that the delay caused was around 10 
working days based on Mr A having signed  the transfer form on 7 September  2018.
Mr A has said he doesnt know if he told the original ISA provider that Nationwide had a copy  
of his passport.  But given  he says it only occurred to him later, that this could verify his 
signature, I think it is more likely than not he didnt do so. And even if he had done  so 
Nationwide has no record of the original ISA provider asking it to provide  a copy.
Ref: DRN69733555Mr A has also said he didnt  tell Nationwide that he had been told by the original  ISA provider 
it needed signature verification. So there  was no reason for Nationwide  to think  this was 
needed by the original  ISA provider. So even if it had taken a copy  of his passport it had no 
reason to provide this to the original ISA provider.
What Nationwide should do to put things  right
Nationwide should  backdate interest for both transfers to the date the transfers  were  
received. Nationwide has provided  evidence  to me showing it has actually already done this. 
I am satisfied that the amount currently standing in his account  is made  up of the total 
amount that was paid into his account together with the interest  payable.  With regard to the 
two transfers the interest has been  backdated to 8 August 2018. So Nationwide has paid 
more in interest than it needed to.
Nationwide has paid £50 for the wrong  information  being provided to Mr A for the first ISA 
transfer, which I think is reasonable.
Nationwide should  calculate what Mr A wouldve received  from the second ISA transfer if the 
original ISA provider  had sold down his funds  on 5 November 2018.  If this is higher than 
what he did receive it should pay the difference  and the interest that he wouldve received on 
that amount  if it had been paid into his ISA account  with Nationwide in the first place. 
Nationwide also has to pay £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A for not 
paying the transfer moneys into his account  for around seven weeks. Mr A has asked how 
this figure  has been calculated.  It is what  I think is a reasonable amount for Nationwide  to 
pay him for the distress and inconvenience caused  by not paying the money  from the 
transfer into his account  for around  seven  weeks. This caused obvious concern and 
frustration and involved him having  to chase Nationwide to find out what  was going  on.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision. Nationwide Building Society  has to pay the redress I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69733556COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide  Building Society didnt process the transfer of two ISA accounts  as it 
shouldve done which caused a delay in transfer.
background
Mr A has complained about two stocks and shares ISA transfers. The first transfer application  is dated 
in August 2018 - although  Mr A says he started the application  in April or May 2018.  It completed in 
the first week  of September 2018. The second transfer  application  is dated in September 2018 and 
was completed  in November 2018 although the money was not paid into Mr As account  until January 
2018 with some  smaller amounts paid after that relating to dividend payments that were received.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and made  the following  points:
Nationwide was responsible for delay in the transfer of the second ISA account.
Nationwide sent the request for transfer to the wrong business at the outset.
The wrong  cover letter was sent by Nationwide  which  meant the original ISA provider for the 
second transfer had to chase for Nationwides electronic transfer  (ST) account details which 
wouldnt otherwise have been required.
The original ISA provider for the second transfer had said the transfer wouldve taken it 
around 10 working days once they started  the transfer process
The transfer shouldve been completed by 8 October 2018 instead of 9 January  2019.
Nationwide should calculate what the fund value of the account for the second transfer 
wouldve been on 8 October 2018  and if this is higher  than what was actually  received it 
should pay the difference plus 8% interest.
Nationwide provided conflicting information to Mr A about transfer, in branch, in relation to the 
first ISA transfer which caused delay.
The first ISA transfer shouldve  completed on 11 May 2018 and Nationwide should calculate 
what the fund value of the account was on that date and if this is more than the amount he 
received pay the difference plus 8% interest.
Mr A indicated he accepted the investigators findings in relation to the first ISA transfer but still wasnt 
satisfied with the timeframe  and mistakes made by Nationwide. He said he was still unhappy about  
the receipt of the money by Nationwide and its acknowledgment of receipt in relation to the transfers. 
Mr A questioned whether  the investigator had checked with the two providers  from who his ISAs were  
transferred as to when  the funds were transferred by them to Nationwide. He suggested that if the 
investigator hadnt done  so she had failed in her duty as Nationwide will pay interest from when  it 
credits his account  not when the money is received by it.
He said that having checked with the original  provider  of the first ISA account it had transferred the 
money in the account by 22 August 2018 but Nationwide only acknowledged receipt  on 4 September  
2018 and it was only credited to his account on 5 September  2018.
Mr A also said that his understanding was that Nationwide didnt apply interest to accounts following 
transfer until it had received all the money resulting from the transfer. Mr A sent various emails 
detailing his communication with Nationwide  and the other providers but I have not set out what he 
has said as I dont  think  it is necessary. 
Nationwide didnt agree with the investigator. In short it made the following  points:
Mr A didnt request  transfer of the first ISA until August 2018 and the transfer was completed 
within 13 working days. 
Ref: DRN69733557The transfer of the second ISA was completed on 9 January 2019 and the two payments 
credited to Mr As account in February and March  2019 were  residual dividend payments and 
it didnt think a delay was caused. 
If Mr A feels he has suffered a loss in interest due to the time taken  it will need a statement  of 
funds value  as at 19 October  2018 being the 30 days standard service time for transfer.
It didnt  receive  anything  from the original provider  for the second ISA transfer about  signature 
verification and it didnt say anything about still needing  the ST account  details.
The value of a stocks and shares ISA can fluctuate during the time of transfer  and it can only 
know if there was a financial loss by comparing the value of the funds  between when these 
shouldve been sold down and the value when  they were actually  sold down.
Events other than the delay caused by initially contacting the wrong business are down to the 
original provider for the second ISA.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is important to make clear it is for the parties to provide  the evidence they want me to 
consider when making my decision. It isnt for me to obtain  evidence on behalf of any party although 
there are some circumstances where we may require  evidence from a third party  which the parties  to 
the complaint cant obtain. If I think I need further evidence from a party  before making my decision I 
will ask them to provide  this but it is for me to decide if I need this.
I note Mr A has suggested that it is part of our duty to check, verify and corroborate information  
provided to us from whatever source. So it is clear  my role is to make a fair and reasonable  decision 
based on the evidence  that has been provided  by the parties.  Where there is a dispute about a 
significant fact which we are unable to make a finding on based on the information  already provided 
then we are likely to ask for further information. But it isnt part of my duty, and I am not required,  to 
corroborate every bit of information provided.
The main issue in this complaint, and what I have  concentrated on, is whether Nationwide delayed  
transfer of either or both of two ISA accounts.  If I think there was delay I then have to decide  when the 
transfer shouldve completed and what redress,  if any, is payable as a result of the delay.
 
The first ISA transfer 
Mr A opened  an ISA account  with Nationwide  on 11 April 2018. From  the account statement  I have 
seen he transferred just short of £16,000 into this account from another account on 16 April 2018 and 
a further  credit was made to the account of just short of £20,000 on 29 June 2018.  The transfer of the 
first ISA account into this account was completed on 5 September 2018.
Mr A has said that the start of the transfer   which he says shouldve  been just after the start of the 
new financial  year - was delayed until he could check the information given to him by branch staff.  
Nationwide has accepted that it is more likely  than not he was given  the wrong  information  by branch  
staff and offered  £50 for this.
Mr A has said that it took him until the end of April 2018 to find out he had been given the wrong 
information. He said that the transfer was initiated  by him in late April or early  May 2018. This would  
tie in with when  he says he found out the information he was given was wrong.  But I have seen no 
evidence to support what Mr A has said about making an application at that time.
The only transfer  application Nationwide has on record is one dated 15 August 2018.  And I have seen 
no evidence there was an earlier  application by Mr A. I accept it is possible that an earlier application  
was made and Nationwide mislaid this. But if this is what  had happened I think it is more  likely than 
not Mr A wouldve chased this up between April/May 2018 and the transfer application  made in 
August 2018  but I have  seen no evidence he did this.
Ref: DRN69733558Im also mindful  that Mr A insisted more than once that he didnt have a stocks and shares  ISA with 
the original  ISA provider and had transferred a cash ISA. From what  I have seen this related  to a 
separate account that isnt the subject of this complaint  and has nothing  to do with Nationwide.  So his 
recollection of what he did at the time isnt entirely  accurate. In the circumstances, based on the 
evidence I have seen  Im not satisfied Mr A did try and transfer his stocks and shares  ISA before  
August 2018.
Nationwide has said the cheque from the original  ISA provider was received on 31 August  2018 and 
credited to Mr As account  on 4 September 2018. Mr A has said it was in his account  on 5 September  
2018 but I dont think it makes any significant difference if it was a day later than Nationwide has said.  
The time taken to complete the transfer from when the transfer application  was received on 16 August 
2018 was 13 or 14 working days, which isnt an unreasonable time.
I note that Mr A refers to interest only being payable on the transfer amount once his passbook  has 
been updated.  But Nationwides  terms and conditions state that it will back  date interest payable to 
the date it received the transfer application unless there is a notice  period for transfer or some  other 
restriction on transferring the money  although where transfer is of a stocks and shares  the terms 
and terms  and conditions state  that if the money isnt received within 30 days  Nationwide  will stop 
paying interest until it is received.
In this case the money was from a stocks  and shares ISA but received  well within  30 days of the 
transfer application being made. So interest should be backdated to the date the transfer was 
received. Nationwide  said this was 16 August 2018 and that this is when  interest has been backdated 
to. I have seen no evidence that interest is only payable when Mr As passbook  has been updated 
and I dont know  on what basis he has suggested this is what Nationwide  has done.  
In the circumstances Im not satisfied Nationwide  did anything wrong with regard to the transfer of the 
first stocks  and shares ISA. And the amount  it offered  of £50 to Mr A for giving the wrong  information  
by counter staff in April 2018 I think  is reasonable.
The second  ISA transfer
Mr A signed the transfer application on 7 September 2018. From  the information Nationwide has 
provided this was received on 10 September 2018. It isnt in dispute that Nationwide sent the transfer 
application to the wrong provider  and Nationwide  accepts the delay  caused as a result of this. 
From the contact notes Nationwide  has provided  it chased the provider  for a response to the transfer 
on 24 September 2018  and at this point  became  aware  it had sent the transfer to the wrong  provider. 
There is a reference the same day to sending  a copy of the transfer to the original ISA provider. So 
Nationwide is responsible for a delay  of around 10 working days because it contacted  the wrong 
provider initially.
Mr A has said that he received a letter from original ISA provider  at the beginning of October  2018  
that said he needed to supply his passport  details for the transfer to an overseas  bank rather than to 
Nationwide. He says he contacted the original  ISA provider to clarify the money  was to go to 
Nationwide, not overseas, and that he thinks he told it that Nationwide could provide a copy  of his 
passport as he believed it had taken this in April 2018 when he opened his ISA account with 
Nationwide.
The system notes I have  seen  show that Nationwide  chased the original ISA provider on 9 October  
2018 and records that the person who contacted the provider was told:
.they are in the middle of processing this and told me it can take 20 working days.
I have seen no evidence that Nationwide was told that the original  ISA provider needed any more 
information from it until 29 October 2018 - when  there is a system  note that refers  to Mr A having 
Ref: DRN69733559called to say that the original  ISA provider needed  to verify his signature and also needed 
Nationwides ST account details. 
As a result  of this Nationwide sent a letter to the original  ISA provider  with its ST account details. It 
didnt provide  signature  verification evidence because it didnt have this, so Mr A ended  up providing 
this.
From what I have seen the letter Nationwide  sent on 29 October 2018 with its ST account  details 
shouldve been sent by it when it first contacted the original ISA provider  in September  2018. Instead 
it sent a different letter because it wrote to the wrong provider. If Nationwide had identified  the right 
provider in the first place  it wouldve provided  the right letter and wouldnt have needed  to provide 
anything further in October  2018.
 
But even if it had not got this wrong  there would still have  been delay with the transfer because the 
original provider needed  to verify Mr As signature. He knew it needed  to do this at the beginning of 
October 2018 because he was told this by the original ISA provider. He chose not to provide  this to 
the provider at the time because he believed  Nationwide  had taken  a copy of his passport when  he 
opened his ISA account  in April 2018 and he thought it would provide this. This is because he 
provided it with his passport  and took this away when  he went in to his branch and he assumed  it had 
taken a copy.
I understand why Mr A thought  a copy of his passport  had been taken  but Nationwide  didnt take a 
copy and he hasnt suggested he was told that it had. I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to 
hood Nationwide responsible for Mr As misunderstanding  in the circumstances. And even if it had 
taken a copy  of Mr As passport this wouldnt  have been to provide  this to the original ISA provider but 
for its own records.
Mr A says he thinks he told the original ISA provider that Nationwide had a copy of his passport at the 
beginning of October 2018  when it made him aware it needed  this. But I have seen no evidence the 
original ISA provider asked Nationwide  to provide this at any time.  From the information I have seen 
the first time Nationwide was made aware  this was something the original ISA provider needed  was 
on 29 October 2018. So even if it had taken a copy of Mr As passport it wouldve  had no reason  to 
provide this to the original  ISA provider  before that date.
 
Given this I dont think Nationwide is responsible  for any delay caused by the original ISA provider 
needing to verify Mr As signature. So even if Nationwide had sent the transfer to the original ISA 
provider with its ST account details when  it shouldve done - in September  2018 - the original ISA 
provider would still not have  completed the transfer until Mr A provided  a copy  of his passport, which 
he only did on 29 October 2018.
The original ISA provider contacted Nationwide on 5 November 2018 asking  again for the ST account  
details and Nationwide  sent a further  copy. Its not clear whether this is because  the copy  that 
Nationwides system notes  indicate was sent on 29 October  2018 hadnt reached the original ISA 
provider or wasnt actually  sent. The valuation date for the ISA account  by the original ISA provider is 
22 November 2018 and Nationwide received the money onto to its ST account the following day. 
For some reason Nationwide then did nothing with the money until Mr A chased it to find out what  was 
happening on 2 January  2019. This led to the money being moved  in to its error suspense  account  on 
8 January 2019 before  finally being credited to Mr As account on 9 January  2019.  Nationwide have 
been unable to explain why the money wasnt credited  to Mr As account in November 2018 when it 
was first received.
Mr A should not have  had to chase  for his money after it had been received by Nationwide  and given 
the time already taken it must have been frustrating to find in January 2019 the money  was still not in 
his account.  But given Nationwide says his interest will be backdated  to the 7 September  2018 he 
hasnt suffered any loss as a result  of this failure.
Ref: DRN697335510I am surprised  that Nationwide  didnt  offer anything to Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused 
firstly by sending  the transfer to the wrong provider and secondly the delay in crediting  his account 
with the money  it received  on his behalf in November  2018.  It has offered no explanation as to why 
this was delayed and to hold on to his money for around seven  weeks was a significant  period of time. 
And it took Mr A chasing Nationwide for it to transfer the money into his account.  I think it should  pay 
Mr A £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by this.
I have considered whether  Mr A has suffered  any actual financial loss due to the delay in transfer of 
his ISA. As I have  said,  Nationwide  has backdated  interest so there has been no loss of interest on 
the money transferred  despite  the initial delay in transfer and crediting of his account.  
If Nationwide hadnt sent the transfer to the wrong provider initially  the original ISA provider wouldve  
completed the sale of his holdings  earlier.  Given the overall period of time involved in the transfer its 
difficult to say exactly when the transfer wouldve otherwise completed if Nationwide  hadnt sent the 
transfer to the wrong provider at the start. 
But given I have found Nationwide  is responsible  for a period of delay of around 10 working  days I 
think it is reasonable  to find the transfer wouldve  completed 10 working days earlier,  so around the 8 
November 2018. Nationwide should calculate what Mr A wouldve  received if the transfer completed 
on 8 November  2018.  His funds wouldve  been  sold down by the original ISA provider  before this 
date. To give some certainty I think it is reasonable to use the 5 November  2018 and this is the date 
Nationwide should use to determine the value Mr A wouldve received  if there had been no delay. If 
this is higher than what he actually  received  it should pay the difference along with the interest he 
wouldve earned  on that amount if it had been  paid into his ISA to the date of settlement.  
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and Nationwide Building Society has to pay 
the redress  I have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973355