K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Moorcroft Debt Recovery Limited contacted  him regarding a debt which 
doesnt belong  to him.
background
In May 2018  Mr N received a letter from a bank  advising him that his debt had been passed 
to Moorcroft.
Mr N says hes never held an account with the bank and doesnt owe a debt. He says he 
queried this with the bank and was advised that he wasnt on its customer database. 
Mr N says despite this, Moorcroft continued to chase him for the debt. He says hes asked 
Moorcroft for evidence  that he owes the debt but it hasnt provided any.
Moorcroft says its the bank which is seeking  recovery of the debt and it is simply assisting. It 
says it received the information about  Mr N in good faith and had no reason to believe it was 
incorrect.
Mr N wants Moorcroft  to stop pursuing him for the debt. He complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the information held by Moorcroft was 
inconsistent with the information provided to this service and concluded that the debt didnt 
belong to Mr N. The investigator felt that Mr N should be paid compensation.
Moorcroft said that Mr Ns account  and unpaid balance would remain  on its system  at the 
banks request, but that recovery instructions would be put on hold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the letters sent by Moorcroft to Mr N. The first letter  is chasing him for the debt 
and the next two letters say that Moorcroft wont contact him whilst his query is being 
investigated. Despite  this Mr N says he received three telephone calls from Moorcroft about 
the debt during this time. Moorcroft hasnt  disputed this.
In looking at a complaint  of this type,  Id expect Moorcroft  to be able to show  that it has taken 
steps to check that it is asking the correct person for payment. I cant  see that Moorcroft  has 
provided any evidence  to show that it carried out checks. It has said that it received  the 
account in good faith from the bank.  I dont think this is sufficient to discharge the obligation 
to check that it is asking the correct person for the payment.
As soon  as Mr N queried the debt Moorcroft shouldve contacted the bank to check  that the 
debt was owed  and put the account on hold until it received confirmation that Mr N owed the 
debt.
Although I can see that Moorcroft asked Mr N for some information, I havent seen anything  
to suggest that it contacted the bank. The bank advised Mr N to provide information  directly 
to Moorcroft so it could  check  the information  it held. Mr N provided information  to Moorcroft 
Ref: DRN68914692but it couldnt check it against the information it held because it only held very limited 
information. This shows a breakdown in the line of communication  between  Moorcroft and 
the bank and I think Moorcroft couldve handled  this better.
Ive looked at all the information held by Moorcroft and Ive compared  it to the information 
provided to this service  by Mr N. On balance, there  are so many  inconsistencies that I dont 
think the debt is Mr Ns. If Moorcroft  had carried out sufficient checks  I think  it would have 
reached the same conclusion. 
As a result of being pursued  for a debt which isnt his Mr N has had to spend time trying  to 
resolve the issue. Hes done  his best to provide information to Moorcroft and has been 
cooperative. I think Moorcroft should pay compensation  to Mr N and take steps to remove 
Mr Ns account and details from its systems.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Moorcroft Debt  Recovery Limited must:
Pay compensation of £150 if it hasnt done  so already
Remove Mr Ns account and details from its systems
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6891469