K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the service and delay theyve experienced from Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva)  following their request  to surrender their whole  of life policy. 
background
In my provisional decision of 29 October 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to partially uphold the complaint. 
In short,  I said:
I think Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the poor service it 
provided them, notwithstanding the matters  that were outside  of its control.  
Theres some confusion  as to whether the document was sent to Aviva and whether 
it was received. On balance, I think its more likely than not the documentation was 
sent, but for whatever  reason wasnt received by Aviva,  even though documents sent 
by the third party were  received  by Mr and Mrs C  they having personally  contacted  
the third party  business in an effort to keep things  moving.  
Its possible that there was an issue with the postal service, or even Avivas  internal 
postal system but Ive seen no evidence that there was. In any case,  Im unable  to 
say that Aviva received the documentation  and then deliberately  failed to action Mr 
and Mrs Cs request.  
But notwithstanding the above points  and matters that were evidently out of Aviva  
and Mr and Mrs Cs control,  I think Aviva shouldve been better and clearer in its 
communication with Mr and Mrs C, along with managing their expectations  better 
over this period.   
And given the length of delay, I think Aviva  couldve  done more to explain the 
surrender value and why it was different to the value they were  given in April 2018. It 
was evident from the ongoing correspondence  that Mr and Mrs C had (and still do 
have) several unanswered questions relating to the drop-in value of their policy.   
Mr and Mrs C also responded  and said that whilst they stand by their original arguments, 
they are willing  to accept  my provisional decision as a suitable compromise and will not be 
submitting any further evidence.
Aviva also responded  and disagreed  with my provisional decision to pay £200 compensation 
for trouble and upset caused.  In summary, it said:
Notwithstanding the recommendation to pay £200 compensation for trouble and 
upset caused,  the ombudsman  cant safely say that Aviva was responsible for any of 
the losses that mightve been suffered.
It doesnt think it can manage expectations  which it has no control over.
It couldnt proceed with payment until all identification and letter of no further  interest 
was received, which is its standard procedure. 
It reminds us that our organisation doesnt have the power to get a business to 
change its process.  
The ombudsmans decision would be requiring it to do just that and that would be 
unfair.  
my findings
Ref: DRN67778722Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considering the responses from the parties,  my conclusion  regarding 
the partial-uphold, remains as set out previously,  and for the same reasons. 
Despite what Aviva says, I dont consider that any new points have been raised, other  than 
those key points  already  made and considered by me in my provisional decision.  Ive 
considered all the points that I consider relevant  to my decision.  
Perhaps Aviva has mis-understood the pertinent points of my decision, or it has taken out of 
context what I have  said. I know Aviva  has no control over matters that it has no control  
over, and that it couldnt proceed  with payment until all identification and letter of no further 
interest was received, which  I accept is standard procedure. This is not why I upheld the 
complaint. 
But I still stand by what I said in my provisional decision that Aviva shouldve  been better and 
clearer in its communication with Mr and Mrs C, along with managing their expectations 
better over this period bearing  in mind the delay they experienced after instructing Aviva  to 
surrender their whole  of life policy. 
And given  the length of delay, I think Aviva  couldve done more to explain the surrender  
value and why it was different to the value they were  given in April 2018. It was evident from 
the ongoing correspondence that Mr and Mrs C had (and still do have) several  unanswered 
questions relating to the drop-in value of their policy.  
Im aware that its not for us to tell a business how to run its business. And that was certainly 
not my intention as is clear from my provision decision. For the avoidance of doubt,  I havent 
said Aviva  should  change its process.  
I do still feel that Aviva should  pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset theyve suffered  exactly  for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision. 
This is not compensation for any losses they may have suffered.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I partially  uphold  the 
complaint. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should  pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67778723COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service and delay theyve experienced from Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva) following  their request to surrender their whole of life policy. 
background
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  In summary, 
she said:
She didnt  think Aviva  had done  anything  wrong. 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy was assigned  to the mortgage lender, and Aviva couldnt  have 
processed the request  to surrender their policy  without all the correct information. 
Aviva was dependent on a third party business  to provide a letter  of no further interest, 
confirming that the policy  was no longer assigned  to the lender.   
Its not usually Avivs policy  to contact/chase a third party  business, but in this instance it 
contacted the third party  business in January 2019 to get the information. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, they said:
They  feel like they are the only ones who have lost out financially  as the value of their policy 
has continued to diminish from when they first requested the surrender  and no one appears 
to be responsible for the delay. 
This situation of trying to get the matters resolved was out of their control. 
Whilst Aviva may not have done anything wrong theres more  that it could have done.  
The termination of the policy was more difficult than the acquisition of it, but shouldnt have 
been.
Theyve contacted the third party business twice  and they say the details have been sent to 
Aviva. 
They  are just the customers here, stuck helpless between two big businesses.    
I note that Mr and Mrs C have in due course provided copies of the letters of no interest which our 
adjudicator forwarded to Aviva. 
But Aviva  was unable to process  the request  until it had all the identification documents  for Mrs C. I 
note Mrs C provided these documents  in response to Avivas email  and maintained that shed  done 
so previously. In any event  she had to resubmit them  because they couldnt  be accepted via email.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
I note that Mr and Mrs C have now been paid £410.09 into their joint account. They  remain unhappy 
as this was done without any explanation or letter or apology. They  remain concerned that in April 
they were given a value of £852.16 for their policy, with most  of the value having  disappeared.  They  
dont feel like this is the end of the matter.  
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to partially  uphold this 
complaint.  
Ref: DRN67778724I think  Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation  for the poor service it provided them, 
notwithstanding the matters that were outside of its control.   
I note that Mr and Mrs Cs policy was at the outset assigned to a third party mortgage lender but I also 
note they say the policy  hasnt been assigned  for over 20 years. Clearly theres  been a breakdown  in 
communication somewhere thats not to do with Aviva.   
But in the circumstances as a result of this charge, Aviva couldnt have processed  their request to 
surrender the policy without being satisfied that the policy was no longer assigned.  I appreciate it 
couldnt be satisfied until it had sight of all the relevant documentation and that this was principally  the 
cause of this delay. 
Aviva was dependent on a third party business  to provide  a letter of no further interest, confirming  
that the policy  was no longer assigned to the lender. As a consequence  it (and by default Mr and Mrs 
C) were  dependant on the third party  business to provide  this key information. 
Theres some confusion as to whether or not the document  was sent to Aviva and whether it was 
received. On balance, I think its more likely  than not the documentation was sent, but for whatever  
reason wasnt  received  by Aviva, even  though documents sent by the third party  were  received by Mr 
and Mrs C  they having personally  contacted  the third party  business in an effort to keep things 
moving.  
Its possible that there was an issue  with the postal service, or even Avivas internal  postal system  but 
Ive seen no evidence that there was. In any case, Im unable to say that Aviva received  the 
documentation and then deliberately failed to action Mr and Mrs Cs request.  
In relation to the delay  I think  its important to remember  that if Aviva paid out the policy  to the wrong 
person, it may (or may not) still have to pay the correct person depending  on the checks and balances 
it carried out. Thats  why its so important  for both Aviva and the correct  recipients such  as Mr and 
Mrs C  that Aviva  does things correctly, even if it takes time because its dependent on third parties 
providing the information. 
Because Aviva could only action the request once it had received all the correct documentation. This 
might explain why it was likely to take the value of the policy at that point rather  than when the request 
was made.  
But notwithstanding all of the above points, and matters that were  evidently  out of Aviva and Mr and 
Mrs Cs control,  I think  Aviva shouldve been  better  and clearer in its communication with Mr and Mrs 
C, along  with managing their expectations better over this period.   
And given  the length of delay, I think Aviva couldve done more to explain the surrender value and 
why it was different  to the value they were given in April 2018.  It was evident from the ongoing  
correspondence that Mr and Mrs C had (and still do have) a number of unanswered  questions  relating 
to the drop in value of their policy.    
In the circumstances I think Aviva should  pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs C may feel like they are the real losers in this matter and that no one is 
accountable. I should clarify that Im only considering  the complaint against  Aviva and I cant safely 
say that its responsible for any losses that they might have  suffered as a result of the delays. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to partially 
uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN67778725Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  should pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for the trouble  and 
upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept  or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6777872