K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, also known 
as C&G) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr M took out PPI in 2001 at a meeting with the bank.  He took out a monthly  premium  
policy to cover his mortgage  repayments. The policy wouldve covered his mortgage 
repayments in full, plus a bit more,  for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. He said, in summary, he was pressurised into buying  the PPI and didnt  want  it. 
He said he knew how hard banks pushed PPI because he used to work for one.
Mr Ms complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed with Mr M in the bank. Ive seen the paperwork Mr M 
signed to take out this PPI policy.  A separate PPI application was completed  to apply for 
PPI. Mr M signed the form to say he wanted the cover.  So, I think from this he wouldve 
known PPI was optional. 
Mr M said he felt pressurised into taking the PPI. This is a very subjective area and 
based on what Ive seen I dont have enough to persuade me that Mr M was pressured 
to buy PPI by the bank.  I think  it just as likely that he was persuaded of the benefits,  
given that the policy  appeared suitable for his needs. 
Lloyds accepts it recommended  the policy to Mr M. So, as well as giving Mr M 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading  about the policy,  it also had to consider  
whether the policy  was suitable for his needs.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the actual terms and conditions of the policy that applied 
when this policy was sold. Ive looked  at a policy from after the time of sale,  and I think  it 
likely that the terms and conditions wouldve been similar when Mr M took out his policy.  
The PPI didnt appear unsuitable  for Mr M looking at his circumstances at the time. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr M appeared  eligible for the policy and it seemed  affordable.
He said he wouldve got sick pay through work,  six months at full pay and six 
months at half pay. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ms sick pay, and for up 
Ref: DRN60987032to 12 months  per successful claim.  Given that his home was at risk, I think  PPI 
couldve provided him with a useful benefit.  Repeat  claims  were possible under the 
policy, so it gave Mr M long-term protection.
Mr M said that his parents wouldve helped with his repayments.  I accept they may 
have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance  on this.
Mr M said he couldve sold his car to help pay his repayments for a few months. 
However, it may not have been that quick or easy to sell his car and this 
potentially may have made it more difficult for him to secure a new job if he was 
unemployed.
I cant see that Mr M was affected by any of the main things that wouldve made  it 
more difficult for him to make a successful  claim.  So, I dont  think  having better 
information about these things wouldve changed his mind about taking out the 
policy.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  I 
think C&G couldve  given Mr M clearer information  about the costs  of the policy,  for 
example. But given  the monthly cost of the policy per month, and that the PPI covered  
his mortgage repayments in full, I dont think this wouldve put him off taking PPI out.  
Also, Mr M couldve cancelled the monthly premium  at any time if he wanted to. 
On balance, I think, Mr M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better 
advised and informed as it gave him useful protection in his circumstances  and was 
suitable for him. I dont think better advice or information wouldve  stopped  him buying  
PPI.
So, I cant see that Mr M has lost out because of anything that the bank mightve done 
wrong. I have taken into account everything  that Mr Ms said,  but this doesnt  change  
my view.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6098703