K820x#14complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited  (Everyday Lending) took a further loan 
payment from his account when hed already repaid the loan in full. 
background
Mr E had a loan with Everyday Lending. The final loan payment debited his account on           
26 November 2018. 
The next day, Mr E noticed that a further payment had been taken out of his account.  He 
contacted Everyday Lending  and asked for the money to be credited back  to his account the 
same day. Initially Everyday Lending  said the funds wouldnt clear  until the next day, but it 
subsequently arranged for the money to be returned  to Mr Es account  the same  day. It tried 
to call Mr E to let him know it had done so but was unable to reach him. 
Mr E has said because  a further  payment was taken  from his account, he didnt have 
enough money in his account to enable him to send  money to a relative who needed medical 
treatment. Mr E says his relative passed  away as a result. And he thinks Everyday Lending 
deliberately took the further payment in order to earn more money. 
In its final response,  Everyday Lending said an additional loan payment was taken as a 
result of an administrative error.  It confirmed itd credited the money back  to Mr Es account 
on the same  day. And it apologised for the inconvenience this might have caused Mr E. It 
explained that itd made  another credit to Mr E on 29 November  2018  for the amount interest  
he saved by making his loan repayments ahead of the due date. 
Mr E remained unhappy  and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  
into things and thought Everyday Lending  had acted fairly  in the circumstances. She said the 
funds had been returned to Mr Es account  in the morning - not long after hed contacted  
Everyday Lending.  And she could see that Everyday Lending had tried to contact Mr E in the 
morning to let him know the money had been returned to his account. So she was satisfied 
Everyday Lending  had acted promptly in putting  things right.
She noted that Mr E hadnt told Everyday  Lending that he needed the money  in order to 
send it to a relative  for their medical  treatment. And so she didnt think it needed to do 
anything else. 
Mr E disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr E has said Everyday  Lending deliberately took the additional  payment from his account in 
order to benefit  from it financially. And he feels Everyday Lending only refunded the money 
because Mr E spotted their mistake.
Ref: DRN66648882Everyday Lending  has explained the extra  payment was taken due to an administrative error  
and Ive no reason  to doubt that. Ive not seen  any evidence to support  the argument  that it 
was taken deliberately,  so I dont agree with Mr E on this point.
Everyday Lending  also confirmed that it wouldve identified the payment had been taken in 
error had Mr E not been  in touch  first as it has checks  in place to pick up such  things. It 
explained its reporting system wouldve  identified  the issue  24 hours after the payment  was 
made but as Mr E noticed  the problem before then, it hadnt  had a chance to correct it. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that had Mr E not identified the problem first, Everyday Lending  
wouldve picked up on it. So I dont agree that it wouldve kept Mr Es money  like hes 
suggested it would have.  
Unfortunately, mistakes do happen but what I need  to consider is how quickly Everyday 
Lending put things right. Here, Everyday  Lending resolved the issue  and tried to let Mr E 
know within half an hour of it being  made aware of the problem. So Im satisfied it provided a 
very quick resolution to the matter.
I appreciate Mr E says he needed the money  in order  to send it to a relative who was unwell, 
but from what I can see the money  had been credited back  to him on the same  day, so it 
was available  to him. I was sorry to read that Mr Es relative passed away  but it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  to attribute this to Everyday Lending.
Mr E appears to have  concerns about  the additional credit that was made  to him by 
Everyday Lending  on 29 November 2018. Everyday Lending has explained this payment is 
for the amount of interest Mr E saved  by making his loan repayments ahead  of the due date. 
If Mr E has any concerns about whether this amount is correct hed need to raise this as a 
separate complaint with Everyday Lending.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6664888