K821x#15complaint 
Mrs W has complained about the advice that she received in May 2012 from 
Brighton Williams & Partners (referred  to from now on as BWP) to transfer the value of her 
occupational pension scheme  benefits  with a former employer (referred to from now on as 
employer C) to her Self-Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP). 
Mrs W has also complained about two earlier transfers to the SIPP  from employer A and 
employer B. These complaints are being  looked  at separately by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service.
background
In May 2012  Mrs W then aged 58 met BWP to discuss  her financial circumstances and what  
to do with her pension provision with employer C. Mrs W had recently left her job and had 
been hoping  to get enhanced pension benefits  because of her ill health but this had not been 
granted.
Mrs W stated that she was interested in taking benefits from her pension provision as she 
had stopped working.
Mrs W had previously transferred benefits  from the pension schemes of two former 
employers into a SIPP. The transfer  values under these two arrangements had been  
approximately £167,000 and £240,000.
Mrs W had left her employer on 31 March 2012  when she was offered a transfer  value of 
about £178,000 in lieu of the deferred  pension benefits that she had accrued.  She asked 
BWP for advice on what to do with the transfer value  that she had been offered.
The business arranged  for a transfer  value analysis to be completed that showed that the 
transfer value  in respect of the benefits accrued whilst working for employer C had to grow  at 
a rate of over 15% to just match the benefits  at age 65 that were being  provided by the OPS 
of her last employer.
I note that the transfer went ahead on 31 July 2012  when  about £178,000 was transferred to 
her existing SIPP. 
The business has argued that Mrs W wanted to raise the maximum tax-free cash sum from 
her pension arrangements  in order to reduce her level of debts and to reduce her mortgage.  
The business has also argued that the transfer  to a drawdown arrangement was essential  as 
Mrs W continued to spend more than it thought was appropriate. 
In February 2015  BWP were replaced as Mrs Ws advisers.
In August  2016  following  the reduction  in the value  of her SIPP Mrs W complained via her 
representatives to BWP about the advice that she had received to transfer  the benefits from 
her former employers pension schemes  into the new SIPP.
Mrs W representatives have argued that she would have been much  better  off now if the 
transfers had not taken  place. The representatives  have argued  that the advice given to       
Mrs W was inappropriate and breached the duties  that it had with Mrs W to:
Ref: DRN63437142Ensure that the investments recommended were suitable  for Mrs W given her 
objectives and the facts  disclosed.
Ensure that she understood the nature of the risks involved with the recommended   
investments, and
Take reasonable steps  to ensure that communications with Mrs W were  clear fair and 
not misleading.
On 21 April 2017 BWP rejected the complaint from Mrs W and argued  that:
Mrs W was told that taking  high levels of income from the SIPP would  reduce the 
level of income available in the future.
The initial report stated that Mrs W did not need income in the short  term but she 
started taking income from the SIPP almost immediately. Mrs W has taken  several 
large one off payments from this arrangement. She has taken around £400,000 from 
the SIPP over 5 years. As a result the value of the SIPP has fallen from £585,000 to 
around £223,000.
Mrs W has received  significantly more from the SIPP than she would have received 
from the OPS.
The portfolio  selected was meeting the required growth rates.  
It was Mrs Ws difficult financial position  that has caused the problems and the advice 
from BWP was appropriate in the circumstances.
It was only Mrs Ws high level of withdrawals from the SIPP  that has caused  the 
problems that have arisen.
It noted that the high level of withdrawals continued after it was replaced as Mrs Ws 
financial adviser.
Even if it had told Mrs W not to transfer she would  have  gone  ahead anyway 
irrespective of the advice from BWP.
Any loss that was determined would need  to take into account the high level of 
withdrawals and should allow for significant contributory negligence.
As agreement was not reached the complaint  was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where it was looked at by an adjudicator. 
The adjudicator noted that Mrs W had sold her investment property in December 2016  when 
the sale price of £295,000 was more than sufficient to pay off her secured loans.
Mrs Ws husband used an inheritance of £70,000 to pay for the boat that they had bought.
The adjudicator considered that the complaint  should be upheld  and set out a method of 
determining redress.
As the business  did not agree the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point to note is that the regulator had issued guidance in its handbook (19.1.6) that 
states:
Ref: DRN63437143When advising  a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests
I have then considered  whether the transfer could be considered to be in Mrs Ws best 
interest.
On 17 July 2012 Mrs W was recorded  as having a low medium attitude to risk. This would 
imply that Mrs W was unwilling to accept any significant degree  of risk with her pension 
benefits..
I also note that before  the transfer  took place the pension provider carried  out a calculation 
to determine the critical yield. This is the rate of investment return  that would have to be 
achieved after the transfer to ensure that the personal pension policy had the same value at 
retirement as the benefits that would  have been provided by the OPS.  In this case the 
calculation carried out indicated that the critical yield to match the benefits that had been 
given up was over 15.0%.
It is important  to realise that at that time pension providers were  required by the regulator to 
issue illustrations on assumed future growth  rates of 5%, 7% and 9%. The required rate of 
return of 15.0% just to match  the benefits had been  given up would have been considered  
very high.  
I do not consider  that the level of debts that Mrs W had was so high that she would have 
ignored professional  advice not to transfer  if she had received it.. If Mrs W had been told not 
to transfer and she had ignored  that advice  then this should  have been clearly documented 
and the sale recorded as an insistent  client sale. I have seen no such  evidence of this on the 
file.
In a letter dated 1 June  2011 the business noted  that Mrs Ws attitude  to risk had come out 
as 1 after completing a risk assessment  questionnaire (this was the lowest  rating).  Despite 
this outcome, the business stated as the investments  in the SIPP  would be held for a long 
term it felt that a slightly higher degree  of risk was appropriate over the medium term.       
Mrs Ws funds  were then invested in a range of cautious funds that, in my opinion, would not 
be expected to produce the high returns required to ensure  that she was better off on 
retirement after transferring out of the OPS. 
For the reasons  given  above, the advice to transfer  was unsuitable. The recommendation 
appears to have involved a degree of risk that Mrs W was not suited to. Her attitude to risk 
was low medium, but the recommendation involved giving up benefits that the new 
investment would need to grow by 15% per year just to match.  Mrs W should have been  
advised to leave her deferred pension benefits where they were  and not to transfer.  I dont 
think her debts were so high that she would have ignored advice  not to transfer.  Had she 
been given that advice,  I think  its more  likely  she would have followed it, since  she did not 
have a pressing  need for the tax-free  cash. I therefore conclude  that this complaint should 
be upheld.
Whilst Mrs W may have  withdrawn much more from the drawdown plan that she would have 
received from the OPS  this will be allowed for when determining the level of redress.
Ref: DRN63437144my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  against Brighton Williams & Partners, and that a 
fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs W, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Brighton Williams & Partners must  undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision and should use the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ws acceptance of the decision. 
It will be necessary  when  carrying out the required redress calculation to allow  appropriately 
for the fact there have  been several transfers  into the SIPP.
Brighton Williams & Partners may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs Ws contribution history  to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award : 
I require Brighton  Williams & Partners  to pay Mrs W compensation as set out above, up to a 
maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to      
Mrs W within 90 days of the date Brighton Williams & Partners receives  notification  of her 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Brighton Williams & Partners to pay Mrs W 
this compensation.
Ref: DRN63437145Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.   
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Brighton Williams & Partners  pays Mrs W the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes Brighton  Williams & Partners to pay Mrs W from the date it receives  
notification of her acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs W accepts my determination,  the money award is binding on Brighton Williams & 
Partners My recommendation is not binding on Brighton Williams & Partners. 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs W can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to her after the money award has been  paid.  Mrs W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343714