K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. acted  unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing  with their claim under a 
travel insurance policy. They want the claim paid in full.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a travel insurance  policy with Mapfre, taken out through  a phone call; 
they declared that Mrs W suffered from kidney failure. They  went on a cruise and Mrs W had 
pre-booked dialysis treatment while aboard. The ships medical personnel required her to 
disembark and attend hospital  due to an issue with her heart. Mr and Mrs W made  a claim 
under the policy  but werent entirely  successful; Mapfre refused to pay for the dialysis  
sessions booked and not received (other minor claims  were also unsuccessful,  but arent 
part of this complaint).
Mr W complained  to Mapfre. It said the dialysis was pre-planned and expected (as Mrs W 
had to have it three  times a week).  Mapfre said the policy only covered emergency treatment 
and noted that the policy  said any medical  treatment  or tests you know  you will need  during 
your journey was excluded.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. Mr and Mrs Ws point was that Mapfre  knew  Mrs W had to 
have the treatment but didnt make it clear enough  that it wouldnt be covered if pre-booked. 
The investigators view was that while the terms and conditions  of the policy  excluded  
treatment which policyholders knew would be required during the journey, the circumstances 
in this case meant it wasnt fair or reasonable to strictly apply the legal wording  of the policy.  
Mapfre knew of Mrs Ws condition and that she had to have dialysis  three times a week or 
she would  die; it also was told that she would receive dialysis on-board the cruise ship. 
The investigator listened to the sales call and noted that Mr W was completely open  about 
the position and that Mr and Mrs W wanted  to be fully covered  she said that Mr W wasnt  
told that the pre-booked dialysis  wouldnt be covered if he bought the policy.  The investigator 
felt Mr and Mrs W were given the expectation that the pre-booked dialysis  would be covered 
as a result, and said Mapfre should  pay the outstanding pre-booked dialysis  costs.
Mr and Mrs W agreed with the investigator, but said they wanted all the other  unpaid  minor 
items paid as well. The investigator pointed out these didnt form part of the complaint 
brought to this service. Mapfre disagreed with the investigator and said that it felt its points 
hadnt been fully considered. It said the policy  only covered unforeseen events and excluded 
the dialysis treatment  (it also mentioned a patient  could  choose to delay treatment). The 
investigator pointed  out that Mr and Mrs W told Mapfre about the situation and they werent  
told about the exclusion when discussing the available  options; she felt this failure was unfair 
and unreasonable. Mapfre was adamant  it wouldnt  pay for the unused  dialysis  treatment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Mapfre, I am also referring 
to its agents. I will focus  on the core of the complaint brought  to this service, which is the 
outstanding dialysis  treatment claim.  The other issues  are being considered separately.
Ref: DRN68725332The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions exclude  from the policy medical treatment which the 
policyholder knows  will be needed during  their trip. Its fair and reasonable generally to 
expect consumers to read the terms and conditions and note any exclusions. I agree that 
legally Mapfre is correct  that the unused  dialysis is excluded,  though  I cant agree that it 
couldve been delayed;  Mrs W would die if she didnt receive it three times a week.
I also would  point out that while Mapfre is right that insurance covers unexpected  events,  the 
unexpected event being covered in this case is the cancellation or curtailment of the holiday,  
which is precisely what happened to Mr and Mrs W. They didnt expect to have to curtail 
their trip.
But this service must consider the law, but also do what is fair and reasonable. Its striking 
that when Mr W called to arrange the insurance,  he was completely open  about the position. 
He explained  the length of the holiday (which  meant  Mrs W had to have dialysis  during the 
trip), he talked about how the treatment would  be undertaken on the cruise  ship,  and 
critically he was clear  that he wanted  the highest  level of cover to be as protected  as 
possible. While the agent speaking to him said advice couldnt be given,  detailed  information 
was given to enable Mr and Mrs W to make a choice.
After having the types of policy explained to him, and declaring their medical conditions, 
Mr W chose the highest  level of cover and purchased additional cover to be on the safe side. 
At no point  was Mr W told, despite all the information he gave, that the dialysis treatment 
would be excluded as a recoverable cost under the policy. In all the circumstances of this 
case, I think Mr W was given  the impression that it would be covered and it wouldve  been 
fair and reasonable for Mapfre to specifically draw to his attention the exclusion.  It didnt. The 
policy itself didnt highlight  this significant exclusion. This wasnt fair or reasonable in my 
view in these specific circumstances, and denied Mr and Mrs W an opportunity to find a 
suitable policy that met their needs  or at least realise the risk they were  facing. I think its fair 
and reasonable for Mapfre to pay the remaining dialysis  costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Mapfre  Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. should pay Mr and Mrs W the 
outstanding pre-booked dialysis costs. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject  my decision before 5 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6872533