K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) gave him a loan 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint has been brought to us by Mr Es mother on his behalf. But, for ease, I shall 
refer simply to Mr E in this decision.
The complaint relates  to a single instalment loan of £750 given  in December 2015 to Mr E by 
Savvy. It was repayable over 18 months at £69 per month. Mr E wasnt able to meet  the first 
monthly repayment when  it fell due - but the loan was ultimately  repaid, in full, by Mr Es 
family in July 2017.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Savvy had been  wrong to give the loan. She thought  Savvys 
affordability checks had gone far enough and that these showed  that Mr E had sufficient 
disposable income to repay his loan.
Mr E didnt agree. In response to our adjudicators opinion Mr E observed that Savvys 
checks showed:
-he was unable to afford the loan,
-there was one unsatisfied County Court  Judgement reported,
-there had been several credit defaults over the preceding 36 months.
He believes that this shows he was struggling with existing debts and was unable to repay 
Savvys loan in a sustainable manner.
Because both parties dont agree the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr E could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN65467902the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish whether 
Mr E could sustainably repay  his loan  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Before it lent to Mr E, Savvy asked him for details  of his monthly income  and expenditure, 
obtained copy payslips  and carried out a credit check.
Mr E stated  that his monthly income was £1,700. He subsequently submitted two payslips to 
Savvy which  showed his net income to be, respectively,  £1,588 and £1,848. Savvy has 
confirmed that it adopted  the lower figure in its affordability assessment.
It also then had a telephone conversation with Mr E (Ive listened to a recording of the call) 
during which  it verified with him the purpose of the loan, the details  of his income and ran 
through an extensive list of expenditure categories to validate what Mr E had declared to it. It 
went on to discuss with Mr E the status  of his other, existing credit agreements   comprising 
a credit card and another  short term loan. Mr E confirmed that his one existing short term 
loan of £205 would be repaid from the proceeds of Savvys loan.
Ive reviewed the summary output  of Savvys  credit checks and, dont see anything  here that 
I think wouldve been likely to give it any cause for concern. It showed  neither County Court 
Judgements, nor any defaults  in the preceding 36 months.
I think its important to note that the information  a lender might see when it requests a copy 
of someones credit  file may be quite different to that which may been evident to the 
borrower himself. A lender might  only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data 
might be missing or anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date. So, this may explain 
the differences between what Savvy saw from the information it obtained from its credit 
check and Mr Es own view of his borrowings at the time.
Ref: DRN65467903This was Mr Es first and only loan with Savvy. I think that, given the early  stage  in their 
relationship, it was reasonable for Savvy to rely upon  the information  that had been provided  
to it by Mr E  both in his loan application, his income confirmation  and the subsequent 
telephone call. I think that, in all the circumstances, the checks Savvy carried out were 
proportionate and I wouldnt have expected it to do anything more.
Im sorry  to learn of Mr Es financial predicament and am sure that this must have been a 
difficult time for both him and his family.  And I realise that itll come as a disappointment to 
Mr E but Im afraid that, for the reasons  outlined  above, I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6546790