K820x#14Complaint
Ms M complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance BPF) is not taking the monthly payments due on her fixed sum loan agreement on 
the agreed date.  She says this is causing  her anxiety and financial hardship as it makes  
managing her account difficult.
Background
Ms M entered into a 12 month loan agreement with BPF. She says the first payment was 
due to be taken  from her account on 5 April 2019  and then monthly payments were to be 
taken on the fifth of each  month. However, on 6 April she called BPF because payment 
hadnt been taken. She says she was told that her payment had been processed but it would 
take three to five working days to leave  her account. She says the first payment left her 
account on 8 April.
Ms M says that her loan agreement set out that payments would be made  on the fifth of the 
month and she expected  this to be the date the payments  would leave her account. She 
says that payments leaving her account on later dates  causes  her anxiety and puts her at 
risk of not having  the funds available  for payment.
BPF says that Ms M set up a direct debit instruction allowing  it to debit the payment  amount 
from her account on the fifth of the month. It says that it has requested  the payments on the 
correct date. It says that once it has applied for the payment Ms Ms bank will then release 
the money but that this doesnt always happen on the day the money is requested. It says it 
cannot request  payment in advance  of the payment date as this could result in funds  leaving  
Ms Ms account early. It also noted that if the payment  date fell on a weekend or bank 
holiday payment  would be taken on the following working day. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that a direct debit had been  set up with 
BPF and it was receiving  the repayments  on the correct day which meant it was requesting 
the repayments correctly. Given this he didnt  think that BPF had done anything  wrong  in 
regard to Ms Ms direct debit. He said he hadnt investigated whether there  were  issues  with 
Ms Ms bank making the payments as the complaint was against BPF.
Our investigator noted Ms Ms comments about being caused  financial hardship but 
reiterated that BPF was collecting on the correct  date. He also said that he hadnt seen any 
evidence that financial hardship had been  caused by the delay between the fifth of the 
month and when the money has left Ms Ms account.
Ms M didnt accept our investigators view. She said her direct debit mandate  allowed her to 
instruct BPF to take the payment on a specific date. BPF wrote to her to confirm  the date as 
being the fifth of each month.  She said that payments should  therefore leave her account on 
the fifth of the month but this hasnt been happening. She said this was a breach of contract 
and not knowing  when the payment would leave  her account means  she hasnt been able to 
use it as she wishes. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67239092Ms M entered into a loan agreement  and set up a direct debit to make the monthly 
payments. Her agreement  sets out that the first payment will be on 5 April 2019  and 
payment will then be taken on the same  date each month. Given  this I can see why Ms M 
was expecting her payments to leave her account on 5 April and then the fifth of each month 
for the duration  of the agreement. Ms M has provided copies of the entries on her bank 
statements which show the payments leaving on dates after the fifth.
While I understand why Ms M has raised  this complaint and appreciate  her comments about 
managing her account I can only uphold this complaint if I am satisfied that BPF has done 
something wrong.
I have looked  through  the information provided by BPF and this shows  that the payment is 
set up for the fifth of the month, starting  on 5 April 2019. It has provided  a statement of 
account which shows payments being  credited to her account  on the 5 April,  5 May and 5 
June. In contrast Ms M has provided  copies  from her statements showing the payments 
leaving her account  on 8 April, 8 May and 6 June. The difference isnt entirely accounted  for 
due to the fifth falling on a weekend or bank holiday.
BPF has explained that, as is standard procedure with a direct  debit,  it sends its instruction 
to Ms Ms bank a few working  days before the payment is due, requesting  that payment is 
made on the due date (in this case the fifth). I note the information  Ms M received in a call 
where she was told the payment was requested on the day but I think this may have been  a 
misunderstanding on the part of the adviser. BPF has confirmed that the correct process is 
followed whereby  the payment is requested in advance of the payment date and based  on 
what I have seen I do not find I can say this isnt happening. BPF has also provided records 
which show that all payments have been received on the fifth of each month. I note the 
comments in the call about pseudo credits and that these are applied on the day to prevent 
issues such as charges. But as the account  shows the payments applied on the correct  date 
I accept that it has been requesting the payment  at the correct time and that Ms Ms account 
hasnt been adversely affected by any payment delays. 
So, while I can understand why Ms M is concerned about the payments leaving her account 
later than agreed, it seems from the perspective of BPF the payments are arriving  on time. I 
appreciate that this is not the answer Ms M was hoping for but based on the evidence I do 
not find that I can say BPF has done anything  wrong.
Ms M has said that the issue has caused  her financial hardship however I have not seen any 
evidence of this. I also note that while  the payments may not be shown as leaving her 
account on the fifth it is possible that they would be in a pending  balance.  Even  if not, given 
the payments  have  not been  recorded any date later than the eighth  of the month  I think  it 
reasonable to accept  that Ms M would be expecting the payment around this time and so 
would ensure the funds were available.
While I can see that this issue has caused  Ms M stress and anxiety, as I do not find that BPF 
has done anything  wrong I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN67239093My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6723909