K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the settlement  Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has 
offered them  after Mr L claimed on their home  insurance.
background
Mr L claimed on his home insurance  after his watch was stolen. It was a specified item listed  
on the policy schedule,  and was insured for £3,950.  This amount was based on a valuation  
Mr L got before taking  out the insurance  a few months earlier.
This is also the amount Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs L following the theft (minus  a £50 policy  
excess). But shortly before the theft (and unknown to Mr and Mrs L or Lloyds), the watch 
manufacturer increased the price of a new watch with the same specification as Mr Ls to 
£4,100. And Mr Ls watch had a special engraving, which he said cost £100. So Mr Ls claim 
was for £4,200,  as against Lloyds  offer of £3,900.
Lloyds initially said it would pay £50 towards a new engraving  on a new watch, but stood by 
its decision to offer Mr and Mrs L £3,900 in settlement of their claim for the stolen watch. It 
then changed  its mind about  the contribution to the engraving and said it shouldnt have 
offered it. But it said it would pay Mr and Mrs L £50 for giving them incorrect information 
about this first time round.
Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr and Mrs L complained to us. The investigator who looked  at 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint didnt think Lloyds had treated them  unfairly. She said she wouldnt 
ask Lloyds to do any more after it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs L £3,950 (either with vouchers 
or as a cash  settlement) for the stolen watch and without applying  a further excess. 
Mr and Mrs L disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
My starting point is Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance policy. For specified  items, it says the 
most it will pay for one item is the amount specified in the schedule. As Ive said, Mr Ls 
watch is listed as a specified item in the insurance  schedule. The sum insured is stated to be 
£3,950.
Mr and Mrs Ls insurance schedule has a heading called important  information  that says 
they should make sure the specified  items  limits  are adequate for their needs. And it also 
says they should tell Lloyds if the value of their contents changes.
Of course,  Mr and Mrs L couldnt have known  the price of a new watch  would go up just a 
few months after they got the insurance. But neither would  Lloyds.  And the policy  wording 
limiting the sum insured  to £3,950  is very clear. Also,  although I understand the engraving 
had sentimental value for Mr L, it didnt increase its monetary value  which,  in any case,  for 
Ref: DRN69197312insurance purposes was limited to £3,950  so I dont think  it would be fair to ask Lloyds to 
pay for a new engraving.  Finally, when Lloyds calculated its premium for insuring Mr Ls 
watch, it did so based  on the value he gave. Taking all these things into account, I dont think 
it would  be fair to ask Lloyds to pay the shortfall  Mr and Mrs L now face should  Mr L decide 
to buy another  watch with the same specification.
Mr and Mrs L say their insurance policy is index-linked. The policy document describes index 
linking as a monthly  adjustment to the sum insured (including specified  items) using the retail  
price index (or another appropriate standard).  But this is an adjustment  that would only take 
place if Mr and Mrs L renewed  their insurance with Lloyds. Its there to make  sure the 
amount an item is insured  for keeps pace with inflation over time  and with Lloyds premium 
for taking  on the risk of insuring it adjusted accordingly. It isnt there to compensate 
policyholders if theres a manufacturers price increase, as has happened  in Mr and Mrs Ls 
case.
I do understand this leaves Mr and Mrs L with a shortfall if Mr L decides to replace his watch  
like-for-like. But, overall,  I think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly in dealing with their 
claim. So I dont intend  to make any further award.  As Lloyds has said it would, it should pay               
Mr and Mrs L £3,950  in settlement of their claim  for the stolen watch.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6919731