K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy thats some payments he made  with his credit card were  treated as cash 
transactions by Tesco  Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) and incurred fees and 
interest charges.  He wants  them refunded.
background
Tesco said in its final response that in April 2018  itd issued a notice of variation to Mr Rs 
accounts terms and conditions. This said certain types of transactions  would  from 31 May 
2018 be classed  as cash transactions and would accrue a handling fee and interest in line 
with other  cash transactions. The transactions Mr R had made  to one recipient  fell within  the 
list of transactions  itd listed  and fees and interest have been applied to them  correctly.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Mr Rs original credit agreement allows  Tesco to change the terms and conditions of 
his account on giving  30 days notice. 
Tesco has provided a template  notice of variation that it says it sent to Mr R by email  
in April 2018 which changed the definition of cash transactions to include wire or 
international money transfers. It also said cash transactions would incur  a 3.99% 
transaction fee from 31 May 2018.
Mr R says Tesco shouldve sent this notice by post. But he was signed  up for 
paperless statements  and alerts by email.  And theres no record of the email sent to 
him being returned as undelivered. 
The recipient  of the transactions provides  an international money  transfer service.  
The payments  were cash transactions and Tesco  hasnt  done  anything wrong by 
charging transaction fees or interest  on them in line with its terms and conditions. 
She wont be asking  it to refund the fees or interest  charged.
Mr R has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I think Tesco was entitled to change the accounts  terms  and conditions  by giving 30 days  
notice. And it didnt do anything wrong by sending the notice of variation of the accounts 
terms and conditions to Mr R by email as he was registered  to receive paperless statements. 
And his April 2018 statement also outlined the changes  to the accounts terms and 
conditions.
Im satisfied on balance  that the transactions Mr R made to one recipient were  correctly 
classed as cash transactions under  the amended terms  and conditions. As such  Tesco  was 
entitled to apply a transaction fee and interest  to them.
Ref: DRN60817272Overall Tesco has acted  in line with the accounts  terms  and conditions  and I dont think  its 
done anything  wrong. 
The investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint  is fair and I dont think  I can 
reasonably ask Tesco to make  any refund  to Mr R as hed like. And I dont see any reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6081727