K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Sabre Insurance  Company Limiteds handling  of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Sabre includes their agents.
background
In July 2017, Mr L took out insurance  through an insurance broker. A brokers  role is to find a 
policy for their customer, but the broker  doesnt provide insurance cover  themselves. The 
insurer of the policy  arranged for Mr L was Sabre.
The premium with Sabre  was over £5,000. But the premium Mr L had paid for the previous 
(2016) policy  year with another  insurer was around  £1,000. Mr L said Sabres premium was 
excessive and unfair, so he complained.
Sabre didnt uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  Mr L didnt  think  that was fair so he brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Sabre had dealt 
with Mr L fairly. As Mr L didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr L has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all of those  very carefully.  
But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is to decide 
if Sabre have dealt  with Mr L in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr L believes the cost of the 2017  premium was unfair. It might help if I explain that we're  
not the industry regulator. That means  it's not my role to tell an insurer  how much they can 
charge for their policies. And our service generally takes the view that, providing  they treat 
people fairly  - that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Mr Ls 2017 premium was significantly higher than his 2016  premium, so I can understand 
why he was concerned.  But just because  his premium has higher, I don't  think  that means 
that Sabre have treated him unfairly.  Sabre provided  me with information to show how Mr Ls 
premium was calculated.  That information is commercially sensitive so I can't  share it with 
Mr L. But having looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that Sabre  treated  Mr L in the same way 
as they would other policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think  they calculated  his 
premium reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  take into consideration a large number  of risk rating  factors.  
In other  words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses  and the likelihood  of 
them making a claim  in the future  by looking at many  factors. But its not down to me to tell 
insurers what factors they should  take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
Ref: DRN62510472against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
Mr L has said that the policies he had before and after the Sabre policy  were  both 
substantially cheaper.  That may be the case,  but it doesnt mean  Sabre treated Mr L unfairly. 
As mentioned above, different insurers give different levels of importance to different factors. 
For example, one insurer might consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore 
charge a higher premium to reflect  that risk. But another  insurer might not consider that 
particular car to be high risk, so their premium  might be lower. There are sometimes  other 
factors that may cause  one policy  to be cheaper than another,  including the level of cover  
that the policies offer. And some insurers give large  discounts to attract new customers  to 
the extent that they make  a loss initially and hope to recoup that when a consumer renews. 
Another insurer that chooses not to give a discount might have premiums  that cost more 
than the one that does  offer discounts. But that wouldnt mean the insurer  charging the 
higher premium was being unfair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6251047