K822xComplaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) failed to provide information 
about his pension plans or respond  to his concerns about the information it provided.
Background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview here.  Any references to Aviva include the previous pension plan 
providers.
Mr C holds three pension  plans with Aviva. In 2014 he received a letter in relation to plan F, 
which concerned  the amount of tax-free cash (TFC) available  to him under the plan. The 
letter asked Mr C to complete a form to enable Aviva to calculate  his correct entitlement  and 
it gave him a month to respond. Mr C says he made some enquiries  with Aviva, including  
why hed been given so little time to reply, but he didnt hear back.
Mr C got in touch with Aviva again  in January 2016.  He raised  the issue  hed had with the 
correspondence sent to him in 2014 and he asked for some information about  his policies. 
He wanted to know whether he could transfer policies  F and V into policy P, and he was still 
unsure how much TFC he was entitled  to under policy F. Mr C had trouble getting a 
satisfactory answer, which lead to a series of complaints.
Mr C believed Aviva  had taken too long to respond  to his concerns, and it had provided 
conflicting information about his retirement options. He said this led to him withdrawing  cash 
from a pension plan he held with another business as Aviva had failed to provide him with a 
clear answer before  the end of the 2016 tax year.
Aviva provided responses to Mr Cs complaints in May and June 2016  it paid him total 
compensation of £400. Further complaint responses  were  provided in January and 
February 2017, where an extra  £900 was paid to him. An Aviva  director also provided a 
response in March 2017; he accepted  the service provided had fallen  short on a number of 
occasions but thought  the compensation provided  to date was fair.
Mr C remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.  He didnt think Avivas  
offer of compensation reflected the mistakes made and the time hed spent trying  to sort 
things out. He said this had prevented him from making important decisions about his 
pension. Mr C still thought  he hadnt  been  given an adequate explanation regarding  the TFC 
on plan F. Mr C raised a new concern about the final bonus he was entitled to under the 
plans  this is the subject  of a separate complaint with our service.
Our investigator told Mr C that he believed  the compensation provided was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr C didnt agree and said the investigator hadnt addressed the issue of the 
TFC. Another  investigator looked  into Mr Cs concerns about this and made further enquiries 
with Aviva and the former scheme administrator.  He was satisfied Mr C wasnt  entitled to 
enhanced TFC under policy F. But he thought  Aviva  couldve provided further clarity to Mr C 
about this sooner, particularly if it had made enquiries with the former scheme  administrator.  
For this reason, he recommended extra compensation. Aviva agreed  to pay an extra £200, 
bringing the total compensation  to £1,500.
The investigator recommended  that Mr C accept this in full and final settlement of the 
complaint. Mr C considered the offer but ultimately declined it. Overall,  he still felt Avivas 
Ref: DRN60138982total offer of compensation wasnt sufficient, considering how long the matter had been going  
on for and the numerous mistakes made.
Mr C added that the investigators  enquiries had revealed that Aviva didnt actually have a 
copy of the scheme  rules  applying to policy F. And he wasnt  persuaded that the scheme 
rules the investigator  had obtained from the former  scheme administrator were correct. So, 
he maintained  that the matter was still unresolved, for which he should be compensated 
further.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator for largely  the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
Mr C has made considerable submissions  in bringing this complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything  hes sent in, but I dont intend  to respond in similar detail. Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the main issues and the reasons for my decision. So, if I dont  mention  
a particular point  or piece  of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Instead, it is just that I dont feel the need  to reference it in order  to explain my decision.  This 
isnt intended  as a discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I first wish to say that I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling  on the matters that are the 
subject of his complaint.  The issues hes raised concern his pension,  an extremely  important 
part of his retirement plans. So, I appreciate why he is so unhappy that he hasnt been able 
to get swift and accurate answers from Aviva. Mr Cs concerns are numerous,  but in 
essence he believes Avivas customer service has been poor.  Aviva  doesnt deny this, it 
accepts that it has let Mr C down on a number of occasions. So, the main issue  for me to 
determine is whether  the compensation offered fairly  reflects  the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr C. However, I will consider  the issue of the TFC separately, as I appreciate  
Mr C says this is still unresolved.
Inconvenience caused by delays and misinformation
Mr C has provided a breakdown of what he believes  to be fair compensation for the issues  
hes experienced. He doesnt believe hes received  any compensation for Avivas  failure to 
respond to the concerns he raised  in 2014.  Hes also said that Avivas  failure  to provide 
information about his plans in 2016  and 2017  has damaged his pension  portfolio.  He said he 
had to withdraw cash twice from a plan with another provider, so his portfolio was weighted 
in favour  of Aviva. Mr C also feels he should  be refunded the management charges because  
the pension plans were poorly managed. Lastly,  he believes he should  be compensated for 
his time at a rate of £10 per hour. Overall, Mr C estimates that he should be paid around 
£4,000 compensation in total.
I think it would be helpful if I explain our approach to compensation, which includes 
compensation for financial loss and for trouble and upset caused.  When  looking at a 
complaint we establish what  went  wrong,  and what shouldve happened  if things  hadnt  gone 
wrong. And our recommendations  seek to put customers in the position they wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt been made. So, when considering appropriate compensation,  it is 
the impact of the mistakes that are the most important consideration, rather than the 
mistakes themselves.
Ref: DRN60138983While Mr C has been offered different sums  of compensation at different times in response 
to different  aspects of his complaint, my role is to look at the complaints he asked us to 
consider and the compensation  that has been offered to him as a whole.
Fortunately, it doesnt appear  that Mr C has suffered any financial loss as a result  of the poor 
customer service  he experienced.  Although hes referred to his pension portfolio being  
damaged by having to withdraw  funds  from another plan instead of from his Aviva plans, he 
hasnt explained  what this damage is. I appreciate that he wouldve preferred to withdraw 
funds from his Aviva plans, but he hasnt shown us that withdrawing funds from an 
alternative plan has caused him to experience a financial loss. So, in the absence  of 
evidence of a financial loss, Ive considered the compensation offered for inconvenience  he 
experienced here instead.
Regarding the management charges, I appreciate  Mr C is unhappy with the service  
provided, and I agree  it fell short on a number of occasions.  But as Ive said above,  our role 
is to put parties  back into the position they wouldve been in if the poor service or mistakes  
hadnt happened. If the service had been as expected, Mr C wouldve always  paid the 
management charges,  with Aviva or another provider. For this reason,  I wouldnt ask Aviva 
to refund these charges  it still provided the services for which these charges are applied. 
Instead, the appropriate remedy  is to ensure Mr C is compensated for the trouble and upset 
caused by the poor service he experienced.
In light of what Ive said above, Ive considered whether the £1,300  offered to Mr C for the 
issues experienced between 2014 and March 2017  is reasonable. Its clear to me that Mr C 
has spent considerable time dealing with this issue.  But we dont make awards based on 
units of time. Instead Ive looked at the overall impact Avivas mistakes  had on Mr C.
It seems  to me the mistakes certainly  caused Mr C frustration, and he was left without  
concrete information  that he needed  in order  to discuss his retirement  options with pensions 
experts. But I dont think the evidence Ive seen shows Mr C was prevented  from accessing 
money when he needed  it; he was able to withdraw funds  from other  plans, which hasnt 
disadvantaged him overall. So, I do think the impact  of the mistakes  was limited in that 
respect.
I can also see that a lot of Mr Cs frustrations were  with Avivas complaint-handling 
processes. As complaint-handling  isnt a separate regulated activity, I cant make  awards  for 
this alone. But Ive taken into account how the delays related to Avivas complaint-handling  
have added to Mr Cs overall inconvenience.  I agree it took too long for Aviva to provide 
what ought to have been easily accessible information. And it does appear that when some 
information was sent to him in the post, it was also inaccurate, which wouldve only added  to 
his frustration.
Overall, I think that the offer of £1,300  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It is a 
significant sum, which falls into our substantial range of awards for trouble and upset. I think 
it fairly reflects  the inconvenience Mr C experienced and the time hes invested in pursuing  
the complaint.  I appreciate that Mr C feels differently;  he says has been a loyal customer 
over more than two decades and holds substantial funds with Aviva.  He says Avivas offer 
doesnt recognise this. But I wouldnt expect Avivas  treatment  of Mr C to be any different to 
the service it would provide to a new customer, and I dont think the size of their investment 
is a relevant consideration. In the absence of evidence to show  that the mistakes caused  Mr 
C more than general frustration and inconvenience,  I think  this sum is fair.
Ref: DRN60138984TFC available under  plan F
Mr C received a letter  from Aviva in 2014  which asked him to provide information so it could 
establish whether  he was entitled to any enhanced TFC amount under plan F. Aviva later 
explained that Mr C received  this by mistake, for which it apologised. In a letter dated 
27 June 2016,  Aviva told Mr C that when the benefits under his former employers (G) 
scheme had been  transferred to it, the former scheme administrator had confirmed that the 
TFC available to him was limited to 25%.  It said their calculation  wouldve been based on 
Mr Cs particular circumstances and Aviva  wasnt permitted to calculate  or pay out a different  
amount to that set by the scheme  administrator. So, Mr C was only entitled  to 25% TFC 
under this plan.
I appreciate Mr C wasnt persuaded  by this, particularly as by this time hed lost faith in 
Avivas ability  to provide  him with accurate information. So, I can understand why he felt that 
he needed more  information to go on. I can see he suggested that The Pensions Advisory  
Service (TPAS) consider this issue in more detail. Mr C is unhappy that Aviva  didnt 
respond to this suggestion,  but I dont think he needed Avivas explicit permission to 
approach TPAS. So, I dont think Aviva  not responding to this specific point was 
unreasonable. But I think Aviva couldve approached the former scheme administrator for 
further information to provide Mr C with extra assurance.
The investigator was provided with a copy of the information Aviva received from the former 
scheme administrator  showing that it didnt consider Mr C was entitled to more  than 25% 
TFC. He sent this to Mr C. He also asked the former  scheme  administrator  to provide further 
explanation. It provided the scheme rules  and confirmed that members of Mr Cs former 
pension scheme  with G may have been entitled to enhanced TFC in respect  of any service  
up until 6 April 2006. But it also said that any members transferring their funds away from the 
scheme would  have lost any enhancement  they'd  accrued upon transfer to another scheme.  
Although Mr C was contributing into Gs scheme  from January 2005  onwards, the benefits 
he'd accrued  within this scheme were  transferred across  to Aviva in 2008. So, 
notwithstanding that the former scheme  administrator has said Mr C wasnt  entitled to an 
enhanced TFC entitlement, even if he had been, this wouldve been lost on transfer if it 
hadnt been specifically protected.
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I dont think Aviva has misinformed Mr C with regard to 
his TFC entitlement. It has confirmed on a number of occasions that it is limited to 25%.  I 
appreciate Mr C still has reservations about  this, but he hasnt been able to provide any 
documentation or evidence showing that this conclusion  is incorrect. So, in the absence of 
any other information I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that his TFC 
entitlement is 25%. 
Aviva agreed that it should have sought  this information sooner, as this would have provided 
Mr C with further reassurance. For this reason, it has agreed to offer a further  £200  
compensation. Mr C feels he should receive  more compensation for this. But I agree that this 
extra sum is reasonable in the circumstances.  I say this because  even if Mr C had been  
given this information sooner, it seems to me he still wouldve questioned it, although he 
wouldve been in a more informed position.  For this reason, I dont think  Aviva  needs to 
increase the amount offered.
I understand the investigator sent Mr C a copy of Gs scheme  rules.  He has since said that 
these rules are incorrect as he was a member of Gs defined  benefits scheme. This doesnt 
Ref: DRN60138985tie up with the evidence Ive seen,  which shows Mr C was a member of Gs money  purchase  
scheme. And the former  scheme administrator confirmed Mr Cs member record shows he 
was a member of a defined contribution  (money purchase) scheme.  Nevertheless,  I havent 
relied on the scheme rules to reach my decision. Im satisfied that based on the information 
available to Aviva, which  was provided  by the former  scheme  administrator  when  the 
benefits were transferred  away from the scheme,  the explanation  Aviva has given to Mr C 
about his TFC entitlement was reasonable. If Mr C obtains information to the contrary, he 
should provide  this to Aviva for it to consider.
I understand Mr C is also unhappy that Aviva didnt have a copy  of his scheme rules. He 
should refer his concerns to Aviva in the first instance as a new complaint if he wishes  to 
pursue this further.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint  in part.
I understand Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already paid Mr C £1,300. My decision is 
that it should pay him a further £200 compensation in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013898