K821x#15complaint
Mr H complained that CIS General Insurance Limited cancelled  his motor  insurance policy  
unfairly after the first instalment of his premium wasnt paid on the renewal  date.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within the provisional decision  on this complaint.  In 
summary, Mr Hs motor  policy,  which hed paid by monthly instalments since  2013, was due 
to renew on 25 February 2019. On 26 February  he had an accident and reported this to CIS 
and said his payment  hadnt gone  through. CISs agent told Mr H his policy  was still in place 
if he made a card payment. Another agent  then told him it couldnt take the payment and 
said his policy hadnt renewed and he wasnt insured when he had his accident. 
CIS said its renewal documents were clear  the policy wouldnt renew if the first instalment 
wasnt paid. CIS said it took 24 hours for the payment failure to appear on its systems and it 
then told Mr H it would his policy hadnt renewed  and it wouldnt deal with his claim. It said it 
would deal with the other  drivers  claim  under  the Road Traffic Act (RTA)  rules.  CIS 
apologised for its agent  incorrectly saying he was insured at the time of his accident and 
sent him £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.  
  
Mr H complained to us. He said his policy  with CIS had renewed automatically  since 2013, 
and he felt it was now treating  him unfairly.  He said his failed payment was a genuine  error  
and he wouldnt have  driven if hed known he wasnt insured. He said CIS should accept his 
payment for the missed  direct debit and deal with his claim.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He thought when Mr H reported  the 
accident CIS was wrong to say the policy had ended. He said CIS had given Mr H incorrect 
information about its RTA responsibilities as it would only be liable for the other drivers claim 
if the policy had been cancelled from the start (avoided). He said CIS should pay Mr H a total 
of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions had caused him.
CIS disagreed, saying  the policy ended the day before the accident.  It requested  an 
ombudsmans decision. CIS said Mr H hadnt  complained about misinformation on its RTA 
responsibilities and it wanted to look at this separately. It did this and apologised to Mr H and 
offered him £50 compensation for providing  incorrect information. 
Another ombudsman  at this service  provisionally decided that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He said CISs renewal documents stated  that if the first instalment wasnt made  the 
policy wouldnt renew. He thought this was clear and gave Mr H ample  warning he wouldnt 
be insured if this happened. He said Mr H knew the first payment hadnt been  taken. And the 
fact the policy  wasnt  in force when he had his accident wasnt  because CISs fault. He didnt 
think CIS was obliged to deal with the other drivers claim. And he thought the compensation 
for the trouble caused by the incorrect advice about its RTA responsibilities was fair. 
As the ombudsman wasnt in a position to issue  a final decision, the complaint was passed 
to me. I thought  the complaint should be upheld,  and I sent a further provisional decision.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN63658212CIS has dealt with Mr Hs complaint concerning  incorrect information about its RTA 
responsibilities, separately and so, Im not going to comment further on it in this decision. 
I said Mr H stated that he wasnt aware  his payment had failed when he had his accident.  I 
said that our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy documentation and good  industry  practice. 
Mr Hs policy  automatically renewed  with CIS since 2013 and it sent a renewal invitation for 
2019. This was clear  that if the first instalment wasn't taken the policy  wouldnt renew. I said 
I understood why CIS ended Mr Hs policy, but I didnt think  this was good industry practice.
And I didnt  think CIS had treated  him fairly. I said this with their long-term relationship in 
mind, what  CISs agent said and what wouldve  happened if hed missed  a later payment.  
I said its good industry practice for an insurer to send  customers  a warning  that cover will 
end if the missed payment isnt made. I said this because of the implications of not having  a 
policy renewed and the possibility of a customer not realising a payment had been  missed 
and driving uninsured. I said if CIS had done this Mr H would still have been insured when 
he had his accident and would have  been able to make  the payment to continue the policy.  
I said we had checked the approach that other  major insurers adopt  in similar circumstances 
(with anonymised parties).  All said that they wouldnt have  cancelled  a policy without giving a 
customer the opportunity  to correct a failed payment. This reinforced our view that CIS 
hasnt followed good industry practice.
CIS responded that in the previous ombudsmans and my provisional decisions  wed agreed 
that the terms of the policy were clear and that it had acted in line with them. But that I had 
then taken a different approach by looking at 'good industry practice' based on a selection of 
anonymised insurers.  CIS said it didnt  recognise the practice  I described  to be universal 
industry practice, nor did it agree  that it had acted unfairly. CIS said it followed its standard 
renewal process which the previous ombudsman had described as clear and reasonable.
I said that CIS would  have  written to Mr H giving him 21 days  to make the missed payment if 
had been later in the policy year. And I thought that was because it appreciates people  may 
miss payments due to unforeseen circumstances without realising. And that they need a 
chance to put this right, as opposed  to immediately  being left uninsured without realising it. I 
said Im surprised CIS adopts  a different approach in relation to the first instalment. 
CIS responded that the first direct debit instalment is the commitment  to enter into a new 
contract of insurance. It said within the contract  it allows a grace  period for late payments 
before termination.  It said at renewal the contract  terminates and the customer  either  opts to 
take up the new offer by making the first payment, or allows  the policy to lapse by not 
paying. CIS said in its experience many customers dont contact it at renewal if they don't  
want to renew, and just cancel their payments. And it said this is why it communicates 
clearly in renewal documentation that the first payment needs  to be taken on the due date.
I said that CISs agent told Mr H it wasnt a problem his payment had failed and appears to 
have thought CIS would  give some sort of warning before ending the cover. I thought  it was 
obvious from Mr Hs history  with CIS and from what he said when he made  his claim that he 
intended to renew  his policy. And, in light of this, I thought CISs treatment of Mr H was 
unduly harsh. If he was a relatively new customer with a history of payment issues,  who may 
not have intended to renew his policy and was driving knowing he may not be insured, I said 
I might  take a different view. But I thought that wasnt the case  with Mr H. 
Ref: DRN63658213CIS said Mr H often  missed payments and paid late by phone  and was well aware of its 
payment process.  CIS said in a call with Mr H when he paid the last instalment before 
renewal, its agent  said his policy  would  renew  shortly and payment would have  to be made.
I said that although my colleague took a different  view on this complaint, I have to reach an 
outcome that I consider fair and reasonable. And for the reasons Id given I thought  CIS 
should have automatically renewed  Mr Hs policy and kept it in force  until it had told him the 
first instalment had been missed. And then given him sufficient time to make  the payment. I 
thought Mr Hs policy would and should have  been in force when he had his accident. 
CIS said I had noted Mr H wasnt aware  his payment had failed when he had his accident. 
CIS said this contradicted  the previous ombudsman, who stated "I think Mr H was aware  that 
his direct debit hadn't been  taken.  It's unfortunate that he then chose to drive his car and had 
an accident when  no policy  was in place". CIS said Mr H knew his payment had failed when 
he called  about  the accident  35 minutes later, so he must have checked  his payments during 
that time.  CIS said that Mr H was aware that he wouldnt be insured if his payment failed and 
this may explain why he checked his account  before calling. CIS said Mr H decided to drive  
his car contrary to the RTA rules without ensuring  insurance cover was in place. 
I thought that in upholding the complaint it would be fair and reasonable for CIS to provide 
Mr H with a letter confirming provision  of insurance  cover from 25 to 26 February 2019, for 
when he had his accident. I thought CIS should deal with the other drivers claim against Mr 
H and if Mr H has paid the claim,  CIS would need to reimburse what  he has paid.
I said that as Mr H hasnt paid any premium, because his policy  wasnt renewed CIS can 
deduct a pro rata premium for the period he was effectively  on cover, (25 to 26 February 
2019) from the compensation I intended  to award  for distress and inconvenience. I said Mr H 
arranged alternative  cover for his car and as this cost less than he was going to pay for the 
policy with CIS, he hadnt lost out financially as a result of having  to do this. 
I thought CISs actions  and unreasonable approach caused Mr H inconvenience and a lot of 
worry about a claim  from the other driver and of being uninsured  at the time of an accident.  I 
thought CIS should pay Mr H compensation of £500. If Mr H has cashed the cheque for £25 
compensation CIS sent him for the incorrect advice its claim handler  provided CIS can take 
this off the £500.  
CIS asked  that I reconsider my findings in light of its comments. Mr H said he didnt  have 
any further points  and said that the Citizens Advice Bureau  is helping him to deal with the 
others drivers  lawyer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain of the view that 
this complaint should be upheld and for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
I said that I thought  it is good industry practice  for an insurer to send customers  a warning 
that cover  will end if a missed payment isnt made. CIS said that everyone agrees that the 
terms of the policy  were clear and that it had acted  in line with them.  But I had then taken a 
different approach by looking at 'good industry  practice'  based on a selection of anonymised 
insurers. CIS said it didnt recognise  the practice I described to be universal industry  
Ref: DRN63658214practice, and didnt agree it had acted unfairly. CIS said it followed its standard renewal 
process which the previous ombudsman had described as clear and reasonable.
Its not a requirement  on me that my view of what constitutes good industry practice reflects  
how insurers currently act. However,  our research into the practises adopted by major 
insurers in similar circumstances  to Mr Hs, shows that all would have given their customers  
the opportunity  to correct a failed first payment of an insurance contract. I hadnt said this 
was universal industry practice  but it appears  to be an established good industry practice.
I accept what CIS says about the warnings it gave  Mr H in advance of renewal about  the 
requirement for his payment to be made.  I also accept CISs comment  about many 
customers not contacting it if they don't want to renew, and just cancelling their payments. 
However, this is the same  for all insurers, but its clear they dont all react  in a similar 
fashion. In any event, Mr H didnt cancel his direct  debit instruction and CIS would have 
been able to see this. CIS says it knew about  his pattern of previous missed payments and I 
understand that Mr H had always  called and made these payments by phone.  He had 
always received a warning from CIS to do so and had never had his policy cancelled. Mr Hs 
policy with CIS had auto-renewed since 2013 and I think  CIS has ignored his intention to 
renew his policy  in 2019.
CIS said Ive contradicted  the previous ombudsmans statement about whether or not Mr H 
was aware his payment had failed when  he had his accident. In truth neither of us can be 
sure, but Mr H told me he is well aware of the risks of driving uninsured and wasnt  aware his 
direct debit had failed before he drove  his car. He said he checked  his online banking when 
he got home and realised  his direct debit had failed. I have to reach my own decision about  
what I think is most likely  to have taken place. And, on balance, I dont accept CISs 
comment that Mr H decided  to drive his car contrary to the RTA rules without ensuring  that 
he had insurance  cover in place.  
All the parties  to this complaint are aware  of the very serious  implications of not having  a 
policy renewed and the possibility of a customer not realising a payment had been  missed 
and consequently driving uninsured. I think CIS heightened the risk of this happening by 
cancelling Mr Hs policy without allowing him the opportunity to correct  his failed payment. I 
think that CIS should put this right by confirming Mr Hs cover was in place and dealing with 
any claim arising from the accident. I also remain of the view that by not doing  this, CIS has 
caused Mr H significant distress and inconvenience  and should pay him a total of £500 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require CIS 
General Insurance Limited to do the following:
Issue Mr H with a letter confirming cover was in force at the time of his accident, i.e. 25 
to 26 February 2019.
Deal with Mr Hs claim and the other  drivers claim against Mr H as appropriate.
Pay Mr H £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience,  less the pro rata 
premium due for the period  he was on cover with CIS, as above. And, less the £25 it has 
already paid Mr H in compensation, if hes cashed  the cheque  it sent him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20May 2020.
Ref: DRN63658215Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6365821