K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn) have made mistakes when 
applying late payment charges to her account and sending letters chasing payments when 
none were due.
background
Miss C set up a direct  debit with Moneybarn on 15 December 2016. Payments were to be 
made on the first day of every month.  In January 2018 she asked them  to change the date of 
her February payment. They agreed to move it to 20 February and Miss C paid, in time, on 
16 February. 
But she was disappointed to find that a late payment  charge was levied and the account  was 
reported as overdue. She complained to Moneybarn  and disputed the arrears.  But whilst this 
dispute was in process Moneybarn charged  for another late payment  in March they said 
Miss C had consequently  missed.
Moneybarn subsequently refunded the late payment charges.  They  explained that payment 
dates could only be moved 21 days past the date of the original payment day and Miss Cs 
request to move the payment date exceeded this. So instead of delaying the February 
payment they brought the March payment forward. This led their system to log a missed  
payment in February and suggest  the account  was in arrears.
Our adjudicator didnt  think theyd been  fair. He understood Moneybarns explanation around  
processing date delays but he thought if that was the case  they should have explained the 
ramifications to Miss C and that this would have avoided her having to enter in to a payment 
plan with them to recover the arrears. He noted  that Moneybarn  had also been sending  
recovery letters to Miss C despite her account, and the payment plan to recover the arrears,  
being up to date. So overall  he was not persuaded that Miss C had received a satisfactory  
level of service and he thought  to put things  right Moneybarn should pay Miss C £150 
compensation and remove  any adverse credit reports they may have recorded on her credit 
file in February and March  2018.
Moneybarn didnt respond so Miss Cs complaint  was referred for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN60164002Miss C wanted to change  her payment  date because  she was struggling  to make the 
payment on the usual  date. She clearly  didnt want to make two payments in the month  by 
bringing the following months  forward.
So regardless of the rules that understandably prohibit  Moneybarn  moving  the payment date 
too far, they should have  explained to Miss C it wasnt  possible rather than move a future 
payment forward.
They were  right to return the late payment charge here as I think theyd been unfair to 
Miss C and they were  also right to remove the subsequent late payment charge they made,  
for a missed  payment in March, when it was clear the arrears were  in dispute and had been 
generated because Moneybarn hadnt explained the ramifications of the pay date change 
request being  approved.
But its clear Miss C has been inconvenienced by their actions. Its taken some time to clarify  
whats gone wrong and shes had to find an additional £20 per month to pay off arrears that 
were avoidable.  Shes  also received letters to chase  payments when she was up to date. So 
I think Moneybarn should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  their actions 
have caused her, and in the circumstances I think £150 is reasonable. They should also 
amend any adverse credit reports they may have made in the period.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
to:
pay Miss C £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
have caused
remove any adverse credit reports made to credit reference  agencies about Miss Cs 
account in February and March 2018
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6016400