K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about Sterling ISA Managers Limited (SIM). He feels SIM is partly 
responsible for financial losses  he considers he suffered following the transfer of his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) funds to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) on 
SIMs Platform.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
Mr Fs original financial advisers were a company Ill refer to as Adviser A. As Adviser  A 
didnt have the required permissions to give advice on the transfer  of OPS benefits, it 
suggested Mr F take advice from a company  Ill refer to as Adviser  B, as financial advisers 
which had the necessary  permissions.
Mr F was sent Adviser Bs recommendation on 25 August 2015.  Adviser B advised  Mr F to 
transfer his OPS funds  to a SIPP held on SIMs Platform.  Regarding  where Mr Fs SIPP 
would ultimately be invested Adviser B said:
On receipt  at [SIM], the transfer payment will be invested in line with your existing 
investments which  I understand are as follows  () 
The three funds  Mr F wanted his funds invested  in were outlined in Adviser Bs letter.  
Adviser B enclosed SIMs Key Facts  and Key Features Document and confirmed SIM would 
send further information. 
Mr F accepted Adviser Bs recommendation,  completed and signed the SIPP  application and 
remuneration declaration  form and asked for the transfer to go ahead.  
The transfer process was initiated by Adviser B. It got in touch with the appropriate parties.
On 16 September  2015 SIM sent Mr F additional  documentation for his SIPP. 
Because Adviser B hadnt used SIMs Platform before it asked for help completing Mr Fs 
transfer. Emails from the time show Adviser B asked for help with the release of its adviser  
fee and payment of Mr Fs tax free cash (TFC). Adviser B had a support session and call 
with one of SIMs consultants  on 4 January 2016.  
Mr Fs OPS funds  were later received by SIM and placed in his new SIPP. Emails from the 
time show Adviser B and SIM confirming  with each other that Mr Fs OPS  funds were 
successfully transferred to his new SIPP.  There was no mention of what Mr Fs funds  had 
been invested in. Mr Fs money remained in Cash.
On 14 January 2016 Adviser  B contacted SIM querying the payment  of its adviser fee. SIM 
responded and said that on 4 January the expectation of payment had been keyed into its 
system by Adviser B. However it still needed  Mr Fs signature on the remuneration 
declaration form to be able to pay out the keyed amount. SIM said it hadnt received  this 
form and asked if it had been emailed or posted. Adviser B emailed SIM a copy of Mr Fs 
completed form on the same day.
Ref: DRN64246392Adviser Bs adviser fee was later paid and the servicing of Mr Fs SIPP  was passed to 
Adviser A.
On 14 February 2017 Mr F had a review with Adviser  A. It was identified  that the 2016 
transfer hadnt been completed successfully. Mr Fs OPS benefits had been  transferred to a 
SIPP with SIM but not been invested in the specific funds hed requested. They  were  still 
held in Cash. Mr F later raised  a complaint against SIM.
SIM provided its final response to Mr Fs complaint  on 7 April 2017. In summary  it said:
in advance of a transfer  or the investment of money being  received into its SIPP a 
financial adviser had to key an expectation online.  This meant  the adviser provided 
instructions which SIM would follow
Adviser B was the adviser responsible for the transfer of funds into Mr Fs SIPP and 
their intended investment
Adviser B keyed in the expectation  Mr Fs SIPP funds would be placed in Cash. It 
may have been Adviser Bs intention for a lump sum to be paid to Mr F and the 
remainder invested, however this instruction was never actually keyed into SIMs 
system
it had acted in accordance  with the instructions it had received. And neither Mr F nor 
Adviser B had requested that Mr Fs SIPP funds be moved  into a particular fund
it didnt think it had made a mistake  so didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint
Unhappy with SIMs response Mr F referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and initially concluded that Adviser  B and 
SIM hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr F responded and disagreed. He made a number  of points  and maintained he thought SIM 
were partially responsible.  Our investigator reconsidered the matter and agreed. He said that 
based on the available evidence he thought SIM was partly responsible for what happened.  
SIM responded and disagreed. In summary it said:
the terms and conditions for Mr Fs SIPP set out the fact that SIMs responsibility was 
to act on valid instructions from Mr Fs advisers and Mr Fs advisers were responsible 
for submitting  instructions  correctly and in line with its clients  wishes
SIM wasnt responsible for exercising  any judgement as to the merits of any 
instructions received
SIMs Platform was adviser led and its consultants werent permitted to provide any 
advice and there was no evidence  to suggest  this had happened
Mr Fs adviser  was responsible for keying  in investment information correctly for Mr 
Fs SIPP  on the Platform and ensuring  Mr Fs requirements had been correctly 
actioned
SIM wasnt responsible for any of Mr Fs losses
Because no agreement could  be reached the matter was passed  to me. And my provisional 
findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken 
Ref: DRN64246393note of the extensive arguments and comments made, I have  limited  my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  will only deal with SIMs actions. Adviser Bs actions are being  dealt  
with in a provisional decision  Ive issued  under  a separate reference.
Mr F considers SIM to be partially responsible for the financial losses he says he 
experienced when his SIPP funds  werent  invested  in line with his wishes.  But I havent  seen 
anything which suggests that it was actually  SIMs role to ensure Mr Fs funds were  invested 
correctly once they were  transferred into his new SIPP  from his OPS. This was Adviser Bs 
responsibility as Mr Fs adviser. 
The terms and conditions  applicable to Mr Fs SIPP and SIMs Platform  confirm  the 
following:
SIM is the SIPP and Platform  provider-  we are the provider ()
SIMs Platform and SIPP were only ever available  through  Mr Fs adviser
Adviser B was responsible for arranging where Mr Fs money was invested and 
ensuring this was done correctly-  Each  time your adviser  sets up a () transfer your 
adviser must advise  us of your investment strategy  specifying what  assets to buy () 
It is the responsibility of your adviser  () to ensure that the instructions they place on 
your behalf  have been transacted. We will only provide confirmation of completed 
transactions () 
Your adviser is responsible for () Giving us instructions on your behalf,  usually by 
submitting those instructions online and ensuring such instructions have been 
executed correctly-  only your adviser  (..) can submit instructions to us online
I dont think theres any ambiguity in the applicable  terms  and conditions  regarding what  
Adviser B and SIMs roles were with regards to Mr Fs transfer. Indeed it seems clear to me 
that as Mr Fs advisers Adviser B was ultimately responsible for the investment of the funds 
in his new SIPP. SIM is merely the Provider  of the SIPP and the Platform  its held on.
Im also mindful that Adviser  B doesnt  deny it had a duty to ensure Mr Fs funds were  
invested correctly  when it says:
we agree completely  that we have a duty of care to review that money  is invested  correctly 
after a transfer  ().
Advisers Engagement  letter  to Mr F also similarly  confirmed what  Adviser Bs role and 
responsibility was. 
So considering what was known and agreed at the outset, there was nothing  to suggest SIM 
would be responsible for the successful transfer  and investment  of Mr Fs funds. On this 
basis Im unable to find that SIM is responsible for Mr Fs funds  not being invested  correctly.
Im aware that Mr F considers SIM to be partly at fault for the financial losses  hes suffered 
based on the explanation  Adviser B has provided for what  happened.  And while I dont  doubt  
Ref: DRN64246394Mr Fs strength of feeling  on the matter  the available evidence doesnt  support his or Adviser 
Bs assertion that SIM is partly to blame.  Ill explain why.
Adviser B confirmed it was aware  of where Mr F wanted his SIPP  funds invested and 
outlined the details of this in its Engagement  letter to him. So the investment of Mr Fs funds  
shouldve happened. Adviser B doesnt appear to dispute this. However it doesnt accept 
that its responsible  for Mr Fs funds not being invested correctly.
Adviser B has said that because it was unfamiliar with SIMs Platform  it requested help from 
SIM regarding the actions that needed  to be taken following  the transfer of Mr Fs funds to it. 
Adviser B says that as part of this SIM arranged the investment of Mr Fs funds once they 
reached his new SIPP.  And it says it had no reason to doubt that this had been done 
correctly at the time. SIM disputes this and says investing clients  funds isnt something its 
Platform agents are permitted to do. Only Adviser B as Mr Fs adviser is able to do this by 
inputting instructions on SIMs platform.  Again  this is confirmed in SIMs terms and 
conditions which say, It is the responsibility of your adviser  () to ensure  that the 
instructions they place  on your behalf have  been transacted.  We will only provide 
confirmation of completed  transactions ().
The available evidence doesnt  show SIM received  any instructions from Adviser B regarding 
where Mr Fs funds should  be invested. SIM has also provided a screenshot  which shows  Mr 
Fs transfer funds were  keyed into its Platform to be invested 100% in Cash.  The funds he 
wanted to invest  in are listed  but none  of Mr Fs money is allocated to these funds.  It 
appears Mr Fs money  was transferred  into his SIPP in Cash  and no further  action was 
taken.
Even if I were to accept  that Adviser B asked SIM for help with allocating Mr Fs funds to 
specific investments, Adviser B was still ultimately  responsible for ensuring Mr Fs funds 
were invested where they should  be. Im also mindful of the fact that SIMs terms and 
conditions clearly state: We will only provide confirmation of completed  transactions. 
Emails from the time show the only confirmation Adviser  B received from SIM was that Mr 
Fs funds had been allocated  to his SIPP account and that the appropriate TFC had been  
paid. Theres nothing  to show  SIM was asked for or provided any confirmation to Adviser B 
about the investment of Mr Fs funds.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that if SIM had provided Adviser  B with the 
assistance it says it did thered  be confirmation of this. However  the available evidence 
doesnt demonstrate this.
For the reasons  Ive explained I havent been  able to find that SIM is at fault for the reasons 
Mr F has suggested.  I dont think SIM was responsible in the first place for the investment of 
Mr Fs funds  and I dont think it became responsible  even when Adviser B says it asked SIM 
for assistance. Theres nothing to show Adviser  B requested help with the investment of Mr 
Fs funds and even if there was it was still ultimately  Adviser Bs responsibility  to make sure 
all aspects of the transfer  went  through correctly.
I invited Mr F and Sterling ISA Managers  Limited  to comment on my provisional decision.
Sterling ISA Managers Limited accepted  my provisional decision and made no further 
comments. Mr F responded and said he found  my conclusions  acceptable.  He provided 
comments regarding his complaint against  Adviser B but I will respond to these when I issue 
my final decision under the relevant  reference  for that complaint.
Ref: DRN64246395my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  remains as before (and as set out above). That means  Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint for the reasons Ive given.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Chillel Williams
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6424639