K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC allowed him to go over his agreed overdraft and 
emergency borrowing  limit.
background
Mr J has an agreed  overdraft  and emergency borrowing limit with Barclays. Towards  the end 
of 2017 Mr J went over those limits and incurred interest and charges on his account. Hes 
also struggling to repay what  he owes to Barclays. He considers the bank shouldnt  have 
allowed him to go over the limits by such a large amount.
During the course of the complaint Barclays accepted that it may not have done enough to 
assess Mr Js circumstances when he went over the agreed limits. It refunded the interest 
and charges it had applied  to the account  during the period  in question.
Our investigator thought this was fair. Barclays had accepted it couldve engaged with Mr J 
sooner, and had it done so he might have  avoided some of the account charges and 
interest. 
But the investigator found that Mr J had overall  responsibility for managing his account, and 
he was also satisfied that Mr J had used the money hed borrowed. So the investigator  didnt  
think it was reasonable  to ask Barclays to reduce the amount he had to pay back,  as Mr J 
wanted.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He maintained  that Barclays  shouldve 
restricted the spending on his account once hed gone over the limit. Mr J also thought it was 
wrong for Barclays to offer to extend his credit  card limit at a time when it knew he had 
financial difficulties.
Mr J asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about the circumstances of this complaint, and the steps taken by 
Barclays to resolve it. 
Keeping in mind  Mr Js particular circumstances,  I havent been able to safely conclude that 
Barclays properly assessed  the likelihood that he would be able to repay  the money he used 
once hed gone over the agreed  overdraft  and emergency borrowing limit.
It seems  Barclays reached the same  conclusion. If Barclays hadnt already refunded the 
charges and interest it applied to the account,  I wouldve  suggested that it should do so to 
settle the complaint.
Barclays doesnt allow standing orders  and direct debits to cause Mr J to go over his 
overdraft and emergency borrowing limits. So I can see why Mr J might  think  he shouldnt 
have to repay all of the excess  money  Barclays allowed him to withdraw  in cash.  
Ref: DRN61445532But I have to keep  in mind that Mr J had the use of the money he borrowed. And Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that Mr J wasnt aware  of the position on his account through online 
statements and the Barclays mobile banking app. It seems  Barclays also wrote to him on 
several occasions to tell him that direct debits couldnt be paid because there wasnt  enough 
money in his account.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Barclays to reduce the 
amount Mr J owes.
I can also understand why Mr J is unhappy that Barclays has offered to increase his credit  
card limit. But the bank  wont increase the limit unless he agrees to it  and Mr J isnt obliged 
to accept the increase.
When I take account of the circumstances overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to refund the interest and charges on Mr Js account.  As it has already  made  the 
refund I wont be asking it to do anything else. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6144553