K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mr K are complaining that Eldon  Insurance Services Ltd (Eldon) didnt clearly 
explain it was going to cancel their van insurance policy.  
Mr S and Mr K are represented by Mr Ks wife in this complaint. But for ease of reference I 
shall refer to any representations she made as being made  by Mr K.
background
Mr K took out a van insurance policy through Eldon  a broker   with him as the policyholder  
and Mr S as a named driver. Mr S was later involved in an accident  and contacted Eldon to 
claim on the policy, but Eldon said it had cancelled it. Mr K complained to Eldon that it hadnt 
told him it had cancelled the policy.
Eldon says that it contacted Mr K a number of times  asking him to provide copies of his and 
Mr Ss driving licence and proof of his No Claims Discount (NCD). It said that Mr K didnt 
provide proof of his NCD, so it cancelled the policy. It said it had contacted Mr K on the 
following occasions:
23/05/18  it sent the policy documents and asked him to provide copies of his and Mr Ss 
driving licence and proof of his NCD.
07/05/18 -it sent a letter chasing  the above  documents.
14/05/18 -it sent a letter saying if it didnt receive  the documents by 21 May 2018 it would 
cancel the policy.
15/05/18 -it sent Mr K a text message saying it needed him to send documents.
19/05/18 -it sent Mr K an email asking  him to provide the documents.
21/05/18 - it spoke  with Mr K and said that it needed him to provide the documentation by 
5pm or the policy would be cancelled. It said that Mr K provided copies of the 
driving licences, but not the proof of NCD;
22/05/18 -it emailed  Mr K to say that it still required proof  of his NCD.
It said it also provided him a refund of £877.47. It didnt think  it acted unfairly in cancelling  
the insurance policy. But as a gesture of goodwill  it reduced  the cancellation fee by £25.
Mr K says he received  the letter of 14 May 2018.  But he disputes  that he received anything 
else. And he says that he was never  told the policy was cancelled. He says he would never 
knowingly drive uninsured.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Mr S and Mr K are complaining that Eldon cancelled their insurance policy without  giving 
them any notice. Eldon cancelled the policy because it hadnt received proof of the NCD 
which it says it asked  Mr S and Mr K to provide on number of occasions
I can see that, after the policy started Eldon   on behalf of the insurer  wrote  to and emailed 
Mr S and Mr K on at least  four occasions  asking them to provide copies  of their driving 
licences and also proof of their NCD. Its not unusual for insurers to require this information 
and it was Mr S and Mr Ks responsibility to provide it.
Mr K says that he didnt  receive any correspondence from Eldon until 18 May 2018 asking 
him to provide  proof  of his and Mr Ks driving  licence. He maintains that he didnt receive the 
Ref: DRN68457872letters sent before.  Im satisfied that its most likely that Eldon did send these letters to Mr K. 
While I dont dispute that Mr K didnt  see the letter sent on 7 May 2018,  I cant  hold it 
responsible if they didnt  arrive. I also think Mr K should have contacted  Eldon if he hadnt 
received his policy documents.
However, Mr K called Eldon on 21 May 2018  the day the policy was going  to cancel to ask 
what he needed to provide. The call handler specifically told him that the only thing that was 
still outstanding  was the driving licence codes for Mr K and Mr S. And he gave Mr K the 
email address for him to send this to.
I think the call handler  clearly also should have  highlighted  the need  for him to provide the 
proof of NCD. Mr K reasonably relied on the call handler to give clear information and 
explain what  was needed. And I think had he done  so, Mr K would have provided this. 
Im also conscious that the call handler  set out what hed told Mr K in Eldons internal file 
notes. And, had this been reviewed prior to the policy being cancelled, I think  it would have 
been apparent  an error had been  made  on the telephone. And, given  the limited timeframes  
before the policy was going to be cancelled and the issues it was aware Mr K was having in 
receiving communication,  I think Eldon should have taken further steps  to contact him. I 
dont think sending one email was sufficient.
So I have  to conclude  that the reason  the policy was cancelled  was because  of the call 
handlers failing.  I also have to conclude that, had the policy  not been cancelled,  Mr S 
wouldnt have found himself uninsured on the accident.
Eldon says that it did explain  clearly within its email sent on 22 May that it still needed  proof 
of the NCD. So it doesnt think it would be unreasonable  to assume  that Mr K should have 
been aware this document had still been required. It also says that it did write  to Mr K on 24 
May 2018 advising that his cover had ended  and he was no longer insured to drive. It says it 
also sent a cancellation schedule with this letter. 
It says that, even if the policy  was unfairly  cancelled,  Mr K and Mr S still chose to drive  the 
vehicle after they were told the cover  had ended. 
I note Eldons comments in this respect. But its clear that Mr K was having issues receiving 
communication from Eldon. Ultimately, Im satisfied that its most likely  the policy wouldnt 
have been cancelled had the call handler  explained  that Mr K also needed to provide proof  
of his NCD  as he should have  done.
I dont think Mr K and Mr S would have  knowingly continued  to drive the vehicle had they 
known they were no longer insured. So Im satisfied that they didnt see the letter  that was 
sent. And I still think that the fundamental responsibility for Mr S being uninsured  when he 
had the accident has to rest with Eldon.
Given this, I think Eldon  should,  in effect, step into the insurers  shoes and consider the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It should also provide Mr K and Mr S 
a letter  of indemnity for them to use if theyre  prosecuted for driving without insurance.
However, I also think that Mr K and Mr S have to accept some responsibility  for whats 
happened as they should have called Eldon to confirm receipt of the driving licences, as 
Eldon asked them to do on the telephone  call. So Im not intending to require Eldon to pay 
any compensation for whats happened.
Ref: DRN68457873Eldon didnt accept  my provisional decision as it thinks that Mr K did receive the emails  that 
it sent. It that the emails it received from Mr K were  from the same  email addresses it sent 
them. It also highlighted that Mr K called Eldon shortly after it sent an email on 21 May 2018. 
And it queried what prompted  him to call if he didnt receive that email.  It further  said that 
notification of the policys cancellation was sent by post and email. So it maintains that Mr K 
should have been aware of the cancellation. And it doesnt believe its fair that its being held 
responsible for the claim.
Mr K didnt accept the decision. He said hed provided screenshots to show  that theyd 
successfully uploaded the driving  licences onto the portal. And he said he also had 
confirmation from the broker that they had received the licence summary which  he says was 
the only thing  he was asked for on the letter received from Eldon.
He said its the first time hes dealt with a company that sends  out many  letters  asking for 
different things, which he thinks is very unprofessional and can confuse a customer. He 
thinks its unfair that Eldon asked for his driving licence and then a few days later asked for 
his proof  of NCD. And he doesnt think Eldons process is fair.
Finally Mr K said that he doesnt think that Eldon sent the letters it said it sent and he 
maintains that he hadnt been informed the policy had been cancelled.  He says hes spent 
hours on the telephone trying to resolve  this matter  and the situation has caused him a lot of 
distress over the last year. And he feels hes been wrongly accused for not co-operating with 
Eldon.
Finally, he says his insurance premium  has significantly  increased because he had to 
urgently find insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the comments Eldon and Mr K have  provided, but I dont think Eldon  or Mr K have  
raised anything  new.  So Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional 
decision.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said, but I also find his testimony  inconsistent. Hes said 
that he didnt receive  the letters and emails that Eldon sent, but also at the same  time says 
that Eldon  confused him by sending letter after letter. Eldons internal system notes confirm  
that the letter and emails  in question were created. And Im satisfied that its most likely they 
were received.
I note Mr K says that he didnt receive any of the emails that Eldon sent him. But I can also 
see that he emailed the email address  that Eldon used to email him to send in the requested  
documents. And I cant  see that Eldon gave him that email address to send  the documents. 
So I think its most likely he would have  got that email  address  from the previous emails  
Eldon sent him.
Mr K says that Eldon confused him by continually asking for different information. But I dont  
agree Eldon has done so. In all the correspondence Eldon has sent, apart from the 
telephone call of 21 May 2019, Eldon has asked Mr K to provide the driving licence 
Ref: DRN68457874summaries for him and Mr S and his proof  of NCD. So I dont agree that Eldon has been 
inconsistent.
I also think its likely Mr K received the email  on 19 May 2018,  given that he called Eldon 
shortly afterwards. But from the telephone call Mr K had with Eldon its clear he didnt 
understand what he was being asked to provide and the call handler didnt give Mr K clear  
information. Im satisfied that, had the call handler  done so, Mr K would have provided the 
information needed. And it follows  that the policy  wouldnt  have been cancelled  had that 
happened. So I think Eldon has to accept responsibility for what happened  here.
I acknowledge Eldons comments that it notified  Mr K about  the policys  cancellation by post 
and email. And Im satisfied that its most likely they were sent.  But its also clear that Mr K 
didnt see them, as I dont  think he would have knowingly driven uninsured.  I appreciate 
Eldon thinks  its unfair its being held responsible for the claim, but I still think it was 
ultimately its responsible  for the policy  being unfairly cancelled. And Mr K being uninsured 
when the accident happened naturally  follows from this. The inescapable fact is that the 
vehicle would have  been insured had the policy not been cancelled.  So I still think Eldon 
should cover  the losses that have arisen from this.
But I also remain of the belief that Mr K has to accept some of the responsibility  for what  
happened. I note his comment  that the portal  confirmed that he had uploaded  the driving 
licence. But he was told to call Eldon when hed uploaded the forms and he didnt  do so. 
And, had he done  so, this would have prevented the further issues that arose. So I think it 
would be unfair  to require Eldon to pay compensation in addition to providing  indemnity for 
the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  And I require Eldon Insurance 
Services Ltd to step into the insurers shoes and consider the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should  also provide Mr K and Mr S a letter  of indemnity for them  to 
use if theyre prosecuted  for driving  without insurance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6845787