K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 1999 alongside a flexi loan.
background
Mr P applied for a flexi loan in June 1999.  This worked by allowing him an agreed loan limit 
which he could draw  on whenever he wanted to. He wouldve agreed a standard  monthly  
repayment regardless of how much was outstanding on the loan at the time.
Mr P took out PPI at the same time. The policy cost 8.38p per £1 of Mr Ps monthly 
repayment amount  and wouldve covered his loan repayments for up to 12 months if he 
became too ill to work or was made redundant. 
Mr P thinks  HSBC  mis-sold the insurance to him. He says he was not informed of the PPI 
policy and didnt know he had taken it out. He says if he was informed of it at the time he 
wouldve declined it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P didnt agree, so his complaint  has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I am not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr P told us that HSBC  sold PPI to him over the telephone.  And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest his recollection is wrong  on that point.  I cant know what was said to Mr P during 
that conversation. I havent been given  a copy of a call recording  or seen a call script  and 
thats not surprising given  the policy was sold many years ago. To help me decide  what  
happened during the call, Ive looked at what Mr P and HSBC told us about it. Theres no 
paperwork available from Mr Ps sale. But Ive seen a sample copy of documents that HSBC 
used at the time and Ive taken this into account.   
Mr P says he doesnt remember PPI being mentioned at the point of sale.  I accept  that what 
Mr P told us is what he honestly remembers about the sale.  But I also know  its difficult  to 
remember precisely what happened such a long time ago.
I think that what was discussed  with Mr P on the phone more  likely than not reflects  whats 
written in the paperwork. I know I havent  seen the exact forms that Mr P signed.  But I think  
its most  likely that Mr P would  have  completed forms similar to the sample  copies I have 
seen. 
Ref: DRN67651262From that sample application form, I can see that Mr P would  have had to sign and date a 
document that shows PPI as an optional requirement. I think  this suggests  it was Mr Ps 
choice to buy a policy. I think it was clear from the paperwork  that the loan application could 
have gone ahead without taking insurance.  And on balance, its likely that the person selling 
PPI to Mr P would have  similarly made  it clear  that the policy  was optional. 
So I dont  know exactly what happened  at the time. But based on everything Ive seen, I 
think its likely HSBC made  Mr P aware  of the PPI. I also think he agreed to the PPI knowing 
he had a choice  about whether to take it.
I dont know if HSBC  recommended  the PPI to Mr P. But I dont think  I need to make a 
decision about that as it doesnt  make a difference in this complaint. This is because even if 
it did recommend the PPI, it doesnt look to me like it was unsuitable  for Mr P, based  on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr P says he had statutory sick pay to rely on if needed and no other provisions such  as 
savings. So in times where  he was sick, or unemployed, I think the benefits offered by the 
policy would have been useful to him. The policy seemed suitable for his needs. I couldnt  
find anything else within the policys terms and conditions  that would have made it an 
unsuitable recommendation for Mr P like a restrictive or significant term either.  
From what  Ive seen, I cant say for sure if the costs of the PPI policy would have been 
disclosed clearly but for the reasons that I have  already given, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference to Mr P even if HSBC had clearly  disclosed them. 
On balance, I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but I dont think he has been 
mis-sold PPI by HSBC.
In conclusion, I dont  think HSBC has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But 
HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
When the policy was sold,  HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about  
that. Because HSBC didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ref: DRN67651263what the business needs  to do
HSBC UK Bank Plc has to pay back (if it hasnt done so already) to Mr P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should also pay back to Mr P any extra interest  he paid because  of that.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  re-work the flexi loan account and pay back  to Mr P the 
difference between  what  he owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC UK Bank Plc should  also pay 
Mr P 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his flexi loan account at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  by 15 September 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6765126