K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, incorrectly counted a cash  
deposit being made into his account.
background
In March 2018 Mr Ks partner went to a Halifax branch to pay cash into Mr Ks account.  He 
had two bundles  of £1,000 made  up of £50 notes. Before he got to the counter he removed 
four notes and added some spare  notes  and change. He expected  to be paying in £1,822.
The first bundle of £1,000  was verified and credited.  The cashier told Mr Ks partner (who  Ill 
call Mr M) the second bundle only had £300  in £50 notes. Mr M couldnt believe this was 
correct and was told it wouldnt be possible  to verify  what had already been deposited in the 
automated machine. He then gave a further £500 to the cashier and £1,822 was credited to 
Mr Ks account in total.
A call was later made to confirm there was no discrepancy within the automated  machine to 
account for the missing £500. Mr K brought his complaint  to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt the evidence showed only £1,822 had been paid into Mr Ks account. 
She couldnt ask Halifax to do anything further.
Mr K strongly disagreed with this outcome. He felt this questioned the veracity of Mr M. He 
also believed Halifaxs processes were inappropriate if money to be deposited wasnt  able to 
be verified after it was deposited in the automated machine.
Mr K has asked  an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
There is really  only one issue at the heart of this complaint.  Did Mr M deposit £800  made up 
of £50 notes prior to him adding  £500  to the deposit to make  up £1,822?
To make this decision  I have considered the two clear pieces of evidence:   Mr Ks written  
summary of Mr Ms recollection and Halifaxs tally of the money processed within their 
automated machine for the period which includes  the day of the disputed deposit. Im also 
aware of the detail  our investigator  contained in her views of 18 March and 1 May 2020. I 
wont be repeating  everything that was written there but both parties  can be reassured  that 
Ive considered all the evidence  presented to us.
Halifaxs evidence very clearly shows Mr Ks account was credited  with £1,822 as that was 
what was deposited  in branch on 5 March 2018.  The automated machine did not contain an 
extra £500  in £50 notes. There was a small discrepancy but this was for £20 so doesnt  
relate to either the amount or denomination of notes that Mr K is disputing.
Ref: DRN60383582Mr M has on the other hand shown why he would have enough money  to deposit a further 
£500 when he was told only £300  was contained  in the money  hed handed over. I dont  
dispute this.
I cant be absolutely certain what happened here. In cases like this its difficult not to sound 
as if any missing deposit must be the result  of deliberate action and I stress that Im not 
saying that at all. But the automated  machine  wasnt incorrect. Theres been no suggestion  
that the cashier  who has many years  of experience  has done anything  wrong.   
So the only conclusion  I can make on a fair and reasonable basis  which  is what  our rules  
ask us to do  is that Mr M made  a mistake.  This could well have been when he took out the 
four £50 notes  from one of the bundles.  He could have taken out six notes and ended  up 
depositing these  rather than putting  them in his wallet.  
I believe its not fair or reasonable to ask Halifax to refund £500 to Mr K.
I know Mr K has raised his concerns about Halifaxs  processes. He thinks the £300  was 
deposited in the automated machine before Mr M could verify exactly  what  notes hed given 
to the cashier.  The cashier felt shed given  Mr M an opportunity to query this before 
depositing the money. In the end the money  within the automated machine  was checked 
within 24 hours which is what Id expect Halifax to do so I dont think what  happened has had 
an impact on this complaint. I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed  in this outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038358