K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) mishandled  the 
handing back process for a car at the end of a financial agreement  and has unfairly 
charged him an excess mileage fee.
background
In June 2014  Mr C entered into a four year hire purchase agreement for a car with BMWFS. 
When the agreement  came to an end Mr C tried to return the car to the dealership as he 
said he hadnt received any information from BMWFS about how to hand the car back. The 
dealership refused to take the car.
BMWFS then attempted to collect the final balloon payment from Mr Cs bank which led 
to bank charges  being incurred by Mr C.
Mr C then arranged for the car to be collected but on the date this was arranged no one 
attended meaning Mr C was put to inconvenience. He was then charged for the late return 
of the car.
After the car was collected Mr C received an invoice for £3,200 that had been  incurred  for 
excess mileage. Mr C complained to BMWFS that it had mishandled the collection of the 
car and that the excess mileage fee was unfair.  Mr C said he told the salesperson he 
travelled 20,000 miles per year due to his job.
BMWFS partially upheld his claim. It said that it had written twice to Mr C about the 
arrangements for handing the car back in January and May 2018. It said that as Mr C 
hadnt replied  to the letters it was assumed he was keeping the car and so the final 
payment had been taken. It was agreed that the late return  fee would be written  off as a 
gesture of goodwill.
However, BMWFS  said that the agreement had an annual mileage limit of 8,000 and that 
Mr C had signed that agreement together with the customer  acknowledgement form which 
reminded customers to check the mileage limit was correct otherwise an excess fee could 
be charged when  the agreement  ends.
BMWFS also said that had the agreement  been  for 20,000  miles per year then the cost of 
the financial agreement  would have been  higher  as the vehicle would have been subject 
to greater depreciation in value.
Mr C was unhappy at BMWFSs response and complained to this service. He said hed 
had previous agreements with BMWFS and hadnt  been charged excess mileage and that 
the salesperson  knew the mileage he needed. He also said the mishandling of handing  the 
car back meant hed had to pay bank  charges  when  collection  of a direct  debit for the 
balloon payment had been  attempted.
Further, he said hed had to incur extra costs for putting the car through  its MOT and 
having to insure  it for that extra period. Mr C said the failure to collect  it on the day that had 
been arranged  meant hed lost pay and been  inconvenienced.
Ref: DRN60977072Our investigator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint. He said he agreed that Mr C had 
received poor service  in regards to handing  the car back and this had resulted in receiving 
bank charges, having to MOT the car and insure  it for an extra period.
Our investigator said that in terms of the excess mileage fee the annual mileage limit had 
been set at 8,000. He said the agreement before this one had also been set at 8,000 and 
the one before at 12,000. So Mr Cs agreements all appeared to have similar mileage limits 
in the past. Our investigator said that no excess mileage  fees had been paid in the past.
Our investigator also said that if the mileage limit had been greater for this car then the 
monthly premium would have been higher as the value of the car would have depreciated 
faster. He said there was no information  that Mr C had requested  a higher  mileage  limit 
and so he couldnt say the agreement had been  misrepresented to him.
Our investigator said he thought a fair resolution  to Mr Cs complaint would be for BMWFS 
to pay Mr C £150 compensation  and refund any additional charges incurred.
BMWFS agreed that £150  compensation would be fair but said it didnt agree it should  pay 
any additional charges on top of that amount. Mr C disagreed  with our investigators 
opinion as he said the only reason hed been  charged for the excess mileage was 
because, unlike before, he hadnt  taken out another agreement for a new car.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Id seen the hire purchase agreement signed by Mr C. This clearly  stated that the maximum 
annual mileage was 8,000 and set out the charges  that would apply  if that mileage was 
exceeded. There was also a Customer Acknowledgement form signed by Mr C that asked  
him to confirm that the estimated mileage  was correct on the agreement as if this was too 
low an excess  mileage charge might be applied at the end of the agreement. This form also 
said in capital letters that the agreement should not be signed  unless it was suitable for the 
customers needs.
Mr C said that due to the nature of his job and the mileage he had to cover  he wouldnt have 
agreed to such a low limit. He said that he told the salesman about  his normal  annual  
mileage being  20,000.
I didnt know what was said to the salesperson prior to this agreement  being signed but 
Mr C hasnt said that the salesperson told him not to worry about  the mileage or gave any 
indication that the mileage  limit should  be ignored. Id also seen this figure was based  on 
past agreements  that Mr C had had with BMWFS.
I thought it was reasonable to have expected Mr C to have read the agreement  before 
signing it, particularly because the acknowledgment form prompted him to check  the 
mileage. Mr C didnt say he queried  the mileage limit with the salesperson at any time.
I appreciated that in the past Mr C hadnt  been  charged excess mileage fees and it would 
appear that hed exceeded these limits but that wouldve been a business decision for 
BMWFS. I couldnt see that the salesperson  told Mr C he could rely on not being  charged in 
the future.  So I didnt have enough evidence to say that this agreement was mis-sold or 
misrepresented to Mr C. He had an opportunity to query the mileage  limit but hadnt done  
so.
Ref: DRN60977073If the agreement had provided  for a greater mileage  limit then the monthly  costs  would 
have been higher to reflect the greater use of the car and the impact this would have had 
on its value at the end of the agreement. So Mr C had been  paying less than he would 
have had to do had the agreement been for 20,000 miles limit per year.
So, although I appreciated Mr Cs frustration that he now faced the excess  mileage fee 
when it hadnt  been applied before, I couldnt  say BMWFS had acted unreasonably in now 
applying this charge as it was set out in the agreements terms and conditions.
BMWFS had agreed that the collection process  for the car when the agreement ended 
was not as it should have  been. This had caused Mr C inconvenience and hed incurred 
some additional  charges.
However, I disagreed that Mr C should be reimbursed the cost of having the car put 
through its MOT. This was because  the car was original registered  in June 2014 meaning 
that an MOT would  have  been due in June  2018. And it was Mr Cs obligation  under the 
agreement to have  the car serviced  and MOTd when these fell due. So I thought this was 
a cost Mr C would  have  always  incurred.
Id also seen that Mr C had raised  loss of earnings  for his wife who took time off waiting for 
the car to be collected. But as the agreement was between Mr C and BMWFS I didnt 
expect it to recognise inconvenience caused to another member  of Mr Cs family.
However, I agreed  that Mr C had been  caused  inconvenience and distress by the way the 
handing back of the car had been  handled  by BMWFS.  I thought  £150 compensation in 
total was fair to reflect the impact this had had on Mr C.
So for the reasons above I was intending to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint and I was 
asking BMWFS to pay him £150 compensation.
BMWFS agreed  with my provisional  view but Mr C said he disagreed.  He said he was 
unaware if the mileage  limit and thought it would operate  as before. He also said that it was 
unfair that he cover the cost of the MOT as this had only fallen due because of the delay  in 
arranging for the car to be collected.  He said BMWFS had agreed to pay his additional  
expenses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C hasnt been able to provide me with any further evidence regarding  his complaint and 
while I appreciate  he disagrees with my view I havent changed my mind. I dont have 
enough evidence  to say Mr C was misled about  the mileage limit in the agreement or that 
the agreement  was misrepresented to him. 
As set out above, the agreement clearly showed  the mileage limit that applied  and the 
Customer Acknowledgement form had also stressed the need to check this limit and say if it 
wasnt suitable. 
Ref: DRN60977074Im aware that Mr C wasnt  charged  excess mileage with his past agreements  and it would 
appear likely  that hed exceeded the mileage limits  provided in those agreements.  But, I 
cant say from the evidence Ive seen that Mr C was told to ignore the limit in this particular 
agreement or informed that it wouldnt  apply  to him. There was no reassurance  or guarantee 
that the mileage  limit wouldnt be applied this time.
So I still think its reasonable to say Mr C should  have  been aware of the mileage  limit and 
the potential for an excess  charge at the end of the contract when he signed to show he 
agreed to be bound by the agreements terms and conditions. And I cant  reasonably  say 
BMWFS acted unreasonably  in applying the excess mileage  charge at the end of the 
agreement.
Mr C says that BMWFS  had accepted  it mishandled the handing back of the car by agreeing 
to cover the cost of the MOT but that isnt correct.  Although BMWFS has agreed  that 
compensation was due for Mr C for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it didnt 
accept any liability to cover any of the additional costs incurred by Mr C such as the MOT.
Im still satisfied that looking at the chronology of when the car was registered and when the 
MOT should have fallen  due that Mr C would have  been responsible for that cost even if 
there hadnt been a delay in collecting the car. As Ive previously explained maintenance of 
the car which would  include  arranging an MOT was Mr Cs responsibility under the 
agreements terms and conditions. 
So as set out above Im still partially upholding Mr Cs complaint and Im asking BMWFS to 
pay him £150 as compensation  for the way it dealt with the car being handed back at the 
end of the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above  Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint.  Im asking 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  to pay Mr C £150 for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by the manner  in which  handing the car back at the end of the agreement was 
handled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6097707