K820x#14Complaint
Mr B and Mrs H say they were mis-sold a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
The PPI was sold by a predecessor of Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, so Halifax  
has taken responsibility  for the sale. 
Background
In 1993, Halifax  sold Mr B and Mrs H a monthly premium PPI policy  to protect  their joint 
mortgage repayments if either of them was unable to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. Its unclear how the policy came to be added.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr B and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from 1993,  which  isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached  my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence which includes a document from that year headed Summary  of Cover . While 
theres nothing to conclusively show Mr B and Mrs H were  told the PPI was optional or that 
they agreed to it, theres nothing to show that didnt happen either.  So I cant  fairly  say that 
Halifax did anything wrong here.
I realise Mr B and Mrs H will be unhappy with that finding. And I appreciate it appears to 
them that were  taking Halifaxs side but, as Ive explained, I think  its understandable that 
there are gaps in whats still available in this case.  Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt  be 
fair to uphold the complaint on these  grounds.
Halifax has considered  the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr B and Mrs H. 
That meant, among  other things, Halifax needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right 
for them. Regardless of what steps  it took,  I think the PPI it recommended was right for them 
in any case. 
For example, from what I know about  the scope of the policy and from what Mr B and Mrs H 
have told us about their circumstances, it seems they were  eligible for the cover.  And I cant  
see that Mr B and Mrs H were affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or 
limited cover  or that theyd have found  the monthly premium unaffordable  either.
It seems  as though Mr B and Mrs H might have been entitled to enhanced sick pay and 
redundancy pay from their respective employers. I gather they also had some savings to 
help them meet their mortgage repayments if they werent working  although its unclear 
how much  they had. Nevertheless,  the PPI benefits were considerable and potentially  paid 
out (on top of any existing work  benefits or savings) for up to 12 months for each successful 
Ref: DRN64723322claim. While Mr B and Mrs H say they had an endowment policy, that would have paid a 
lump sum on their death whereas the PPI provided a monthly benefit for disability  or 
unemployment. So Im satisfied they covered different things.
Taking into account that Mr B and Mrs H had entered into a long-term  financial commitment  
that was secured against their home, I think its likely theyd have valued the additional 
protection the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Mr B and Mrs H enough information about the PPI to allow  them 
to decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information  it 
gave them could  have  been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think  
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed 
their decision  to take it. I think theyd still have  thought it provided  a useful benefit at an 
affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr B and Mrs H have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold the PPI.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6472332