K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that hes been charged  interest on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) purchase  
he made with a store card provided by Home Retail Group Card Services  Limited (Home 
Retail), trading as Argos. He says the card has been mis-sold to him.
 
background
Mr A signed  up for a credit card which was provided by Home  Retail  in May 2018. In June 
2018 he made a BNPL purchase, the terms of which meant he wouldnt have to pay 
anything for six months. 
In December 2018 Mr A was abroad when the BNPL term ended. And as he hadnt  paid for 
the goods Home  Retail applied  the deferred  interest on the transaction  of £27.82. Mr A 
disputed this charge  with them. He said it shouldve been automatically  debited from him and 
credited to his credit  card account.  So he paid the original balance  but didnt pay the 
deferred interest. And as this interest wasnt paid its subsequently  attracted interest  of its 
own.
Home Retail  said Mr A had signed  the contract to say he agreed with the terms and 
conditions of the account. One of those  terms was that interest that was deferred for the 
period of the BNPL would  be added when it finished.  They  said that theyd reminded Mr A of 
the date upon which his BNPL  was to finish in every statement  he received. And in 
November 2018  they said the statement they provided included  details of how much  interest  
would be added to the account if the transaction balance wasnt  paid. They explained that 
whilst Mr As bank  details  wouldve been taken when he applied  for the card,  there was no 
facility to set up a direct debit to automatically pay the balance before  the end of the BNPL 
period. So they thought the interest  charge had been correctly made.
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. She 
checked the terms and conditions of the account  and noted that they explained that interest  
would be added at the end of the BNPL period if the balance  hadnt been paid in full. She 
couldnt find any evidence  that a direct  debit had been established and couldnt therefore 
say that there was an agreement for Mr As account  to be automatically credited  with the 
balance before the end of the BNPL period.  She went on to review the statements Mr A had 
been provided with and thought these clearly  set out the date at which  the BNPL would end 
and also, in the November statement, explained  what the deferred interest  charge  would  be. 
She thought  the additional interest  that had been  charged on the overdue amount had 
therefore been fairly calculated as well.
But Mr A was disappointed with the investigators  response. He thought it was clear  the card 
had been mis-sold to him as he insisted that hed been told when he signed  up for the card 
that a direct  debit had been established.  He therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN61110082Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The credit card agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Im not persuaded that the credit card was mis-sold to Mr A and I think the deferred  interest  
charge has been  correctly  applied.
Mr A obviously believes  he was told that a direct  debit  had been  established when  he took 
out the card. But his testimony  hasnt been corroborated  and is disputed  by Home Retail. Im 
not persuaded theres enough evidence to suggest the card was mis-sold to him.
Ive heard from the business that they wouldve asked for Mr As bank details when he 
applied for the account but theyve  explained this wasnt to set up a direct debit and I can 
understand they may have needed  them for other reasons; such  as a credit  or identity 
check. If a direct debit  was established  I wouldve expected to see some documentary  
evidence. But I havent and Im not persuaded theres evidence  that Mr A was told this would  
be the case. So I dont think the card was likely to have been mis-sold.
The key account  features  form that Mr A signed to say he understood, explained that they 
wouldnt charge  interest  if he paid the balance in full by the due date. But they also said that 
if he didnt interest would be charged  from the date of purchase and would be added  to the 
account.
And as Mr A didnt pay by 17 December 2018,  when  the BNPL period  expired, I think Home 
Retail were right to add the deferred  interest to his account.
I can also see that they always reminded Mr A of the date upon  which  the BNPL  would come  
to an end. They did this in each statement and in November 2018 they told him how much 
that interest  would be. So I think Mr A was given  fair notice of their intention and as he didnt 
pay the interest off in January 2019 I think the interest thats been charged subsequently, on 
the outstanding balance  of the account,  has been  fairly levied.
So Im not asking Home  Retail to take any further action.
Ref: DRN61110083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6111008