K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited  declined his claim for stolen  baggage  under his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr B made a claim on his travel insurance  policy, when his baggage was stolen abroad.  He 
explained that they had stopped to eat while driving. His baggage was on the back  seat 
under a cover  the car had tinted windows but no boot. When he came back, the back seat 
had been smashed and the bag had been stolen.
UKI turned down  Mr Bs claim because under the policys  terms and conditions, the baggage 
had been left unattended. Mr B disagreed, so he brought  the complaint to us. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint  he noted that the policys  terms and conditions 
exclude cover for unattended items  but that was unless it had been stolen from your 
locked personal  accommodation, a safe or safety deposit box or motor vehicle. Because  
Mr Bs bag was taken from a locked  car, he didnt think  it mattered even if the baggage was 
unattended . 
UKI disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive reached the same outcome as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive reviewed Mr Bs policy terms and conditions, under Section H Baggage. These  explain 
that UKI will cover you if your baggage is stolen, but it wont  cover any claim for baggage  
that you have left unattended unless  it has been  stolen from your locked personal  
accommodation, a safe or safety deposit box or motor vehicle.
Ive considered the natural and ordinary meaning of these terms. Im persuaded that by 
using the word unless , UKI have introduced exceptions  to their statement that they wont  
cover unattended  items. One of those  is where  baggage has been stolen from a motor 
vehicle or, if I was to UKI the benefit of the doubt,  a locked  motor vehicle. Ive seen no 
evidence that suggests that wasnt the case with Mr Bs baggage, so I dont  think  that UKI 
can turn down the claim based on this exclusion. 
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. 
I require UK Insurance Limited to: 
Consider Mr Bs claim for his stolen baggage, subject to the policy terms and 
conditions including  the policy limit and any applicable excess. For the avoidance  of 
doubt, UKI is not entitled to rely on any exclusion relating to Mr Bs baggage being  
unattended . 
Ref: DRN65631882Should that result in a claim being  paid,  UKI should add interest to this at 8% simple 
per year from the date of loss until the date settlement is paid (less any tax lawfully  
deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6563188