K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss Z. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss Z disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Miss Z and her representatives have said,  but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Miss Z says she wasnt even aware  that PPI had been added to her account. She says she 
first took the card when in another country and that, when  she moved to the UK, I called 
American Express and asked them to move  my card to the UK which  they did. Miss Z says 
she does not remember doing this online but by phone. However American Express  says a 
new application online  would  have  been  needed, because  of the different currencies 
involved. I would also think it likely  a new credit agreement would be needed because  it 
appears that the UK card would have been  issued  by a different legal entity to that issued in 
the other country,  and with different laws and regulations applying.  
American Express has shown a printout out of the information put into its computer in 2007, 
including agreement to take PPI. It says this is as a result of Miss Z making an online 
application. It has also presented a copy of a letter, sent at the time,  addressed  to Miss Z 
confirming the PPI had been set up. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude the PPI was added without Miss Zs knowledge or 
consent, unless  there  was reasonable supporting  evidence of this. Where someone has said 
another person or organisation  has done  something  wrong, fairness requires that the person  
making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be 
fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a 
long time ago. And there  is some  evidence, although not conclusive by itself, that Miss Z 
applied for the PPI online and that she was notified  it had been  set up. .And it wouldnt be 
surprising if she has not remembered  all this detail, given that this was about  12 years  ago. 
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Miss Zs 
knowledge or consent. 
Ive thought about other possible ways in which  the PPI might  have been mis-sold, but I 
dont think these apply.  This is because:
Ref: DRN66003932I dont think American  Express recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for 
Miss Zs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well American  Express explained the PPI (I 
acknowledge that Miss Z says she was told nothing  and knew  nothing about  the 
PPI.) Its possible  information American Express gave  Miss Z about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been.  But I dont think,  in her circumstances, full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. 
And it doesnt look like shed have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss Z to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6600393