K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about what  Barclays Bank UK Plc did when she asked it to make a 
chargeback for a payment  from her current account.  
background
Miss M told us that she bought a car from a garage.  She understood the car to have recently  
had a number  of checks, and to come with a 6 month warranty and 12 months  of AA cover. 
She said that the car developed a number of faults,  some persistent. And there was never  
any AA cover. Shed taken the car back for repairs, but that didnt solve the problems. She 
took some  advice, and asked the seller to take it back. The seller  collected the car. She also 
asked Barclays to help her get her money back.  
Barclays put a temporary credit into her account. It seems as if Miss M initially thought  that 
this was a refund from the garage. She used the money to buy a new car. She later realised 
it was only a temporary credit from her bank. She said that Barclays  then contacted  her to 
say that her chargeback request had been  unsuccessful, and it had taken this money back.  
She said that left her in financial hardship,  which affected her health.
Miss M later told us that Barclays had paid all the money  that she was trying to get back 
from the garage to her. But Miss M said that she was very unhappy about how Barclays  had 
managed this process, and she still wanted  to complain.
Barclays said that it didnt  think it had done  anything  wrong.  It said that it had raised  a 
chargeback for Miss M, but that had failed because the garage had said that there was no 
evidence the car had been returned for a refund, and no proof  that a refund had been 
refused. Barclays said that it cant guarantee that a chargeback will be upheld.  It didnt have  
proof that the car had been returned, or that it was faulty. 
Barclays said that it had since spoken  to Miss M, and obtained some information  that it didnt 
have at the time when the chargeback failed. It said that Miss M had then provided a report  
showing faults with the car, a picture of it being towed, and emails trying to confirm that the 
garage had received the car back. In the light of this, it had decided to pay Miss M back the 
£1,120 that she was trying to get back from the garage. It said that it had done  this as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Barclays said that it didnt  think it should  have to pay Miss M any further compensation. It 
thought that it had followed  all the right processes, and just wasnt able to get the money 
back from the garage. It said that at that stage it didnt need any further  evidence  from the 
customer so thats why it hadnt  sent her forms to fill out. And it said that it had given her the 
money back, so she wasnt out of pocket.
Our investigator asked  Barclays why, if it thought  that it hadnt made  any mistakes,  it had 
then paid Miss M back all of the money she was trying to get back from the garage. The 
reply from Barclays  is a little hard to follow, but it appears to suggest  again that there  was no 
proof that the garage had refused to accept the vehicle being  returned.  It said it would 
usually need proof  of the fault,  and of goods being  returned. 
Barclays said that there was nothing more it couldve  done as part of a chargeback  request, 
but it had taken Miss Ms further evidence into account itself, as that was the only option left 
to it. 
Ref: DRN69967642Barclays also said that the additional evidence  that was provided  was not the strongest and 
would most  probably  not have been accepted  as enough due to the lack of information and 
authority from the AA evidenced on the letters/emails. So it said that it had made  a 
discretionary payment  to Miss M because she would probably not be able to get these funds 
from the merchant.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that there was no evidence that Miss M had 
been given an opportunity, after her initial call, to provide  her evidence. She said that 
Barclays shouldve given  Miss M an opportunity to provide this. So she said that she thought 
that Barclays should pay Miss M £100, to make  up for the distress and inconvenience  this 
has caused her.
Miss M said that she was willing to accept this payment and close  her complaint. But 
Barclays said it wouldnt pay. It said that it didnt think it should  have to pay more  
compensation, and it wanted an ombudsman to consider  this case. So the case was passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Barclays has said that some relevant evidence from Miss M wasnt  taken into account as 
part of the chargeback process. Its internal notes say that it thinks that if this evidence had 
been taken into account, then Miss Ms chargeback wouldve been likely  to be successful. 
Barclays has since written to our service, and said that it doesnt think that this chargeback 
wouldve succeeded after all.
Ive seen this additional  evidence, and I agree  with Barclayss initial  assessment that this 
chargeback wouldve been more likely than not to succeed if all of Miss Ms evidence had 
been considered.  Barclays  has told us that its no longer able to ask the garage  to pay this 
back. So Im glad to see that Miss Ms money has been returned by Barclays.
Barclays has also said that it doesnt think its done anything wrong. But I dont think  thats 
very likely to be right. It seems to have closed  this case after the pre-arbitration stage, 
because the garage said that there  was no evidence that Miss M had returned the car, or 
that it had refused to pay a refund. It seems as if Miss M had evidence  which  was directly  
relevant to both those  points, but Barclays hasnt  been able to show our service that it had 
asked her for it. Barclays closed the chargeback case, and took back  the temporary  credit  
that it had given Miss M.
I dont think its likely  that Barclays has managed this chargeback request entirely properly. 
Miss M told us about the impact this issue had on her finances,  and on her health,  when 
Barclays took that temporary  credit back. I can also hear,  on the call where Barclays  told 
Miss M that it would pay the money back to her, that Miss M was very concerned  to find that 
the outcome of this case would mean that the garage which she was in dispute with could 
keep both the car that she had bought, and the money that shed paid for it. 
Ref: DRN69967643I think that the mistakes  Barclays has made have caused Miss M some distress.  And I agree 
with our investigator that Barclays should  pay a further £100 in compensation to Miss M for 
that distress, in addition to the refund of the disputed transaction  which it has made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc must  pay Miss M £100 in compensation, in 
addition to the refund of the disputed transaction that it has already made. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6996764