K820x#14complaint
In 1993, Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
At the same time, they also bought  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  They  
believe that Nationwide mis-sold this policy  to them and want it to refund them all the 
premiums they paid for it, plus interest.  
background 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
Nationwide had mis-sold the policy  to Mr and Mrs B and didnt recommend that it should 
uphold their complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  and asked  for an ombudsman  to review their 
case, so it has come  to me to make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  what to do about Mr and Mrs Bs case. Ive 
considered everything  that Mr and Mrs B and Nationwide  have sent us or told us and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B have  argued strongly that Nationwide did not give them a choice to have their 
mortgage without  PPI. They have told us that:
When  (they) applied  for (their) mortgage. (they) were told that (they) had to take out 
a PPI policy and that it was compulsory in order for (them) to get (their)  mortgage 
offer. 
Theyve said that Nationwide mis-sold PPI to them because it told them  beyond  doubt  that 
only by taking the policy would they qualify for the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B took out a fixed  rate-mortgage.  To qualify for that particular mortgage, 
Nationwide insisted that customers took out its PPI policy. Nationwide  was allowed to do this 
and it seems to have been  quite open about its position both in discussion with Mr and Mrs B 
and in writing. At that time, Nationwide called its PPI policy Mortgage Payment Cover and I 
have seen a copy  of a letter it sent to Mr and Mrs B which said: 
 .As a condition of the fixed  rates, Mortgage Payment Cover arranged  by 
(Nationwide), must be maintained for at least the fixed  rate period. 
. 
So I accept  that Nationwide  told Mr and Mrs B that PPI was compulsory for the mortgage it 
sold them.  But this was correct at the time and doesnt mean that it mis-sold the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B and Nationwide  have agreed that Mr and Mrs B applied for the mortgage 
during a meeting at one of Nationwides branches. Mr and Mrs B have told us that 
Nationwide did not make it clear  that other mortgages may not have needed  a PPI policy 
and that it pressured them into taking PPI (with the fixed  rate mortgage) when they may not 
have needed to buy it. 
Ref: DRN66960792Obviously, I dont know what Nationwide  did or didnt say to Mr and Mrs B during the 
meeting; but the letter I referred to earlier mentioned  other types of mortgage and how 
customers could be switched to them if they cancelled PPI during the fixed  rate period. I 
dont have enough evidence to be convinced that Nationwide applied  undue pressure to Mr 
and Mrs B. I think  they could have  applied for other mortgages with Nationwide  or 
elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that Nationwide  recommended the policy  to them, but only to 
insist (they) had to take out the policy and gave them no other advice about it. Similarly, 
Nationwide has said that it didnt recommend PPI or advise  them  about it. This meant  that 
Nationwide didnt need to check the policy itself was right for Mr and Mrs B, but it did have  to 
tell them  about  it fairly and clearly,  so they could decide if they wanted to go ahead with it 
alongside the fixed rate mortgage. 
I dont know what Nationwide told Mr and Mrs B about the policy during the meeting and I 
cant be certain what policy leaflets  or other information, if any, it gave  them about PPI. They  
have told us that it didnt give them any information about  the policys cost, benefit or 
terms. I accept  that Nationwide may not have explained things properly. So Ive looked into 
the policy to see if it had any features which would have stopped Mr and Mrs B buying it if 
Nationwide had explained  things as it should  have done. 
Although Mr and Mrs B took the mortgage  jointly, the policy  only covered Mr B, who was the 
main wage earner  at the time. From  what Mr and Mrs B have told us about their 
circumstances, Mr B was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations. 
Mr and Mrs B were  taking on a significant  financial commitment which was secured against 
their home. Not keeping  up with their mortgage  repayments could  have been  very serious for 
them. Apart from Mr Bs income, they seem to have had few other resources, such  as 
savings, available  to them.  So I think they may have thought the cover  to have been 
potentially useful for them. Indeed, I understand that they made a claim on the policy when 
Mr B was made  redundant. 
Mr and Mrs B seem  to have been able to afford the premiums alongside their fixed rate 
mortgage and I dont think better information  about PPI would have put them  off taking  the 
cover. 
I dont think that Nationwide mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs B. But Nationwide has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium), so it should have  told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN66960793my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6696079