K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).
background
In 2010, during a meeting  at a Halifax branch, Miss G took out TMPP cover alongside a 
mortgage to protect  her repayments in the event of disability and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Miss G disagrees  with our 
adjudicators view. Miss G mainly  says that she wasnt aware that she had PPI and she 
didnt need it as she had other means  to rely on if she couldnt work. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint. Heres  why I say this.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss G to recall in detail what  was said in 2010.  So what 
Miss G says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look 
at all the available information and take into account  the wider circumstances. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Miss G arranged to sign up to the TMPP. But 
this service has seen examples of various  forms Halifax used to sell the TMPP to customers  
who took out PPI in a Halifax branch around the time Miss G did. We think the TMPP 
paperwork wouldve made it clear  to customers that it was up to them to choose if they 
wanted PPI as part of a TMPP. 
Ive also seen some of the mortgage  paperwork,  including the mortgage offer that Halifax  
sent Miss G. This clearly says that she didn't  have  to take out any PPI with her mortgage. 
But it looks  as if Miss G must have decided  she wanted PPI because Halifax  then sent her 
paperwork (the welcome pack) in April 2010.  This clearly shows that Miss G had taken out 
cover to protect her mortgage repayments along  with critical illness  cover. 
The welcome pack included a page headed:  Important Information which made  it clear  
that the cover was optional. 
Her mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time.  
Miss Gs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, 
I can see why she mightve  felt PPI was useful. 
Its completely understandable if Miss G has forgotten  this now. But, taking into account  all 
this information,  I think  its likely  that Miss G wouldve known at the time that PPI was 
optional. And it was added to her mortgage when  she chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN62681132Halifax advised Miss G to take out the PPI and it looks like it was suitable  for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances when the policy was sold.  
Miss G was eligible for the cover. She had some  sick pay entitlement through work. But this 
doesnt mean PPI wasnt suitable for her. The policy wouldve paid out for longer than she 
couldve depended on getting sick pay through work  - up to 12 months each time Miss G 
claimed successfully. And she couldve made repeated claims. So PPI provided long term 
protection for her mortgage. PPI wouldve protected Miss G if she was disabled or too sick to 
work and paid out on top of any work benefits.  Bearing in mind that Miss G mightve also had 
some additional  costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled,  I think  this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. And the policy  wouldve also protected Miss 
G if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Miss G was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got giving her some  additional  
financial security if shed  lost her job. And relying on someone else to help out in the event of 
money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Miss G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Miss G was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think more information  about policy  exclusions and limitations 
wouldve made any difference  to Miss Gs decision to take out PPI. 
The PPI cost and benefits were set out in the welcome pack Halifax  sent Miss G  so she 
knew what she would be paying for the cover shed chosen. Miss G chose to take out the 
PPI when she didnt  have to and set up payment arrangements at her bank  so it appears 
to me that she was happy to pay the monthly  premium to have PPI at the time. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Miss G wouldve found the PPI cost difficult  to afford when she took it 
out  especially bearing in mind  that she also bought some  other insurance offered under 
the TMPP at the same  time. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Miss G still wouldve decided to buy PPI if shed been better informed as it gave her 
useful and worthwhile  protection in her particular  situation. I dont think having  better  
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6268113