K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the settlement offered by Zenith Insurance  plc (Zenith)
following a claim under their Buildings insurance  policy.
background
In March 2018 a pipe burst and damage was caused to Mr and Mrs Ps property. The claim
was declined by Zenith  as they said the property was unoccupied  at the time of the loss.
Mr and Mrs P complained to this service about  Zeniths decision. One of my ombudsmen
colleagues looked at things and told Zenith  what he thought, that it wasnt fair for them  to
decline the claim based on unoccupancy.  Zenith  agreed to consider the claim and pay a total
of £300 compensation.
Following this, Zenith made a settlement offer to Mr and Mrs P. However Mr and Mrs P were
unhappy with the following:
That only 50% of the VAT was being  paid upfront
The settlement offered for repairs
The electricity costs
That Zenith wouldnt pay for alternative accommodation or loss of rent
So Mr and Mrs P brought a new complaint  to our service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt  uphold  the complaint. She said that it
wasnt unreasonable for the VAT not to be paid in full upfront. She also said that all quotes
covered the same works,  and there  wasnt anything to show they couldnt  be carried out for
the amount Zenith offered, so the settlement wasnt  unreasonable.
She also said Zenith had fairly settled the electricity costs, but also said (as Zenith  had), if
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree, they could provide further readings for Zenith to consider. She
also said that Mr and Mrs P were already occupying another  property they owned when the
escape of water happened  so they didnt need  alternative accommodation, and there wasnt
a loss of rent, so she didnt recommend anything further.
Mr and Mrs P accepted what our investigator said for three  of the complaint  points.  But they
didnt agree with her view of the alternative accommodation and loss of rent and asked for a
final decision  from an ombudsman.
I provisionally reached the same outcome as our investigator, but for some additional 
reasons. So I decided to issue a provisional  decision before I made  my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking, before I make my final decision  which is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word  on the case.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64558292Mr and Mrs P accept  all of our investigators  findings, except  for the alternative  
accommodation and loss of rent element. But Ill consider all four complaint points 
separately below.
VAT
When Zenith offered  the settlement amount of £80,559.11, it included 50% of the 
VAT cost totalling £7,284. Zenith said the remaining 50% would be paid upon  
submission of VAT invoices.
Ordinarily when settling  a claim, Id expect an insurer to pay VAT upon receipt of an 
invoice, demonstrating  the VAT costs incurred, if applicable.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs P wanted all of the VAT upfront, I dont think  Zenith 
acted unfairly by only paying half in advance.  Zenith said that they would pay the 
remainder on submission  of VAT invoices,  and I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Settlement for repairs
Mr and Mrs P have  said that Zenith paid the lowest of the repair costs tendered for, 
and have questioned whether thats fair. Our investigator was satisfied it was. 
Mr and Mrs P accepted that, but Ill comment on this below.
Zenith sent out a scope of works to tender, this included a breakdown  of the works 
required. Zenith were  given three  different estimates  for repair  and they offered a 
cash settlement in line with the lowest of the three.
There will generally be differences in costs  for carrying out works, and this can often 
be based on how much  the individual contractors  wants to charge. But if one 
company is willing to do repair works for less, that doesnt necessarily mean  its not 
enough.
The lowest  was £72,840. Having looked  at the breakdown of this, there isnt anything 
to show that the works couldnt be completed  for the amount  quoted  for.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P are yet to have the works  fully completed,  but they also 
havent provided anything to show why the amount offered isnt enough. Rather they 
just wanted to see if offering the lower  of the quotes is reasonable.
As there isnt anything  to show why this amount isnt enough, or that the works 
couldnt be completed for this cost, based on all the information Ive been provided,  I 
dont think that Zenith  offering this amount for the settlement is unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
However, I do appreciate  Mr and Mrs P havent  yet had the works  finalised, so they 
may have  reason to dispute the settlement amount further down the line. If this 
happens, then Mr and Mrs P would need to approach Zenith in the first instance.
But based  on the information  provided,  Im unable to conclude  Zenith  offering the 
lowest of the three quotes is unreasonable.
Ref: DRN64558293Electricity costs
Zenith has provided evidence of how it calculated electricity costs  for the dryers, 
totalling £935.11. And based on this, Im unable to conclude this amount is unfair or 
not enough.
But Zenith also said that if Mr and Mrs P can show further costs were  incurred, then 
they will consider these. I dont think thats  unreasonable in the circumstances.
Alternative accommodation and loss of rent
Mr and Mrs P say that Zenith should  pay them around £3,000  per month  for 
alternative accommodation and loss of rent.
Zenith said they werent prepared to cover alternative accommodation or loss of rent. 
This is because they say Mr and Mrs P were already living at another  property they 
owned when the damage occurred. So they say Mr and Mrs P didnt have to move 
elsewhere due to the escape of water, and consequently  havent  incurred additional  
costs associated with living  elsewhere because of the damage.  And they havent  
incurred a loss of rent either,  because  the insured property wasnt rented out.
Mr and Mrs P say that they would have rented out the other property they were living 
in, if it wasnt for the damage at the insured property. They say this meant they had to 
stay at the other property for longer  than anticipated. So they say they have suffered 
a financial loss of £3,000  per month  for the claim period, as they couldnt move back  
to the insured property, or subsequently  rent out the other property they were living 
in.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this part of the complaint. She reached the same  view 
as Zenith, that as Mr and Mrs P were already living elsewhere, the damage  hadnt 
caused them  a financial loss.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Whilst Im also not minded to say Zenith should 
pay £3,000 per month, there are some additional  reasons  why Im minded to 
conclude this. So, I wanted to give both parties the opportunity  to comment,  before  I 
reach my final decision.
Mr and Mrs P had Buildings only cover. The policy terms  say:
This section of the insurance also covers
C) loss of rent due to you which you are unable to recover
- additional  costs of alternative accommodation,  substantially the same  as your 
existing accommodation,  which  you have to pay for while the buildings cannot  be 
lived in following loss or damage which  is covered under  section one
So the policy  does  cover loss of rent and alternative  accommodation (with limits and
exclusions) in specific circumstances.  And Ill consider  first whether either of these
circumstances apply.
Ref: DRN64558294The first part of the term says Zenith will pay for rent which is due to you. However,  
the insured property wasnt being  rented out prior to the loss, so there wasnt any 
rent due from it. And there was never  an intention to rent it out, so there isnt a 
potential future loss of rent here either.  So I dont  think that part of the cover relating  
to the insured property would apply.
And the second  part says, additional  costs of alternative accommodation, which you 
have to pay, while the building  cannot be lived in. But there wasnt  any additional  cost 
as a result  of the insured  property being  damaged, as Mr and Mrs P were already 
residing at the other property before the escape  of water happened. So they didnt 
incur an additional  cost because of the damage  to the insured property.
So looking  at the policy terms, which relate  to the insured property, this wouldnt be 
covered as no rent was due, and there  wasnt an incurred cost for living  elsewhere  
because of the loss, as Mr and Mrs P were already living at the other  property they 
owned. So, neither of these would apply to the situation Mr and Mrs P are in.
But what  Mr and Mrs P are saying they have  lost out on is potential loss of rent from 
another property  which wasnt  insured by Zenith,  because they couldnt move out of it 
and back into the insured  property because of the loss. But this isnt strictly covered 
by the policy  terms,  as this covers  the insured property, not another  which  was being  
resided in which Mr and Mrs P couldnt  rent out.
Mr and Mrs P say they returned  to the other property from the insured property 
before the loss due to some family circumstances, which  required them to be in a 
larger property. But they say this was intended  to be short term until the family 
circumstances improved,  were it not for the damage to the insured property.
But I also need to keep in mind that Mr and Mrs P were trying to sell the other 
property before they moved into it. They have said in correspondence  to this service  
that they reduced the price considerably and still hadnt had any offers  due to the 
property market. They say they took it back off the market  for some time. And theyve 
since re-listed it but received no offers. So the intention  for the other  property was 
always to sell it.
Mr and Mrs P have  also said they would have rented it out. But Mr and Mrs P have 
also said they intended to sell it because they could no longer afford  to keep the 
property. So on balance,  whilst it may have been an option to rent the property out, 
based on all the information available, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs P were  likely to 
have rented it out if the damage  hadnt happened as they always  intended to sell it, 
but for not receiving any offers.
And as Ive said, the policy  terms provide  cover  for loss of rent due, or additional 
costs incurred because  of damage  to the insured property. But neither of these would 
apply in these  circumstances, because the loss is a hypothetical potential loss of 
rent, to another  property  which Zenith didnt insure. So Im not minded to say Zenith 
should pay Mr and Mrs P a hypothetical  loss of rent to another property which they 
always intended to sell, but for receiving no offers.
On that basis, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or direct Zenith to do anything further.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Ref: DRN64558295Zenith responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing  further  to add.
Mr and Mrs P responded. They didnt  comment on the VAT,  settlement for repairs  or 
electricity costs. But they did respond  in relation to the alternative  accommodation and loss 
of rent part.
Mr and Mrs P say they initially focussed on the claim when this was declined  by Zenith and 
bringing that complaint to our service, rather than alternative accommodation.  They say that 
if Zenith had offered it to them, they would  have moved out of the property  they owned  which 
they were staying in, and rented it out, and lived elsewhere at the cost of the insurer  whilst 
receiving a rental income too. They said theyve now secured a sale of the property, which  
shows they couldnt before as they were staying in it, along  with a relatives items, which 
impacted on the ability to sell.
Mr and Mrs P also forwarded a number of emails between them and Zenith (and its 
appointed representatives)  and previous emails sent to this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  about  the conclusions  I 
came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  provide any comment in response to my provisional decision on the 
VAT, settlement for repairs and electricity  costs. As nothing has been provided which would 
lead me to depart from my previous conclusions, these remain  the same as outlined in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs P have  provided a response in relation to the loss of rent and alternative 
accommodation. Theyve also referred  to the early  stages of the claim, and the claim being 
declined.
But the claim originally  being declined was looked  at by one of my ombudsmen  colleagues,  
and he told Zenith to deal with the claim and pay compensation. So this isnt something Im 
going to consider again here.
Mr and Mrs P say that if theyd known  they could have claimed  for alternative 
accommodation, they would have moved out of the other property  they own which  they were 
already staying in before  the claim happened  straight away. They  say they then could have 
rented it out and received  rental income whilst  also having separate  accommodation  paid for 
by Zenith.
But as I outlined in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs P didnt move  out of the insured 
property because of the claim, rather they had already moved out before it, so they already  
had accommodation  when the damage  happened and didnt need to find or pay for this 
because of the damage. So they didnt incur an additional cost at that time because  of the 
loss, which  is what the policy  provides  cover  for. And no rental income was due from the 
insured property either as it wasnt rented out before,  and there was never an intention to 
Ref: DRN64558296rent it out, so they havent lost out on rent to the insured property either, again which  is what  
the policy covers. 
So what  Mr and Mrs P are claiming  for is potential loss of rent, for another  property they 
owned which they were already living in, which wasnt insured by Zenith.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, the intention for that property was always to sell it as 
Mr and Mrs P could  no longer afford to keep it, rather than rent it out long term. So on 
balance, whilst it may have been an option  to rent it out, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs P 
would have if the damage hadnt happened  as its clear that the intention  was always  to sell 
it.
This is further shown  from the information Mr and Mrs P have provided, they hadnt received 
any offers, and they took it off the market when they needed to reside  in the property due to 
some family circumstances, and put it back on later. Mr and Mrs P have also said they 
dropped the price due to the economic  climate, which further  indicates  they were  looking to 
sell, rather than rent out the property.  So I dont think its been shown they lost out on a 
potential rental income, because on balance, Im not persuaded it would have  been  rented 
out, even if they werent living in it, as they always wanted to sell.
Mr and Mrs P say that the property didnt sell and they didnt receive  any offers  because  they 
were staying in it, along with having  a relatives  items  which  would have put off potential  
buyers. And they say if Zenith had paid for them to live elsewhere then it would have sold 
more quickly. Theyve  now secured an offer on the property, and they say this shows that 
had they not been  residing in it, then it would have sold sooner. 
However I also have to take into account that Mr and Mrs P said to Zenith that between  2018 
and 2019, theyd dropped  the price  by £200,000 and still hadnt received any offers due to 
the climate. And the most recent information  shows the offer theyve now received was a 
further £140,000 less than that amount already reduced.  
So on balance, Im not satisfied that its been shown the lack of offers was solely because 
they remained in the property. And even if Mr and Mrs P had rented out the property (which 
Im not satisfied they would have as they always wanted to sell it and have reduced the price 
to do so), having a tenant already in situ may also have impacted in a purchasers decision 
and the sale of the property.
As outlined  in my provisional decision and above, the policy  terms cover  loss of rent due 
from the insured  property,  which there  wasnt any as it was never  intended to be rented out. 
And they also cover costs  incurred because of damage to the insured property, but 
Mr and Mrs P were  already  living  at another property they owned when the damage 
happened so didnt incur an extra cost at that time because of this. 
So it is a hypothetical  potential loss of rent to another property which Zenith  didnt insure. 
And for the reasons outlined in my provisional  decision  and above,  Im not going  to direct 
Zenith to pay Mr and Mrs P for a hypothetical loss of rent to another  property Mr and Mrs P 
always intended to sell, rather than rent out.
Ref: DRN64558297my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 December  2020.
Callum Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6455829