K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mr B says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr B says he didnt know the PPI 
had been added to his credit card, but he hasnt given us much detail about what  happened 
at the sale. And HSBC  hasnt been able to send us Mr Bs application form for the credit 
card, or any other evidence from the sale. Due to the amount of time that has passed since  
the sale though, I dont  think  this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that HSBC added  the PPI without  Mr Bs knowledge 
or consent. So I think its likely it made  it clear  to him that he had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mr B chose to take it.
Mr B says HSBC recommended the PPI to him. HSBC says it cant  be sure whether it did or 
not. If HSBC  did recommend the PPI, it wouldve had more responsibilities during the sale,  
which would be to Mr Bs benefit.  So, as HSBC  cant be sure,  Ive assessed the complaint as 
if it did recommend the PPI. This means  it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr B.
And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time,  I think  that the PPI was 
right for him. For example, he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions.  And hes told us he 
wouldnt have had any sick pay he couldve used to make his repayments  if he wasnt  
earning.
Mr B said he had savings and that his wife couldve helped with his repayments. But 
peoples financial situations  can change,  so family  member might not be able to help when  
needed. The policy meant Mr B wouldnt have needed to rely on his wife or any savings  he 
had if he wasnt earning.
Mr B also says he was self-employed at the time,  so wouldnt have been able to claim on the 
PPI. But the policy did still cover people who were self-employed, and didnt  make  it 
significantly more difficult for them to claim than for employed people.  So I still think  the PPI 
was right for him.
As well as checking it was right for him, HSBC had to give Mr B clear information  about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave him wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would  have been  useful  for 
Mr B if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN68901222my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890122