K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1990. Mrs K says Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mrs K says she was led to 
believe she wouldnt get the mortgage  if she didnt take the PPI, but she hasnt given us 
much detail about what was said or why she felt this. And Bank of Ireland  hasnt  been  able 
to send us any evidence from the sale to show Mrs K chose to take the PPI. Due to the 
amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont  think  this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Bank  of Ireland made Mrs K think  she had to 
have the PPI to get the mortgage. So I think its likely that Bank of Ireland made it clear to 
her that she had a choice  about the PPI. And that she chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Bank  of Ireland  gave Mrs K any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check if 
it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like she wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she received.  And Mrs K has told us 
she didnt have any savings or other means  she couldve used to make her repayments if 
she wasnt earning. So I think  the policy would have been useful for her if something went  
wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment and Mrs Ks property couldve been at 
risk if she failed to make  her repayments.  So I think she couldve found the protection  the 
policy offered appealing.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mrs K off taking it out.
Which means Bank of Ireland  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Bank of Ireland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because:
Bank of Ireland  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because Bank  of Ireland didnt 
tell Mrs K, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN66359802To put that right, Bank of Ireland  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Ireland  has to pay back to Mrs K any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Ireland should also pay back  to Mrs K any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Bank of Ireland  should pay back to Mrs K the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank of Ireland 
should also pay Mrs K 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs K can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mrs K any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6635980