K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a payment he tried to make  didnt go through because of TSB Bank 
plcs IT problems,  and he received very poor service overall.
background
Mr D found a car he wanted to buy online.  It was advertised for sale at just under US $6,500.  
Mr D arranged to buy it for US $5,000 on the basis of a quick sale. He tried to make  the 
payment online several times but couldnt because TSBs systems werent working. 
This was in late April 2018. Mr D made a number of phone calls to TSB and negotiated more 
time with the seller  to transfer  the money. On 12 May, he visited a branch of TSB to try and 
make the payment that way. He says staff told him the money  would be sent the following 
Monday.
The money left Mr Ds TSB account.  But it didnt get to the sellers account.  Mr D spent time 
phoning and visiting  TSB, and in correspondence with the seller, trying  to find out what  had 
happened. He says TSB couldnt  tell him anything. The money  less £183.35 because of 
movements in the foreign exchange rate  arrived back in his TSB account on 7 June. The 
car Mr D wanted was later sold to someone else.
Mr D heard nothing from TSB in response to his complaints, so he got in touch with us. Our 
investigator recommended that TSB pay Mr D £262 to reflect the financial loss hed suffered 
(including the exchange rate loss and other  costs  of the payment, as well as the costs  of Mr 
Ds phone  calls), plus £500 by way of compensation.  But he found the payment hadnt gone 
through because  the name  of the beneficiary  on the payment instruction was wrong, and not 
because of TSBs IT problems. 
Mr D pointed out that TSB hadnt been able to say what had happened  to his payment until 
almost a month after it had been made.  He considered the compensation the investigator 
proposed fell a long way short of reflecting the stress hed been  caused, the lack of contact 
from TSB and the loss of a highly collectible car.
TSB said the payment hadnt gone through because of the wrong details on the payment 
instruction. It nevertheless  agreed to pay compensation in line with the investigators 
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise Mr D will 
be disappointed, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator  did about how this 
complaint should  fairly be put right.
Its clear that Mr D was affected  by TSBs  IT problems  last year.  He was initially  unable to 
make a payment  online, had to make  a number of phone  calls and visits to a branch, and 
had difficulty in finding out what had happened  to his payment.
Mr D holds TSB responsible for his having lost out on a purchase which he was very keen to 
make. It was a very good deal, and he has explained that he had been  looking for a 
purchase like this one for a long time.  I can see that he has been caused  a good deal of 
Ref: DRN65611022disappointment and frustration, and I think TSBs repeated failures to get back  to him when it 
said it would  exacerbated that. 
However, as the investigator explained, TSB has provided a copy of a message it received  
from the intermediary bank involved in sending the money abroad,  setting out why the 
payment didnt go through. That says this was because the name  and account  details  on the 
payment instruction didnt match. I note that the seller also confirmed in an e-mail to Mr D 
that the recipient name wasnt right.
All of this leads me to conclude  that the payment  couldnt be completed because  the details 
of the beneficiary  werent quite right. And, having  seen a copy  of the e-mail Mr D gave the 
branch in order to make  the payment, I dont think the disparity  was down to a mistake  by 
TSB. But I do consider  TSBs system problems caused an initial delay in the payment being 
made and in the matter not then being sorted out more quickly.
Mr D has provided copies  of his e-mail correspondence with the seller. It wasnt  until 3 July 
that the seller  told him the car had just been sold to someone else.  Mr D had received most 
of his money back almost  a month  earlier. So  while  he may not have been able to try to 
make the payment again through TSB due to its IT problems  I think  there was time for him 
to have made other arrangements. The seller  had told him he would honour the price they 
had agreed if Mr D could  sort out the payment.
In all the circumstances, I dont find it would be fair to require TSB to compensate Mr D for 
the loss he considers he has made  because he didnt get the car. I do find he should  fairly 
receive compensation for the impact on him of the poor service  he received. That includes 
the time he had to spend firstly in trying to make  the payment and then in trying to find out 
what had gone  wrong, and the stress, inconvenience and disappointment he was caused.
TSB has agreed to pay Mr D £762.  Im satisfied that this is fair compensation for Mr Ds 
losses and the overall  impact on him of what happened as Ive set out above. So I dont 
require TSB to do or pay any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mr D a total of £762 in settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6561102