K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for transactions  he says he
didnt make. 
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Response to my provisional decision
Mr D disagreed with my provisional  decision and provided further comments.  
He said there wasnt a balance inquiry  at 6pm. He asked how this was possible when 
he was ordering a drink  at 6.02pm.
The bar was higher  than an ATM. The card terminal was at chest  height.  He said he 
had to raise his hands to put the card in the card machine and cover it with one hand  
to reduce the visibility.  He said someone  standing behind him could have shoulder-
surfed him because  his body  could not shield the keypad as it would at an ATM. He 
believes this is how someone got hold of his PIN.
He asked why he would compromise his claim by using the card near to home.
He said theres no benefit  to him of making a false claim. The disputed transactions 
have left him out of pocket. He had bought  a new car for £70,000  on credit but had to 
return it because he couldnt  keep up with the payments.
He asked why Lloyds didnt block his card.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. It also agreed that I could disclose further 
information about Mr Ds claim, which the investigator referred to in his view. Lloyds has 
evidence, which connects Mr D to another customer who had made  a claim for a refund in 
similar circumstances, six months earlier. In that case, the customer claimed they had lost 
their card in a pub and that someone must  have  seen them using their PIN in the pub.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the evidence again, in light 
of Mr Ds comments, but Im afraid my decision remains the same for broadly the same  
reasons as those  set out in my provisional decision. However, I will address his additional 
points here.
Ive looked again at, the audit trail for the balance inquiries. I can see I made an error.  There  
were three balance inquiries on 31 January 2018  at 7:04pm, 8:50pm and 9:03pm. The first 
balance inquiry  was made in central  London and the later ones were made in a different 
location, closer to Mr Ds home  address.
Ive considered whether these timings alter my view of the complaint. Im afraid  they dont. At 
best, I thought  it was unusual for him to make  a balance inquiry before buying a drink.  
However, the fact remains,  there were no balance inquiries before the first disputed 
Ref: DRN65344042transaction in the Apple  Stores. That hasnt changed. This suggests that the person  making  
the purchases knew there was enough  money in the account to fund them.
The second  balance inquiry was made after a failed ATM cash withdrawal for £500. It was 
followed by a successful  cash withdrawal for £200.  This suggests the person didnt know  the 
ATM limit on the card.  So, its possible someone else was using the card.  And the 
contactless payments  for travel fares support this. However, I cant rule out the possibility 
that Mr D gave his card and PIN to someone  else for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. 
I accept the card terminal was higher than an ATM  keypad. However, Mr D maintains he 
covered his PIN. In fact, he now says he used his hand to cover the PIN to the extent that he 
could just see what he was typing. I think this makes it more  difficult  for another customer to 
shoulder-surf him. However, even if he couldnt adequately shield his PIN in a crowded pub, 
theres still other evidence  that I consider shows it more  likely than not that he authorised  the 
transactions. This is:-
the two-hour  interval  between  the second and third transactions, which is unusual for 
someone who has stolen the card
the last four transactions were made on Mr Ds route home from central  London. I 
thought this was more  than a coincidence, especially when the person  using  the card 
was already in a busy shopping district in central London and had no need to travel  
outside the area.
Mr D didnt change his PIN for two weeks after reporting the loss of his card, even 
though he believes  he was shoulder-surfed. 
Ive considered the link to the other customer who made a successful fraud  claim.  I dont  
think a connection  to another customer, on its own, is enough to prove Mr D authorised  
these transactions.  However, I do take into account the circumstances, which  were  similar. 
Again, I think  its more than a coincidence that Mr D should experience  a similar  incident,  six 
months later.
But more  importantly, when I consider  all the evidence together, I find its more likely  than 
not that Mr D authorised  the transactions, either by making them  himself  or by allowing 
someone to use his card.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold him liable for the 
transactions.
Ive also considered Mr Ds comment that Lloyds should have  blocked  his account. A banks 
primary obligation is to follow  the customers payment instruction and it will rely on the use of 
card and the PIN as evidence of the instruction. And while  banks are on the alert for signs of 
any unusual activity, there is no compelling reason  for a bank to be suspicious of 
transactions in high street stores.
In this case, Mr D admits he received a text message about the transactions. Unfortunately, 
he says he received it after he got home, by which time it was too late to stop them.
If hed responded  earlier  to say it wasnt him, then Lloyds  would  have cancelled  his card and, 
probably, this would have stopped further transactions.  However, ultimately, the question  
remains, did he authorise the transactions?  If he hadnt, then Lloyds would have  refunded 
his loss.
Ref: DRN65344043So while Mr D says Lloyds should  have blocked  his account, this wouldnt necessarily have 
provided him with additional protection, as the bank is obliged to refund unauthorised 
transactions anyway.  He would not be worse  off.
Im sorry  this isnt the outcome Mr D was expecting but I hope  the reasons  for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN65344044Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC wont refund him for transactions he says he
didnt make.
Background
Mr D is disputing  six transactions, totalling £4,924.07, which were made  on 31 January  2018.The 
disputed payments are shown in the table below. I have also included other transactions  to give a 
fuller picture of what was happening at the time.
Date Time Place/location Type of 
transactionAmount
22/1/2018 Credit  proceeds from 
insurance claim£7,440
31/1/2018 17:30 Westminster Parking Keyed transaction  
(card not present 
transaction)£4.98
31/1/2018 18:00 Not Known balance enquiry
31/1/2018 18:02 ONeills Pub
Carnaby Stchip and PIN £4.90
31/1/2018 18:12:07 Apple Store
Regent Street - disputedchip and PIN £1,998.10
31/1/2018 18:38:20 Apple Store  
Covent Garden - 
disputedchip and PIN £1,998
31/1/2018 18:48 TfL Travel Charge contactless -
31/1/2018 20:36:27 Game
White City - disputedchip and PIN £349.99
31/1/2018 20:40:48 Game
White City - disputedchip and PIN £77.98
31/1/2018 20:50:18 White City - disputed ATM  chip and PIN
declined£500
31/1/2018 20:50:45 White City - disputed ATM withdrawal 
chip and PIN£200
31/1/2018 20:51:15 White City - disputed ATM withdrawal 
chip and PIN£300
Ref: DRN653440451/2/2018 01.26 TfL travel charge contactless £2.40
1/2/2018 06.21 TfL Unpaid contactless £2.40
What Mr D told us
Mr D is a private hire driver.
He told us that, after his last driving job on 31 January 2018, he went to the ONeills pub on Carnaby 
Street to relax. He said he bought one drink and paid for it with his Lloyds  debit card. He didnt stay 
long in the pub because it was crowded. He said he drove home  and arrived at about  7pm.
Later that evening, he received a text message from Lloyds asking  if hed made a transaction for 
£500. He responded to the message saying he hadnt. He said he checked his online  account  and 
saw six transactions  he didnt recognise. At this point, he noticed his card was missing. He called 
Lloyds to report  the transactions and his missing card.
Mr D told us that he didnt share his card or PIN with anyone else and he didnt keep a written note of 
his PIN. He said hed covered his PIN when  he entered it into the card machine to pay for his drink. 
And, he returned his card to his back trouser pocket. He thinks his card might have been removed 
from his pocket when he was in the pub. He doesnt know  how a third party would have  known his 
PIN, but he said the bar was quite high and someone might have seen what he typed  from  
underneath.
Mr D asked Lloyds for a refund.
Lloyds response
Lloyds refused to refund  Mr D. It didnt  think this was a fraud.  It believes he authorised the 
transactions. It said:
there was a gap of 2.5 hours  between the second and third transactions. Lloyds  said a 
fraudster wouldnt take a break  of that length and then resume spending in another  location  
not when they were  already in a main shopping district in central  London
there was no balance enquiry before the first disputed transaction, suggesting  the person 
knew how much  money was in the account
Mr D didnt change his PIN after reporting the fraud,  despite being advised to do so
he kept his original PIN for two weeks.
Lloyds subsequently closed  his account.
Investigators view
Mr D didnt agree with Lloyds  decision  and so he asked this service  to investigate.
An investigator upheld his complaint. In summary, he said Mr D couldnt have made  the transactions  
himself as he on his way home or at home when  the transactions were made. He also said Lloyds 
couldnt demonstrate that he consented to the transactions. He recommended that Lloyds  refund the 
disputed transactions.
However, he thought its decision to close his account was fair and reasonable.  He said Lloyds had 
given Mr D two months notice before closing  his account, as required by the terms and conditions.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators view. It didnt  think  it was credible  that someone would have 
removed Mr Ds card from his back pocket without  him noticing. It said he would  have been aware of 
his circumstances  as hed had only had one drink  and wasnt drunk. It also pointed  out that the last 
four transactions were  all carried out in a location  en route  to Mr Ds home address from central  
London.
Ref: DRN65344046This case has now come  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im afraid my review of the evidence  has led me to a 
different conclusion to the one reached by the investigator.
I will explain how I have  reached this decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account:  relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. The relevant  regulations  on 
this matter are the Payment  Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  2017).
Generally, the regulations  say Lloyds  can hold Mr D liable  for the disputed  withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. My task,  therefore, is 
to decide if I think he authorised the payments.
I have seen the banks audit reports for the disputed transactions, and I am satisfied that Mr Ds 
genuine card and PIN were  used to make them. 
But the regulations also say that the chip and PIN are not enough, on their own,  to hold him liable.  So, 
I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more  likely than not that Mr D 
consented to the transactions. And here, I must balance  Mr Ds version of events against the 
evidence from Lloyds in order to reach my decision. I think the simplest way I can do this is by 
considering each piece of evidence in turn.
Card and PIN
As I explained, its not enough for Lloyds  simply  to say that Mr D must  have authorised  the 
transactions because the chip and PIN were used. However, I do need to ask how its
possible for an unknown third party to get hold of the card and PIN.
I think  its plausible that someone would steal  his card from his back  pocket, especially in a
crowded bar, even if he is sober and aware of his circumstances. But a third party  couldnt
use the transactions without the PIN.
Mr D couldnt explain how this could happen. He suggested hed been shoulder surfed in the
pub by someone who later stole his card. In other words, that someone watched him enter
his PIN into the card terminal.  He says this was possible  because  the bar was quite  high
and someone  might have seen it from underneath.
Again, this is plausible, but his description of the bar doesnt match  the website  photos which
Ive seen. The counter is waist high and the card terminals sit on top. There are seats and
tables away from the bar. Looking at the website  photos, I dont think it would  be possible for
someone sitting or underneath the bar to see his PIN. But, in a crowded bar, someone
standing beside him might  see him enter his PIN.
However, Mr D maintains he covered his PIN. If he covered his PIN, as he says he did, then
Im afraid I cant see how a third party would  have seen  it. Based on his own evidence, I am
not convinced someone shoulder surfed him in the bar.
Balance enquiry
The audit trail for the transactions show that there was a balance enquiry at 6pm on 31 January 2018 
 two minutes before  Mr D bought a drink in the pub. It had to be him making the balance enquiry 
because he used the same card two minutes later. This is not unusual of itself, but it is strange that he 
Ref: DRN65344047should check  his balance before buying a drink, especially as he knew he had at least  £7,440 in his 
account following a payment hed received for an insurance claim.
By contrast,  there are no balance enquiries  immediately  before the disputed  transactions. As
Lloyds points out, an unknown third party  wouldnt  know the balance  in the account. This suggests  
that the person making those transactions was familiar  with the account and knew there was enough  
money to fund the payments for expensive goods. 
For this reason, I think its unlikely an unknown  third party made  the transactions.
Timings and location
The first two transactions were made in central  London.  The first was made within ten minutes  of the 
payment in the bar. This is not unusual in a fraud case. An opportunistic thief is likely to act quickly 
and spend as much as possible before  the cardholder notices the missing  card and cancels it.
However, I agree  with Lloyds that the two-hour interval  between the second and third transactions is 
unusual. Of course,  not all fraud  cases follow  the same  pattern but, generally,  theres a higher risk of 
the card being cancelled before spending can take place  if the fraudster  holds  on to it for a long time.
The last four transactions were made at a location which is on Mr Ds route home from central 
London. The location  is approximately 14 minutes from where he was living at the time. I think  its 
more than a coincidence  that a third party should choose  to move away from a main shopping district 
in central London to an area close to Mr Ds home to make the last four transactions.
No change of PIN
I have also taken  into account that Mr D didnt change his PIN for two weeks after reporting  the loss of 
his card. Again,  I agree with Lloyds that this was strange behaviour and not consistent  with someone 
who has been  the victim of theft and fraud.  
Contactless payments
I noticed there were  contactless  payments  to Transport for London. Mr D hasnt challenged those  
payments or transactions. They are negligible compared with the other transactions, so I assume  
thats why he hasnt referred  to them. There is also a payment to a car park at 5:30pm. This confirms  
he was driving  that day so wouldnt be using the tube. I appreciate this supports what he says but I 
cant rule out the possibility that he gave his card and PIN to someone else.
But even if he didnt, I find, on balance, there is sufficient evidence to show that Mr D authorised the 
disputed withdrawals. It follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Closure of account
In general, the bank  has discretion whether to close an account. This is the banks  decision. The 
terms and conditions  for Mr Ds account explain the circumstances when Lloyds may do this. They  list 
specific reasons  when  Lloyds will close an account. But it can also close an account for other 
reasons, provided it gives the customer two months notice in writing.
Ive seen the letter dated 13 February 2018 from Lloyds telling Mr D that it was going to close his 
account. I am satisfied  it gave him two months notice, as required under the terms and conditions.  
Based on this evidence, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it closed his account.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN6534404