K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2005. The policy covered Mr S only. Mr S and Miss B say National Westminster  
Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Miss Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, NatWest had to make it clear to Mr S and Miss B that they had a 
choice about it. But Mr S and Miss B say they werent told the mortgage  included PPI.
NatWest has sent us a copy of Mr S and Miss Bs application form for the mortgage. This 
included a section  on PPI, with options to select accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover, accident and sickness cover only or that they do not require PPI. And the box for 
accident and sickness cover only has been  ticked.
NatWest has also sent us a copy of a combined  PPI application  form and direct  debit 
instruction. This shows the cost of the PPI and has been signed by Mr S. And NatWest has 
sent us a copy of the mortgage  offer letter, which lists PPI under the heading of optional  
insurance.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think NatWest did make it clear  to Mr S and Miss B that they 
had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr S and Miss B chose  to take it, knowing they didnt 
have to.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S and Miss B, so it didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr S and Miss B got the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr S and Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr S and 
Miss B have told us Mr S wouldve received sick pay. And theyve told us they didnt have  
any other means they couldve  used to make their repayments if Mr S wasnt  earning.
Mr S and Miss B have said that Mr S was self-employed  as the director of a company, and 
so it would have  been difficult for him to make an unemployment claim on the PPI. But the 
policy they took out didnt  provide  unemployment  cover, only accident and sickness  cover. 
And I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr Ss employment wouldve made it more difficult 
for him to claim under the accident or sickness benefits.
So, based  on what Ive seen of Mr S and Miss Bs circumstances at the time, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking it 
out.
Ref: DRN64431332Ive also thought about the commission Mr S and Miss B paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr S and Miss Bs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr S and Miss Bs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think NatWest treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Mr S and Miss B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6443133