K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs J say Newcastle Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  because:
Mr and Mrs J applied  for the MPPI around  three years after theyd already taken their 
mortgage. So I think that Mr and Mrs J wouldve known they couldve had a mortgage 
with NBS without taking  the MPPI. As this is the case, I think that NBS made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs J didnt  have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they might not remember this given just how long ago it happened.
NBS may have recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs J so it mightve had to check  that 
the MPPI was right for them. In any event, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time,  I think that it was anyway.  For example, the monthly benefit 
on the policy only covered Mr J who appears to have  been the main wage earner at the 
time. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover and he 
seems to have  had a need  for the cover too.   
Its possible  the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs J about the MPPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the MPPI would 
have put them  off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said - including what  theyve said about not 
being aware that NBS wasnt the underwriter  of the MPPI.  But these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs J paid on their MPPI  and whether NBS 
treated them  unfairly. 
NBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Js MPPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NBS has been  working  this out and based  
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Js commission was less than half the 
cost of the MPPI.  As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  about  the commission 
 so I dont think  NBS treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs J 
back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN60504642Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6050464