K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  because Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has only paid part of a 
claim under their travel insurance policy. They also complain about  the lack of assistance 
given to them by IPA when they were abroad. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
Background
Mr and Mrs T held a travel insurance policy covering themselves and their two children. The
policy was purchased through a price  comparison website.
Unfortunately, Mrs T fell ill while on holiday and needed an emergency operation, which
meant Mr and Mrs T and their children  had to stay abroad for longer than theyd intended.
Mr and Mrs T contacted IPA for assistance  but IPA said, as the hospital wasnt part of its
network, Mr and Mrs T would need to pay the costs themselves and claim them  back from
IPA. IPA said it wouldnt be offering any further assistance with the claim unless new return
flights were needed.  Mr and Mrs T booked new return flights themselves because they found
them at a cheaper price  than IPA could obtain them  for.
After requesting Mrs Ts medical records from her GP, IPA said Mrs T hadnt  told it about her
pre-existing medical conditions so only 51.04% of the claim would  be covered. IPA later
reimbursed Mr and Mrs T for 51.04% of various  expenses including  medical bills, hotel bills
and their return flights. IPA also paid Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation to acknowledge it
hadnt handled their claim  in a pro-active way.
As Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, they brought their complaint  to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but she didnt think IPA had been unfair by
failing to pay 100% of the claim. However, she said she thought IPA should  also pay 51.04%
of Mr and Mrs Ts claim for train and taxi expenses. Our investigator thought the £250
compensation which IPA had paid in recognition of the level of assistance theyd provided
was reasonable  in the circumstances.
Neither IPA nor Mr and Mrs T agreed  with our investigators  opinion,  so the case  was 
passed to me. I made my provisional decision in June 2020. In it, I said:
IPA says Mr and Mrs T incorrectly answered  medical questions  it asked  when they bought
their travel insurance policy. This means  the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think  its fair and
reasonable to apply  these  principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were.
Ref: DRN68261152Mr and Mrs T were  asked  the following question when taking out their policy in March 2019,
which I think is clear  and specific:
Within the last 5 years  has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any
medical condition  (medical  or psychological  disease, sickness, condition,  illness  or
injury) that has required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery,  tests
or investigations?
Mr and Mrs T answered no. But IPA says Mrs T should have told it about ankylosing
spondylitis and urinary tract infections (UTIs) in response to this question.  IPA said if Mrs T
had correctly answered yes to this first question,  shed then have  been  asked a second
question stating;
Has anyone  you wish to insure  on this policy:
A: Ever received  treatment, for:
2. A respiratory condition  (relating to the lungs or breathing) 
IPA says, in response  to this question, Mrs T should  have told it about a chest infection she
suffered from in April 2017.
In deciding whether  I think Mr and Mrs T took reasonable care in answering the first question
they were asked when  buying the policy, Ive reviewed Mrs Ts medical records  and Ive also
considered what  she has told us about  her medical  history.
Firstly, I understand Mrs T wasnt diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis  until after this policy
was taken out. So, at the time the policy was purchased, she couldnt have told IPA about
this condition as she didnt know she had it.
Our investigator mentioned Mrs Ts medical records show a gynaecological referral in the
three months before buying  the policy. Mrs T says this referral was related to her
contraception and her medical records support this. I dont think  Mrs T needed  to tell IPA
about this referral in response to the first question it asked, as the referral seems  to have
been for a general and routine procedure rather than arising from any specific medical
condition.
However, Mrs Ts medical  records show she was prescribed medication for a suspected  UTI
four months before the policy was purchased. Shed also been prescribed medication  for the
same suspected medical condition the month prior to that.
I understand Mrs T says this is a medical condition which affects most ladies and the
infection cleared  up after a course  of antibiotics. While this may well be the case, Mrs T was
prescribed medication for the same medical condition  on two occasions in the six months
before buying  the policy.
An insurer  is entitled to decide upon the level of risk it is willing  to insure.  Under the policy
Mr and Mrs T bought, IPA only wishes to insure policyholders who havent been  prescribed
medication or received treatment for a medical  condition within the previous 5 years.  This is
why IPA asks a clear  and specific question about these issues  before selling a policy.  So,
regardless of how minor  Mrs T considered the UTIs  to be, this was a medical condition
which IPA wanted  to know about.
Ref: DRN68261153So, I dont think Mrs T took reasonable care in answering the first question IPA asked in the
way she did, having regard to the UTIs which shed suffered from.
If Mrs T had answered yes to the first question, as I think  she should have, shed then have
been taken to the second question set out above.
Mrs Ts medical  records show she had a chest  infection for which she was prescribed
medication in the two years before buying  the policy. So, if things had happened as they
should have, I think Mrs T should  also have told IPA about the chest  infection.
There might  well be situations where   depending  on factors  such as the nature of the
specific medical condition,  the number and timing of any doctors visits and the
policyholders overall  medical history  I might  think a consumer has taken reasonable care
in answering questions in a certain  way.
But, based on the circumstances of this case,  I think Mrs T made a qualifying
misrepresentation under CIDRA  when  she failed to tell IPA about the UTIs  and the chest
infection. IPA is therefore entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under CIDRA.
CIDRA says,  in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer  would still have entered
into the contract but would have charged  a higher premium, then the insurer is entitled to
reduce proportionately  the amount to be paid on a claim.
Mr and Mrs T paid £28.86 for their insurance policy. When Mr and Mrs Ts complaint first
came to our service,  IPA provided us with evidence to show  that if Mrs T had told it about
ankylosing spondylitis,  the UTIs  and the chest  infection, it would have charged a premium  of
£56.54. Therefore, IPA said Mr and Mrs T had only paid 51.04% of the premium  they should
have paid, so it would  only be paying  51.04% of their claim.
I told IPA I didnt think it was entitled to take the condition of ankylosing  spondylitis into
account when  calculating what additional premium  it would have charged Mr and Mrs T, and
that it was instead  only entitled to calculate the additional premium  it would have  charged  
based on UTIs and a chest infection. IPA has now provided evidence  to show the premium  it
would have charged if it had been told about these medical conditions is still £56.54.
I anticipate Mr and Mrs T will want an explanation  about how the extra  premium  IPA would
have charged can stay the same when the medical  conditions differ.  Its up to an insurer  to
decide what price  it wishes to charge to cover different levels  of risk, taking  into account
considerations such as business operating costs and potential exposure  to claims.
Often, a variety of different medical  conditions can be given the same risk rating  by an
insurer and sometimes, a combination of different medical conditions may result in the same
premium being charged. Its not for this service  to tell an insurer how much it should  charge
to cover certain medical  conditions, but Id expect IPA to approach these issues fairly and to
treat customers in similar situations in the same way.
Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the total price IPA would have charged
for Mr and Mrs Ts policy  if it had known about  the UTIs and the chest infection was £56.54.
This means,  even without  a declaration of ankylosing spondylitis,  Mr and Mrs T have only
paid 51.04% of the premium they should have,  so IPA doesnt  have to pay any more than
51.04% of their claim.
Ref: DRN68261154Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, as I know  theyve been experiencing financial
difficulties. But I dont  think IPA has acted unreasonably and it wouldnt be fair for me to ask
it to pay any higher percentage of their claim.
However, I agree with our investigator  that I think it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to
also pay Mr and Mrs T 51.04% of the train and taxi expenses  theyve  claimed for.
Mr and Mrs T extended their trip due to Mrs Ts illness  and therefore  didnt  use their
originally booked train fares back to the city they were due to depart to the UK from. Mr and
Mrs T paid for new train fares for their children and a taxi for themselves, as they said Mrs T
wasnt well enough to use public  transport at the time they travelled.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy covers the cost of reasonable  additional transport and accommodation
if its medically necessary  for an insured person to stay abroad  beyond their scheduled return
date. The policy also covers the reasonable additional costs  for one travelling companion.
IPA says any additional travelling costs for Mr and Mrs Ts children are therefore not covered
under the policy.
I dont think this is a fair or reasonable approach for IPA to take in this situation,  where  both
children were minors  travelling with Mr and Mrs T and both children were  also insured under
the policy.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ts taxi fare, their policy says the following isnt covered:
The cost of taxi fares other than for your travel to or from hospital relating to your
admission, discharge  or attendance for outpatient  treatment or appointments or for
collection of medication  prescribed  for you by the hospital.
I understand, under a strict  application of the policy terms and conditions,  Mr and Mrs Ts
claim for the taxi fare isnt covered. But Ive also considered what I think would be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs T needed to get back to the city where their flight  to the UK was departing  from.
Their options were to remain where  they were  until Mrs T recovered sufficiently to take
public transport, where the costs of hotel accommodation were greater or to travel  by taxi at
an earlier point at less expense.
IPA was responsible  for paying for the cost of Mr and Mrs Ts additional accommodation as
well as for Mr and Mrs Ts additional  transport costs  in returning to the city their flight was
departing from (other than by taxi). Im satisfied  Mr and Mrs Ts actions in travelling by taxi
were reasonable in the circumstances and Im also satisfied its likely  this reduced IPAs
financial liability under  the policy. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to pay for
Mr and Mrs Ts costs  in travelling by taxi in the circumstances.
Our investigator recommended that IPA should  add 8% interest  to the additional amounts
due to Mr and Mrs T. I understand Mr and Mrs T paid for many of the costs associated with
this claim on a credit card and some  of this remains outstanding.  However, give the extra
amount Im intending  to recommend for IPA to pay, Im satisfied  interest at 8% is an
appropriate rate in the circumstances.
I understand Mr and Mrs T also made a claim for the cost of food and clothes purchased  for
Ref: DRN68261155Mrs Ts hospital  stay. These  arent expenses which are covered under this policy  nor
would they generally be covered under any travel insurance policy   so I wont be asking IPA
to pay for these costs.
Mr and Mrs T say they have been charged  two excesses for their claim and feel this isnt fair.
However, based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T have only been
charged one excess  of £125.
Turning to how IPA handled Mr and Mrs Ts claim, I requested its contact notes and Ive
reviewed these in some  detail. I think its clear  IPA didnt handle  this claim as it should have
done.
Im pleased to see IPA has acknowledged  its failings  in what  will no doubt  have been an
extremely stressful situation  for both Mr and Mrs T.
I dont think IPA provided Mr and Mrs T with a reasonable  level of assistance  particularly in
arranging accommodation   and I dont think IPA communicated clearly and regularly with
Mr and Mrs T. I also think there were unexplained delays by IPA in requesting Mrs Ts
medical information and, were it not for these delays, it could have made  and communicated
a decision about  the claim to Mr and Mrs T sooner.
Having said that, I think its likely  Mr and Mrs T would  always have to have paid for Mrs Ts
medical costs themselves. The hospital Mrs T was treated in wouldnt accept a guarantee  of
payment from IPA, which is something outside  of IPAs control. Even when  an insurance
claim is fully covered under a policy, it will often be necessary for the policyholder  to pay for
costs themselves and claim  these  back from the insurance company at a later point.
Nonetheless, the impact  of IPAs actions here will, Im sure, have  been  distressing and
inconvenient for Mr and Mrs T and its difficult to put a value on this. I understand Mr and
Mrs T dont  feel the £250 offered by IPA adequately  reflects  the experience they endured.
However, the awards of compensation we make  arent intended to punish a business and,
overall, I think the offer IPA has made is fair in the circumstances.
I understand Mr and Mrs T were  able to find flights at a significantly cheaper  cost than that
quoted by IPA. While IPA may have been prepared to pay 51.04%  of the costs of the more
expensive flights,  these flights werent  ultimately booked and if they had been booked,
Mr and Mrs T would  have  been left with higher  bills. So, while  Ive taken into account what
Mr and Mrs T have  said about this matter, it doesnt  change the decision I intend to make.
So, my provisional decision was that IPA should  reimburse Mr and Mrs T for 51.04% of the 
amount they paid for taxis and train fares together with interest. IPA accepted my provisional  
decision, but Mr and Mrs T didnt. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken all of Mr and Mrs Ts additional  
comments into account, but I wont be changing my decision. 
Insurance policies  are commonly branded  by a different company than the business  which  
provides the cover. But that doesnt mean the policy has been  mis-sold and Im satisfied  the 
medical questions  Mr and Mrs T were asked at the point of sale were clear.  
Ref: DRN68261156I understand Mrs Ts claim may have had nothing  to do with her previous medical conditions  
but an insurers remedies  under CIDRA apply regardless of whether the medical condition 
claimed for is related to the undeclared medical conditions. CIDRA sets out a formula for 
calculating what proportion of a claim an insurer should pay in the event of a careless  
qualifying misrepresentation, taking into account the premium actually paid and the premium 
which should have  been paid. In this case,  this is £28.86/£56.54 x 100. This means  Mr and 
Mrs T paid 51.04%  of the correct premium, so IPA is responsible for paying 51.04% of their 
claim. 
IPA isnt responsible  for paying the remainder of the claim, and that includes any interest 
accrued on Mr and Mrs Ts credit card for the outstanding balance.  The cost of the flights 
which IPA originally offered to book dont change this. This is because the full costs  of the 
claim turned out not to be covered, so its likely IPA would have sought to reclaim some of 
the costs back from Mr and Mrs T if it had gone  ahead and booked those flights. 
The costs  of Mr and Mrs Ts family  member extending  her lease and/or telephone calls 
made by Mr and Mrs T to anyone  other than the insurer  arent  generally  expenses which are 
covered under a travel insurance policy. Experiencing a medical emergency  abroad is very 
unfortunate, but an insurer  is only responsible  for the specific  costs  which  are stated  as 
covered under the policy. 
I understand Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly  about  what happened,  and I agree  IPA didnt 
handle the claim  as I think it should  have. However, Im satisfied the amount of 
compensation IPA has paid is a fair reflection of the impact of its actions on Mr and Mrs T, in 
line with our guidelines.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Inter Partner  Assistance  SA to 
do the following:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs T for 51.04% of the amount they paid for taxis and train fares;
Add interest to the payment at 8% simple per annum from the date these  amounts  
were paid by Mr and Mrs T until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6826115