K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that they were  mis-sold a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  taken out to protect a mortgage  with Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Lloyds  in 1995. Alongside it they took out a PPI 
policy to protect their mortgage repayments.  The policy paid out if either Mr or Mrs S were  
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months  in any one 
claim. They were both covered, so if either of them was out of work  they would be paid 50% 
of £298.75 a month and the PPI cost £11.47 a month.
In 1999 Mr and Mrs S borrowed more and they increased the level of PPI cover. The cover  
was changed  so only Mr S was able to make a claim. The cover was increased to £395 a 
month and the cost increased to £21.10 a month.
Mr and Mrs S said they were told they were more likely to get approved for a mortgage  if 
they took out PPI. They said they didnt need  it as they had good work benefits, so they 
asked if they could take out a life insurance policy instead. But they say Lloyds told them  
they couldnt. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about PPI should be upheld, but 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. So the complaint  was passed to me for a decision.
Having looked  at all of the available  evidence and arguments I issued a provisional decision 
to give Mr and Mrs S the chance to give me anything else theyd like me to think about.  
I considered whether Mr and Mrs S had a fair choice to take out PPI and thought they did.
Mr and Mrs S had said they were told they were more likely to be approved  for the mortgage  
if they took out PPI. As the sale took place so long ago, it was difficult  to know exactly what  
was said. So I had to think about  what was most likely to have happened, based  on the 
evidence available.
Lloyds wasnt able to provide a copy of the mortgage application as it said it no longer had a 
copy. I wasnt surprised  by that as the sale took place  so long ago and there  isnt any 
requirement for a business to keep records forever.  But Mr and Mrs S had been  able to 
provide a copy of the loan agreement they signed.  On it there  was a part titled  special 
conditions, but I couldnt see PPI was mentioned  or that it said Mr and Mrs S needed it to 
get the mortgage. On balance, and because there is so little information,  there wasnt  
enough for me to say it wasnt  made clear PPI was an optional product.
I also thought  about what Mr and Mrs S had said about not being told they could take out a 
life insurance policy.  I thought it was likely  that if theyd asked for such  a policy,  Lloyds would 
have sold one to them (in addition to or instead  of PPI). But as one wasnt  sold, I didnt think  
Mr and Mrs S asked  to take one out. I said this didnt fit with what  they had said, but Id also 
taken into account  that the sale took place over twenty years  ago and memories  can and do 
naturally fade with time.
Ref: DRN67881862Lloyds said that it advised Mr and Mrs S to take out PPI, so it had to make sure the policies 
were suitable for their needs.  I thought the recommendation  was suitable for the following 
reasons:
Mr and Mrs S were  eligible  for the PPI and didnt seem to be affected by any of the 
exclusions in the policies. 
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt think they were eligible for cover  as they werent  able 
to make a claim due to their employee sick pay. But they were eligible irrespective of 
any sick pay and I saw a successful  claim was made under this policy.
Mr and Mrs S said they had some sick pay in place,  Mr S of twelve  months full pay 
and Mrs S of twelve months  full pay followed by six months  of half pay. But they had 
sent in some evidence  showing what their employee sick pay was. I saw Mrs S sick 
pay was six months  of full pay followed by six months of half pay. And Mr S sick pay 
was six months full pay followed by a further  six months of discretionary sick pay, so I 
didnt think it was guaranteed for the full twelve months. The PPI could  have paid out 
for longer  and I thought this could have been a benefit when their sick pay reduced or 
ended.
Mr and Mrs S said they had some savings.  But PPI would  have paid out on top of 
any savings, so those  savings could have been  used for other  living expenses at 
what could have  been a difficult time. 
Mr and Mrs S hadnt said that they had any other ways they could have met the 
repayments, so I thought PPI gave them valuable  protection.
It appeared Mr and Mrs S could  afford  the policies  at the time and I hadnt seen 
anything showing that they had a need  to keep  their costs down.
As well as making sure the policies were  suitable, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs S enough 
information so that they could decide  whether to take out the PPI. I looked  at the benefit 
would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking it out.
In 1999 Mr and Mrs S changed  the benefit  that the PPI offered to cover Mr S only. From  
what Id seen, I didnt  think this was separate sale of PPI. But at this stage Mrs S was 
self-employed, and self-employed  people might have found  it harder to claim under some 
PPI policies. So I couldnt see anything had gone wrong by this change being made.
I also thought  about whether Lloyds needed to give back  Mr and Mrs S some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs S 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 those rules  didnt apply.  So 
Lloyds didnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI they had 
with that mortgage.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs S responded to say they didnt  agree with what  Id said. They said that they 
didnt need PPI as their employee benefits  offered  them  adequate protection.
They reiterated that their bank  manager said the mortgage application  was more likely to 
succeed if they took out insurance.  Mr S said he asked if they could take out unemployment  
and life cover only, but they were told this wasnt possible. 
They have also said there was a time when Mrs S wasnt  able to make a claim for ill health  
as she was self-employed and was no longer covered by the policy. Finally,  Mr and Mrs S 
Ref: DRN67881863have questioned why Lloyds has upheld a complaint about the sale of a separate PPI policy, 
but not this one.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S have  said, but it hasnt changed my mind  that 
their complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
I should make clear that in this decision Ive only considered the sale of PPI, not whether it 
should have paid out on any claim made by Mrs S. Ive been told that a claim was made, but 
turned down, because at the time she was self-employed. If Mr and Mrs S think any claim 
was unfairly turned down they need to raise that directly with the underwriter of the PPI 
policy.
Mr and Mrs S have  said Lloyds has upheld a similar  complaint about PPI and paid 
compensation. But in this complaint Ive only considered the sale of this PPI policy in 1995, 
looking at all the evidence  to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.  Every  
complaint is decided on its own merits and just because one complaint was upheld doesnt 
mean this one must be upheld too.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they recall feeling pressured into taking out the PPI in 1995 and 
being told they stood a better chance  of getting  the mortgage if they took cover.  Ive also 
taken into account  that Mr and Mrs S say they asked for unemployment and life cover,  but 
were sold accident, sickness and unemployment  cover instead. So I think its clear 
insurances were discussed with Lloyds salesman.
Ive thought about this carefully  and Ive taken into account that pressure is a very subjective  
thing. Lloyds recommended  the policy to them, so its just as likely they were told they 
should consider  taking  them out rather than they had to. And from what I know about the 
general cost of insurance at the time, I think its likely an accident, sickness  and 
unemployment policy was likely  to be cheaper than an unemployment and life policy.  Based 
on all the available  evidence, I cant say they werent given  a real choice whether to take out 
the insurances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6788186