K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  She isnt happy  that 
it cancelled her car insurance policy.
background
Miss M took out car insurance with Advantage. But she struggled to pay one of her monthly  
premiums in January  2019. Advantage wrote to her to say that it would cancel her policy  if 
she didnt make payment  within seven  days. And although Miss M made contact to say that 
she could make a partial payment or a payment in full, but just after the proposed  
cancellation date,  it went onto cancel her policy.
When Advantage considered Miss Ms complaint  it didnt change its view about  the 
cancellation. But it did wipe her outstanding  balance and the debt collection fee. This was 
because it realised that it shouldnt have chased  her for the outstanding debt as she had 
made her financial position  clear  and had made a complaint about the cancellation.
Miss M remained  unhappy and complained to this service. Our adjudicator looked into things  
for her and upheld her complaint.  She was satisfied  that Miss M had made contact with 
Advantage before her policy cancelled and explained that she would make a payment in full 
a few days after the proposed cancellation date or that she could make a partial payment 
now. So our case handler thought that it should pay Miss M £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused and remove all records of the cancellation from internal and 
external databases.  
As Advantage didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I can understand why Advantage has cancelled  Miss Ms policy following a strict 
interpretation of its policy. But I dont think that would be fair in these circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
Miss M had missed  direct  debit payments before and simply called, explained her position 
and paid the outstanding  balance a short while later. I havent seen any evidence to say that 
Advantage forewarned Miss M that it wouldnt  accept payment in this manner again  which  I 
wouldve expected  it to. I think this created a false expectancy  for Miss M. She clearly felt 
that she could  do this, if needed, in the future which isnt unreasonable  given how she had 
managed payments up until that point in time.  So Miss M was surprised that it wouldnt allow 
her to do this when she called to explain  that payment would be delayed in January 2019.
As it had allowed her to make payment a few days late previously, and didnt warn her that it 
wouldnt allow this in the future, I think it shouldve allowed payment again this time and 
warned her that it wouldnt allow late payment  in the future. This would  have allowed Miss M 
to manage her affairs better and make sure she understood Advantages position and, 
importantly, that her policy would be cancelled if there was any delay in payment in the 
future. I know Advantage says that the contract allows  them to do this, but the way it has 
Ref: DRN65694412acted each time Miss M has missed a payment previously has impacted on her 
understanding of this. 
Advantage then went onto compound  the problem by sending debt collection letters when 
Miss M had clearly  explained her position  and was in the process  of complaining  about  the 
cancellation of her policy. This mustve been upsetting  for Miss M. I can see that Advantage 
has waived her outstanding premium  and the debt collection  fee as it accepts it shouldnt 
have done this.
So, I think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances  of this 
case is for Advantage to pay an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss M. And it should remove details of the cancellation from all internal and 
external databases  and provide a letter  explaining  this to Miss M.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to: 
pay Miss M £100 compensation;
remove all records of cancellation  from any internal and external records; and 
provide a letter of explanation saying that the policy  was cancelled in error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6569441