K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided to close  his bank account  and sent him 
a letter  to tell him. 
background
Mr M has previously  complained about  Barclays writing  to him concerning his bank account. 
After Mr M asked  us to get involved Barclays agreed to pay him £100.
On 24 May 2019 Barclays sent Mr M a letter giving him notice that it intended  to close his 
account on 25 July 2019. 
Mr M contacted our service  and asked us to look at his complaint.  Barclays  explained that it 
had sent Mr M the closure notice because their relationship had broken down. Barclays also 
said that it wrote to him due to the important nature of the information it was sending. 
Barclays says writing  to customers to notify them  of an account closure is in line with its 
procedures. 
The investigator didnt  think Barclays had made  a mistake by deciding  to close  the account  
or writing to Mr M to tell him. Mr M asked to appeal his complaint so its been passed  to me 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays account terms say We can close your account (and stop providing any services 
and end this agreement) by giving you at least two months notice. Barclays wrote  to Mr M 
on 24 May 2019 and explained it was going to close his account on 25 July 2019. That 
means its given Mr M the required notice  that his account will close.  Barclays  has confirmed 
its taken that decision  because it feels the relationship with Mr M has broken down. 
I understand why Mr M is upset about Barclays decision but it can decide whether to 
continue to provide  him with a bank  account. Barclays  has taken the decision to end its 
relationship with Mr M and given  the notice required. I havent found  anything to show 
Barclays has made a mistake or treated Mr M unfairly by deciding  to close his account. 
Mr M has previously  complained that Barclays has written  to him in the post. I appreciate  
that being sent another letter  is frustrating. But I have to balance  that against Barclays  
obligation to ensure Mr M received this important notice. 
Barclays says it contacts  customers  about  account closures  by post as its the most reliable 
way of ensuring the information is received. I accept this has upset Mr M, especially given 
the nature  of his previous  complaint,  but Im not persuaded that the impact  of its decision to 
write is sufficient for me to uphold  this complaint. Im satisfied that Barclays  took reasonable 
steps to ensure Mr M got important information  about its decision so he could make other 
arrangements. 
Ref: DRN68242342Ive considered everything Mr M and Barclays have said. But I havent found the decision to 
close Mr Ms account was unfair  or Barclays decision to write  to him to give notice was 
unreasonable so Im not telling it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6824234