K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent irresponsibly 
to him.
background
Mr P took out a total of five loans with Sunny between July and November 2015. Each loan 
was due to be repaid  in six monthly  instalments. At times, Mr P had up to three loans 
outstanding. Mr P repaid the first two loans early  and in full. But balances  remain  
outstanding on the remaining loans 
Loan no. Borrowing date
Date loan 
repaidLoan amount
1 15/07/2015 23/10/2015 £100.00
2 13/08/2015 23/10/2015 £150.00
3 31/08/2015 £250.00
4 17/11/2015 £100.00
5 30/11/2015 £500.00
Mr P believes Sunny  was irresponsible  to lend to him. He says that if it had carried out 
proper checks,  it would have realised that he couldnt afford  the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
Sunny had been wrong to give Mr P loans 1 to 4. But he thought  it shouldnt  have made  
loan 5. So he asked  it to pay Mr P some  compensation. Sunny disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Sunny on 14 November  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Sunny  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
that Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN60323962the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint.
Sunny  did some  checks before it lent to Mr P. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Id seen  
a summary of those  checks  and I didnt think they showed anything that should have 
caused additional concerns to Sunny.
Each of Mr Ps loans  was repayable  over a six month period. So the amounts he needed 
to repay  each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal  payday loan. But of course 
he was committing to making those repayments  over a significantly longer period.  And at 
times Mr P had a number of loans outstanding together. So Id needed to consider the 
total amount that Mr P needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I thought Sunny should have been concerned that Mr P needed to take two additional 
loans while he was still repaying  loan 1. And I thought it should have realised that this 
could have indicated  that his finances  were under some pressure. But Id also borne in 
mind that Mr P didnt  appear to have  any difficulty  making his monthly repayments when 
they were due. Sunny was entitled  to rely on the information Mr P gave  it, in the absence 
of anything to suggest it might  not be reliable. And I was satisfied that on the basis  of 
that information, it would have looked as if Mr P would be able to afford his loan 
repayments relatively comfortably, even when  loans  1 to 3 were all running at once.
Given the repayment amounts, what Sunny knew  of Mr Ps circumstances when he 
applied for the loans,  and his borrowing history with Sunny, I didnt think it would have  
been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of information that would have 
been needed to show that the borrowing was unsustainable before making the first three 
loans. So I didnt  think Sunny was wrong to give the first three loans to Mr P.
Mr P applied  for loan 4 just under a month after hed repaid the first two loans. Loan  3 
remained outstanding.  But the combined  monthly repayment on loans 3 and 4 still 
represented a relatively small proportion of Mr Ps declared monthly  pay. However, 
I thought that given  that this was the fourth loan Mr P had applied to Sunny  for in just 
over four months,  Sunny  ought to have  been  concerned that he might  be having difficulty  
managing his finances. And I thought it should have  asked Mr P specifically about  any 
other short-term loans he had outstanding. 
But Id looked  at Mr Ps bank  statements  and credit  report,  and although he had a couple 
of other  short-term loans  outstanding  at the time,  I didnt think they were enough that if 
Sunny had known  about them, it should have concluded that Mr P couldnt afford to take 
out loan 4, or that he was borrowing unsustainably. So I didnt  consider  that Sunny was 
wrong to make loan 4.
Ref: DRN60323963By the time Mr P took out the final loan,  hed been borrowing from Sunny without a break 
for more than four months,  and this was the fifth loan hed applied  for in that time. Whats 
more, the loan Mr P applied  for was significantly higher than the previous loans had 
been. Taking all of this into account,  I thought Sunny  should  have  been  concerned  that 
Mr P might not be borrowing  sustainably. And I thought it should have taken steps to 
verify Mr Ps financial position independently. 
Again,  Id looked at Mr Ps bank statements to see what  better checks would have shown 
Sunny. But from those I hadnt  seen enough  to make me think that Sunny was 
irresponsible to have  given loan 5 to Mr P. The highest monthly repayment due on loan 5 
was less than £160. And although  Mr P was still making monthly payments on loans  3 
and 4, his regular monthly income was more  than enough to meet  the combined loan 
repayments, after meeting his regular  monthly living costs  and existing credit 
commitments.
So although I didnt  think  Sunnys  checks went as far as they should  have done for the 
last two loans,  I didnt think that better  checks would have shown that it would be 
irresponsible to continue to lend to Mr P. Id noted that Mr P was making payments to a 
debt management  plan while he was borrowing from Sunny. And Id borne in mind that 
his credit file shows a few defaults.  But those were a couple of years  before he started 
borrowing from Sunny. And on balance,  I didnt think I could fairly say that they ought to 
have caused serious  enough concern to Sunny to suggest that it shouldnt  have lent to 
Mr P. 
I was sorry  to disappoint Mr P. But this meant  that on the basis of what Id seen so far, 
I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint.
further submissions
Sunnys told us that it accepts my provisional  decision. Mr P hasnt commented on my 
provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Having done so, I cant  see any reason to depart  from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6032396