K821x#15complaint
Ms P is unhappy that United Trust Bank Limited is holding her responsible  for a debt of 
£50,000 secured  on her property which she says she didnt  take out. 
background
In October  2016 a £50,000 loan secured against  Ms Ps property was taken out online, via a 
broker, in Ms Ps name.  Since  the loan was taken  out payments were irregular, which 
eventually led to a possession order being granted to United Trust in July 2017.  
In November 2017 Ms P contacted the bank and said shed become aware of the loan  she 
advised the loan was taken out fraudulently by someone known to her. Ms P asked the bank  
to write the debt off. United Trust didnt agree to write off the debt, so Ms P raised a 
complaint with them.
Ms P also reported the fraud to the police.  The fraudster  was arrested and in interview 
admitted taking out the loan with United Trust without Ms Ps consent  or authority. 
In response United Trust said that they received notification in November 2017 from Ms P 
that the loan was taken out by somebody known to her. But theyre not prepared to remove  
the debt until the police have finished their investigations. 
Ms Ps wasnt happy with United Trust banks response so complained  to us. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint  and thought United Trust needed  to do more  
to put things right. In particular they highlighted that the signature on the loan agreement  
was different to that submitted on her application to our service. They thought  that United 
Trust should write off Ms Ps debt,  and in recognition of the banks delay  in cancelling the 
debt compensate her £500.
 
Ms P accepted our investigators opinion but United  Trust didnt agree. The bank said:
-A Security Check was completed at the start of the loan  which involved questions 
taken from Ms Ps credit file. These  included  questions about Ms Ps current 
accounts for example her overdraft  limits which were answered  confidently and 
without errors.  
-United Trust werent  notified about the alleged fraud until a year after the loan was 
taken out  despite letters being sent to Ms Ps home address by United Trust, their 
solicitors and the Court.
-A field agent attended Ms Ps property on three  occasions but wasnt  able to speak  to 
anybody. But, they did leave a letter behind which wasnt responded to. 
-They contacted  Ms Ps employer in March 2017, and spoke with Ms P. Ms P said she 
couldnt speak  to the bank as she was at work and provided United Trust with an 
email address for correspondence. United Trust contacted  Ms P but didnt receive a 
response.   
Ref: DRN60050002-Although the third party  admitted  to taking out the loan under Ms Ps identity, its 
possible they will enter a plea of not guilty in Court.
-They consolidated  a number of unsecured debts and redeemed an existing second 
mortgage to a third party business  if the charge  is removed they may have a claim 
against Ms P. 
As United  Trust didnt agree with our investigators opinion, its been  passed to be for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what the 
investigator has said for broadly the same  reasons. 
security checks
United Trust explained  a number of security  checks were carried out when the loan was 
initially taken out. They are concerned because these questions were  answered confidently 
and without any errors. 
The third party who has confessed to taking out this and other loans in Ms Ps name lived at 
her address.  This meant they had access to Ms Ps identification documents and knowledge 
of Ms Ps financial details.  They also had the opportunity to intercept post at Ms Ps address. 
Ive looked at the loan agreement taken out in October 2017 and compared the signature on 
the agreement  with Ms Ps signature  when contacting this service. And I think they are 
noticeably different. While I appreciate United Trust did take steps to verify  that Ms P took 
out the loan  on this occasion, based on the evidence available  to me, Im satisfied  that 
United Trust were dealing  with a fraudster who was pretending to be Ms P. As such, I dont 
think its fair that Ms P should  be held responsible for the loan when  she didnt consent to the 
loan being taken out or the debt being secured on her property. 
time taken  to report the fraud
United Trust has argued  that Ms P could  have responded to contact from them sooner. Ive 
considered this point,  but as the third party lived with Ms P I find it more likely than not they 
were intercepting her post. In any case,  Im satisfied Ms P didnt take out the loan. So, even 
if she could have put the bank on notice sooner than November 2017 it doesnt change  the 
fact that Ms P didnt consent to the loan.  
United Trust also contacted Ms Ps employer in March 2017 and spoke to Ms P. At the time 
Ms P said she couldnt speak and provided  them with an email address. Given  the 
complexity of this particular case of fraud  I dont think its unreasonable that Ms P didnt  
respond to the contact.  As the fraud  started  to unfold the third party fraudster was lying to 
Ms P and it took her some time to unpick  all the fraud that was taking place. As soon as 
Ms P got to grips with the nature and extent of that the third party  had done she contacted  
the police. I dont think its fair to say that Ms P should be held responsible for a debt she 
didnt consent  to, because she didnt contact  United Trust sooner. In this case, as the loan 
had already been drawn down, contacting the bank sooner wouldnt have changed things. 
court case
Ref: DRN60050003United Trust is concerned that the person who has admitted taking out the loan may enter  a 
plea of not guilty in court. I agree that its possible  the third party could change their plea.  
And they could do this for a number  of reasons depending on what theyre being prosecuted 
for. We are an alternative to the court and my role is to determine,  based on the available 
evidence, if Ms P can be held responsible for the debt. Im satisfied,  I dont need  to wait until 
the court case is completed to decide  this. 
Im persuaded that the third party took out the loan without Ms Ps knowledge or consent. 
When the third party  was arrested by the police, during  interviews they admitted to taking out 
the loan with United Trust in Ms Ps name. I understand that the bank want to wait until the 
court hearing. But my role here is to consider whether United Trust can hold Ms P 
responsible for the loan. And based  on the evidence Im not satisfied  they can, because 
Ms P didnt sign the loan agreement and a third party has admitted to taking  out the loan in 
Ms Ps name. 
consolidated debt
United Trust feel we need to consider the wider implications in this case. The loan taken out 
was used to consolidate a number  of unsecured debts  and redeemed  an existing second  
mortgage to a third party  business. United Trust say if the charge is removed there may be a 
claim against Ms P. I do appreciate the point raised  by United Trust. But, in this case, my 
role is to consider  whether Ms P can be held responsible  for the debt. 
Ms P has suffered stress and anxiety since discovering the loan was taken out fraudulently 
in her name. She notified the bank in November 2017, but despite  the police confirming to 
United Trust that somebody known  to Ms P had committed fraud, they havent taken any 
action to remove the debt. 
In conclusion I dont  think that Ms P took out the secured loan with United Trust, and 
therefore shouldnt  be responsible for the debt. I think its fair and reasonable for the bank to 
write-off the debt, based on the evidence thats  been provided. And I think  United Trust 
should also compensate Ms P for the impact  caused by them not writing off the debt. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint against United Trust Bank  Limited. To put 
things right I require United Trust Bank Limited  to:
-Write  off the balance  of owing on the secured loan and remove  any associated 
interest and charges
-Contact the relevant  authorities to remove any interest secured on Ms Ps property  
-Remove any negative  markers and reference to the loan from Ms Ps credit file
-Pay Ms P £500 in compensation for the distress caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Ref: DRN60050004Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6005000