K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc lost his documents.
background
Mr D sent documents  to National Westminster but the bank says it didnt receive them.  Mr D 
considers National  Westminster lost the documents.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She wasnt  persuaded 
that National Westminster  had received the documents, so she didnt think  it was fair or 
reasonable to hold it responsible for them being lost.
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
From what  Ive seen, I havent been able to safely conclude that National Westminster 
received Mr Ds documents. So it wouldnt  be fair for me to hold the bank responsible  for 
losing them.
Ive noted what  Mr D has said about the message he received from National  Westminster, 
which he considers  shows contradictions  about  whether or not the branch has systems to 
handle post.
But having  considered the message in question,  I think  National Westminster was saying  
that even if the branch had received Mr Ds documents, they wouldnt be available for the 
specialist support team to see on its electronic systems. 
I dont think the message  meant that the branch didnt have systems to forward the actual 
documents to the specialist support team.
So for the reasons Ive explained,  I wont be upholding  Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200704