K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is in relation to Inter Partner  Assistance  SAs (IPA) decision to stop 
covering a claim on his motor legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to IPA include their claims handlers.
background
Mr W was involved  in a road traffic  accident.  Six months later he was charged with 
dangerous driving. When charges were  initially brought against him, he made  a claim on his 
motor legal expenses  insurance policy to cover  his legal costs  in defending them.  IPA 
appointed a panel firm to act for him as well as a barrister. 
Part way through the proceedings the case against  Mr W was moved up to the Crown  Court 
from the Magistrates Court. The policy  said that in these circumstances, Mr W would need to 
apply for legal aid to fund his defence  instead of the legal expenses insurance.  IPA told Mr 
W this. But in the interests  of treating  him fairly, they agreed to fund the cost of an experts 
report obtained for him as well as his barristers fees up to that point. They also said theyd 
cover his defence  costs  up to the legal  aid rate. And theyve since agreed  to pay more  of the 
experts fees he incurred  after legal aid was granted.
Mr W was eligible for legal  aid which is means  tested. Mr Ws income  fell below the 
threshold for him to be required to pay anything towards it. But he was eventually required to 
pay costs that were drawn under a Capital Contributions Order (CCO). Thats  because  a 
CCO is based on capital  assets. He feels IPA should pay this since they offered to pay his 
defence costs up to the legal aid rate. He also says IPA handled his claim badly so should 
compensate him accordingly.
IPA have accepted their service did at times fall below what it thought was reasonable so 
offered Mr W £500 in compensation for that. But it wasnt prepared to pick up the CCO. 
Since the complaint was brought to us, Mr W made a plea of careless  driving which meant  
his case was moved back to the Magistrates Court. But hed already  incurred  costs  during 
the time his case was in the Crown  Court that IPA werent prepared to pay. This is because  
they say those costs  form part of a CCO. They also say they werent obliged  to pick up any 
costs when the case was sent up from the Magistrates Court,  but they agreed to do so as a 
gesture of goodwill. If the policy  terms were different and did offer cover to those eligible for 
legal aid, IPA say they still wouldnt pay costs awarded under a CCO because  they are only 
payable when someone is convicted of an offence-which is specifically excluded.  And by 
pleased guilty, this meant Mr W was convicted.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  Mr W 
doesnt agree so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN64363502I appreciate that in this case, IPA has offered to do more than the policy  terms required it to 
and that Mr W placed  reliance on this during proceedings. When  looking  at this complaint, 
Ive considered what the policy terms say and whether what IPA did was reasonable.
In this case the policy terms say that claims for advisers costs  where the insured is entitled  
to a grant  of legal aid from the Legal Services Commission are not insured. Mr W wasnt  
entitled to this until his case was transferred to the Crown Court. So, I think it was 
reasonable for IPA to fund his costs up until this point. When it became clear  the policy 
wouldnt cover  him, IPA said theyd cover  his defence costs up to the legal aid rate. But they 
later said they wouldnt  pay the CCO made against Mr W. IPA say that although  they went 
outside the policy terms when offering to pay his defence costs,  they did so on the basis  that 
other comparable  policies wouldve offered this cover- provided a CCO  wasnt  made. Thats  
because a CCO is only made when someone is convicted. They also dont think its legal for 
them to pick up these  costs on behalf of a Defendant because  it effectively forms part of Mr 
Ws sentence.
Mr W feels that he was misled and that he should be entitled to have the CCO paid. But I 
dont agree. The CCO isnt means  tested but rather is based on the available capital assets  
Mr W had at the time. It comes  at the end of proceedings when a Defendant accepts guilt.  I 
dont think the CCO forms part of Mr Ws sentence, but it is a sanction for his admission of 
guilt. So, I can see why IPA or indeed another insurer  would be unprepared to offer cover for 
this. 
Mr W has said that he wasnt required to make any means tested contributions  towards his 
defence because his income fell below the threshold  set for legal aid. Had he done  so, he 
says his contributions  towards his defence costs would have been paid for by IPA. Because 
of this he says IPA should do what  they said they would by picking  up his defence costs up 
to the equivalent of the legal aid rate. Ive thought about this, but I dont think  thats  right. The 
situation Mr W finds himself in is a difficult one, however discharging  the CCO isnt the offer 
IPA made. What they agreed to pay was his defence costs up to the equivalent  of the legal 
aid rate but thats not what Mr W is being  asked  to pay here. Rather  Mr W is being asked to 
pay a lump sum towards  the cost of his representation based on his available  capital assets  
at the point of his guilty plea. Its unfortunate that things worked  out as they did but I dont 
think this means IPA need to do anything further. They werent,  after all, obliged  to fund Mr 
Ws costs beyond the case  being transferred to the Crown Court  in any event.
Ive also thought about the offer IPA made Mr W in respect of some of the delays they 
caused in dealing with his claim and the impact  this wouldve had on him at a stressful  time. I 
think the £500 theyve offered to compensate him for this is reasonable. Ive also thought 
about the position he was left in after IPA said they wouldnt offer him the full extent of cover  
previously offered when  his claim was transferred to the Crown Court. For the reasons set 
out above, I think IPA was entitled  to do this. I appreciate that this wouldve been  stressful 
for Mr W- particularly  because he was mid-way through proceedings, but IPA did offer to 
pick up more than it was obliged to when  the policy didnt require them to continue  funding 
the matter. Because of this I dont think they need  to offer him anything further. 
Ref: DRN64363503my final decision
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont  uphold  his complaint against  
Inter Partner Assistance  SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6436350