K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Close Brothers  Limited trading as Close  Brothers Motor Finance applied  
unfair charges relating to a missed direct debit  payment on his conditional sale agreement. 
He wants the charges  to be waived.
background
Mr C tells us that hes been making  monthly  repayments on this agreement  since  March  
2017 and had never previously missed a payment. He says he was notified by CBMF  on 30 
April 2019 that a direct debit had failed. Mr C says he arranged for his wife to make the 
payment by debit  card the same  day. He feels the charge is unfair as he says it was due to a 
minor oversight at a time he was dealing with family issues.  He says the payment was made 
immediately he became aware of the failed  direct debit.
CBMF told us that the charge  had been  applied in line with its terms and conditions and that 
it wasnt willing to waive the charge.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He felt that cases  needed to 
be reviewed on an individual basis. And in these circumstances he felt that - as Mr C had 
overlooked the payment due to dealing with personal family issues and had made payment 
immediately he became aware of the omission - discretion should have been applied
CBMF didnt  agree and said the charge was properly applied.  As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Ive been  asked to make  this decision as a colleague - who had started 
to investigate the complaint - has unfortunately been taken ill. I note that my colleague had 
contacted CBMF - prior to issuing  a final decision - and said hed concluded it would be fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances (payment made only one day late and immediately 
Mr C became aware) for the charge to be waived. And he suggested CBMF might wish to 
resolve the complaint informally and waive the charge. CBMF responded to this but declined 
to agree to this resolution and said it had applied the charge in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
Ive now reviewed all the information and Ive reached my own conclusions separately from 
the views  of my colleagues which I outlined above.
The basic  facts arent in dispute. Mr Cs direct  debit payment was due on 29 April 2019. It 
wasnt met, although Im not aware  of the reason for this. Mr C describes it as an oversight 
but - as a direct debit is an automated event - I infer that any oversight might relate to the 
funding of the account.
Ive seen an account statement relating to the agreement which  indicates that this was the 
only occasion on which a payment has failed  or been made late. And the missed payment 
was paid the next day, 30 April.
Ref: DRN64982722I accept what CBMF has said in that the charges were permissible within the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. The relevant  section  reads:
You must pay us the following compensation for breach of contract each time one of the 
following events occurs; £15 if we send you an arrears letter, £15 if we serve a default  notice 
on you. £25 if a direct debit or standing order is unpaid.
I can see CBMF sent Mr C a letter dated  1 May 2019 and which was headed: 
NOTICE OF DEFAULT SUMS
30-04-2019 DD Returned Fee        £25 
30-04-2019 Typed Arrears Letter    £15 
Total Fee Amount                           £40.00
Although CBMF told us the arrears letter was automated the day the direct debit failed, Id 
simply comment that the date on this letter  in the file which  CBMF supplied  is 1 May. By this 
time the account  was no longer in arrears so its arguable whether this default  letter  ought to 
have been sent. However,  I dont think I need to make any finding  on this point  in order to 
make my decision.
I emphasise that Im required to make my decision on what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable, in all the circumstances of the complaint. Although the terms and conditions of 
the agreement  makes the charges permissible that doesnt mean its automatically fair and 
reasonable to impose them.
Here the missed payment was inadvertent and was immediately  rectified.  It was probably the 
result of Mr C being distracted by some health  problems  being experienced by members of 
his family.  It was the first time during the two years  the agreement had been running  that a 
payment had been missed. So I think there  was ample reason for discretion to have been 
exercised in Mr Cs favour and the charge waived. 
I dont think sufficient consideration  was given by CBMF to the mitigating circumstances of 
which itd been  made aware. And this seems to be supported  by the fact that the complaint 
was closed within a day of being  made. I dont think applying the charges in these particular 
circumstances was fair and reasonable.
Im aware Mr C also thought the level of the charges was extortionate. But I must  emphasise 
that my decision takes no account of the amount  of the charges. Its not necessary for me to 
consider this aspect  in order to reach  my decision and, accordingly, I make  no finding on this 
point. But I would advise  that this service  cannot ordinarily look into the level of charges.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. 
I require Close Brothers  Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor  Finance to either waive the 
charges of £40 in respect of the failed direct  debit of 29 April 2019 and arrears default letter 
or, if Mr C has paid those charges, to refund him.
Ref: DRN64982723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6498272