K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd wont cancel a finance agreement 
he took out to fund a training course  and qualification. 
background
Mr D signed up for a training course in March 2016. Mr D would receive a qualification in a 
new field of work on successful completion of the course. Mr D paid a £50 registration fee to 
the course provider.  The training course  provider then brokered  a loan, financed by 
Caledonian, in order for Mr D to pay for the course. The total cost of the course (including 
the registration fee) was £7,145. The loan was to be repaid over 43 months at £165  per 
month.
In June 2018 Mr D contacted the course provider to say he wanted  to cancel the course  
because he had been struggling  with his finances  and couldnt afford to keep  paying  each 
month. He also said he found the quality of the teaching to be poor and hed heard similar 
issues from other people. Because Mr D was unhappy with the course providers response 
he complained  to Caledonian and asked  for a refund. 
Caledonian didnt  agree  to cancel  the finance agreement  as it wasnt something  Mr D could 
withdraw from. Caledonian  considered  Mr Ds concerns about the course provider as a claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  But it didnt think  there had been any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the course provider so it didnt agree to give him 
any refund  of what hed paid. Lastly, it asked Mr D to fill in an income  and expenditure form 
so that it could assess how it could help him with his financial difficulties. 
I sent Mr D and Caledonian my provisional decision  on 9 December 2019. I explained that 
I thought the loan was unaffordable to Mr D and the complaint should therefore be upheld. 
An extract  of my reasoning is set out below. 
In considering whether Caledonian acted fairly in granting the loan, Ive taken into account 
the rules and guidance in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC). 
CONC says Caledonian  was required  to carry out a proportionate assessment of Mr Ds 
ability to sustainably repay the borrowing.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  
check. This check needed to be borrower-focussed, which  means it wasnt  good  enough  
for Caledonian just to consider how likely Mr D was to repay the borrowing  or in other 
words, its credit risk. Instead  it needed  to be satisfied Mr D could afford  the monthly 
repayments without  causing him undue difficulty or needing  to borrower further  to meet  the 
repayments. 
There arent set things Caledonian had to do or ask when  doing the check.  But CONC says 
the check it carried out needed  to be proportionate  to the circumstances. Whats  considered  
proportionate will depend on a number of things such  as (but not limited to) the size of the 
loan, the size of the repayments,  the term and the consumers  individual  circumstances. 
The loan was for around £7,000 and over 43 months. So I think  this was a significant  
commitment for Mr D to make. As part of the application Mr D was asked to fill in an income 
and expenditure  form. This showed  that he had approximately £170 in disposable income 
each month. As the loan repayments  were £165  per month, Caledonian considered it to be 
affordable. But I have significant  concerns about  the information  Caledonian relied  on. 
Ref: DRN62168452The income and expenditure form details most normal living  expenses  but the most 
significant omission is other credit commitments. So in determining  Mr Ds disposable  
income, it appears Caledonian had no consideration for any other borrowing Mr D might  
have already committed to (apart from his mortgage). On a separate part of the application  
form Mr D declared  that he held four credit card accounts. But his payments towards these 
cards werent included in his expenditure calculation.  
After the loan was taken  into consideration  (and if Mr Ds self-declared expenditure was 
accurate), he would  only have £5 each month  to use to pay all four credit  cards.  He would  
therefore be unable  to maintain his existing commitments without having to borrow further. It 
follows that this loan was not affordable or sustainable. The fact Mr D eventually had to 
contact the course  provider and Caledonian about  no longer being able to keep up with his 
repayments also supports  this point.  
Caledonian also carried out a credit check at the point of application. This showed  that as 
well as the mortgage, Mr D had around  £11,000 outstanding on unsecured  loans and around 
a further £7,200 in credit  card debt.  And it could  see he was using almost his entire available 
credit on those credit cards. This means  sustainable  monthly repayments on those credit 
cards were  likely to be quite significant, and certainly much  more than £5 per month. 
Although there was no adverse data recorded  against any of these  debts, Caledonian ought  
to have realised that taking out a further  loan was likely to be unaffordable and 
unsustainable for Mr D. 
From everything Mr D had declared on his income  and expenditure form it ought to have 
been clear this new loan would make  him overcommitted each month.  While  Mr D did 
manage to maintain payments against this loan for over a year, it doesnt automatically 
follow that the lending was therefore affordable and sustainable. 
So taking into account what  Caledonian already  knew,  I dont think it made  a responsible  
lending decision.  Mr D wasnt in a position to be able to afford to sustainably repay the loan 
and Caledonian  ought to have been  aware  of this from the information it had gathered. 
I then explained  that to put things right Caledonian should cancel the loan and refund 
everything Mr D had paid towards the course, adding 8% simple interest per year to each  
payment hed made. This is because Mr D was unable to meaningfully benefit from any of 
the learning he had completed  under the course so far. I also said Caledonian should 
remove any adverse information  about  this loan from his credit  file. 
Mr D accepted my provisional  decision.  Caledonian had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion  I reached in my 
provisional decision. So for the same reasons Ive given above, I dont think Caledonian 
made a reasonable lending decision when granting  this loan to Mr D. 
Ref: DRN62168453my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct 
Caledonian Consumer  Finance Ltd to:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay. 
Remove any charges  that have been applied to the agreement.
Remove any adverse  information in relation to the loan from Mr Ds credit file. 
Refund all payments Mr D has made  towards the agreement,  including any deposit  
or registration fee, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each  payment  
to the date of settlement. 
If Caledonian considers tax should  be deducted from the interest  part of my award then it 
should provide  Mr D with a tax deduction certificate  showing  how much its taken off. This is 
so that Mr D can reclaim the tax if he is entitled  to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6216845