K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) mishandled his buildings 
insurance claim.
background
Mr A holds a buildings insurance  policy  with RSA, and he contacted the insurer to make a 
claim in January 2018 following an escape  of water  in his bathroom. RSA appointed a loss 
adjuster, who visited Mr As property on 16 February  2018. But Mr A has complained  about  
the way his claim was subsequently handled:
He had no bathroom facilities for more than a month until the loss adjuster was 
appointed in February 2018,  which caused  his family a lot of distress and 
inconvenience;
The loss adjuster often wouldnt respond to Mr A;
The quality of workmanship was poor and there were often delays in completing the 
works.
Mr A appointed a loss assessor in March  2018  to handle the claim on his behalf, so RSA 
arranged a cash settlement directly  with the loss assessors, including a disturbance  
allowance for Mr A and his family.  But Mr A does not feel the allowance  was commensurate 
to the disturbance, distress and inconvenience his family have had to endure, so he wants 
RSA to pay further compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. She felt it was reasonable that RSA hadnt 
appointed a loss adjuster until February as it took some time to establish the extent of the 
damage and what  was required.  And based on the evidence the investigator had seen, she 
thought it was likely that Mr A still had use of other washing facilities in his bathroom.
Mr A disagreed as he still felt he was entitled to compensation. So the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
First, its important to note that Mr A had appointed  his own loss assessor  to handle his claim 
with the insurer  on his behalf, where  a mandate was provided to RSA which  said: 
I, the policyholder  instruct  the insurer to deal solely  with [the loss assessors] on my behalf  in 
relation to the claim, including but not limited  to
Negotiating and settling the claim
Carrying out full reparations to my/our property  including cleaning,  mitigation and 
building contracts
Addressing to [the loss assessors]  all correspondence and telephone calls in relation 
to the claim.
Ref: DRN68279722Further, I hereby instruct  my/our insurers to make all settlements in whole or part in favour of 
[the loss assessors],  who will carry out all disbursements to me/us  and all suppliers.
The above  mandate  was signed by Mr A on 28 February 2018. So given that hed assigned  
his rights to the loss assessor in accordance with the above terms, RSA were only required 
to deal with the loss assessor as Mr As agent  which they did. The agreement Mr A had 
with the loss assessor meant that they spoke  for him and on his behalf.  There was therefore 
no duty on the part of RSA to also consult or respond to Mr A, so I dont think  theyve acted 
unreasonably in not doing so.
Mr A has also raised concerns about the amount of disturbance allowance  he received, as 
he does not feel it is adequate. But again,  this was something that was negotiated and paid 
in line with the recommendations of Mr As loss assessor. So RSAs only obligation  here was 
to pay the amount that had been  negotiated on Mr As behalf. Similarly, in terms of the 
quality of workmanship and the time taken to complete  the works, this was also the 
responsibility of the loss assessor  not the insurer  so any complaints in this regard ought 
to be raised directly with the loss assessor.
Mr A has also complained that RSA took too long to send a loss adjuster to visit his property, 
and that he and his family  were without washing facilities  for more than a month. Mr As 
policy entitles him to cover for trace and access,  as well as the reinstatement of any 
accidental damage.  However, it does not cover him for the physical repair  of the leak or the 
pipework to be fixed, which fell to Mr A to arrange himself.
I can see from the claim notes that Mr A reported  the leak to RSA on 4 January 2018,  where  
the insurer confirmed  that the repair of the leak itself was not covered. The notes say that 
Mr A was still in the process of locating  the leak, and that he would come back to the insurer 
once it had been found and repaired so he could start a damage claim. I can see that the 
insurer was waiting on Mr A for some  time to confirm  he had located and fixed the leak,  and 
it appears there was some confusion over what was required in order to fix the leak.
I can see that contractors from Mr As home emergency cover  visited  the property, but it 
wasnt established until 18 January 2018  that trace and access  was likely required in order 
to locate the leak, which was outside  the remit of his home emergency cover, but would be 
covered by the buildings  policy. So I think that RSA couldve perhaps  looked to arrange this 
sooner, but it appears that the full extent  of the damage was still unknown,  so I dont think  it 
was an unreasonable amount of time for the insurer to assess  the situation before a loss 
adjuster was eventually appointed.
The leak was eventually  identified  as coming  from the shower, but I can see from the loss 
adjusters pictures  that Mr A also had access to other facilities  in the home including a bath, 
sink and toilet. So I dont think it was unreasonable that RSA didnt pay any disturbance  
allowance until the point that the entire  bathroom was stripped out and prepared  for 
reinstatement. 
I appreciate that Mr A has been put to varying  levels of inconvenience, which  is often 
inevitable during something  stressful  such as an escape of water  that has caused damage to 
the home. But having considered all the available evidence,  I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that RSA has done  anything substantially wrong, such  that compensation 
ought to be paid. I understand that Mr A has concerns about the work that was completed  
and the amount of disturbance allowance he was paid. But as I set out above, such 
Ref: DRN68279723concerns should  be directed as his loss assessor, whom I understand he has since 
registered a complaint against. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6827972