K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) gave him a fraudulent £20 note when he 
withdrew cash in branch  on 8 February  2019.
background 
Mr F came to us as he was unhappy  with the response from Barclays  when he complained.  
They told him the complaint had been resolved  but he didnt  agree.
In their Final  Response Letter to Mr F on 14 February 2019 the bank told him they couldnt 
prove the £20.00 note hed received was a fraudulent one from Barclays.  They  told Mr F 
they couldnt comment on his concerns about receiving  a criminal record  for the incident. 
Barclays told Mr F their records  confirmed,  as a gesture of goodwill, the branch gave him a 
further £20.00 note on the day. They  also offered to credit Mr Fs account  with £50.00 if the 
incident had caused him any distress and inconvenience and asked  him to contact them  if 
he wanted to accept this. Barclays declined to compensate Mr F with the £1500 hed 
requested as he was pursuing the matter  with a lawyer. Barclays  told him they wouldnt 
cover his legal  bills, as it would be his choice to take this issue  up with a legal team.
Our investigator said he hadnt  seen any evidence supporting Mr Fs testimony  that Barclays 
had given him the fraudulent note.  He thought Barclays  offer of £50 was fair and reasonable 
because there wasnt  sufficient evidence that theyd given Mr F the fraudulent  note. The 
investigator thought  Barclays  put right any error it may have made quickly  as - if Barclays did 
give him the fraudulent note - according to Mr F it was replaced within two hours.
Mr F didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.  He told us if Barclays  
were willing to offer increased compensation then he would settle the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion.  So I shant repeat that here. Im afraid, theres not a great deal I can add 
to what hes already told Mr F. I think hes covered most points quite  clearly.
I know Mr F has asked  for us to view CCTV footage from the branch. But, like the 
investigator, I dont  think that footage from the branch would be of any assistance  here as its 
primarily intended to provide  a record of activity within  the branch in case  of incident  and to 
promote security. Its not designed to provide an audit trail of all the individual  transactions  
that customers carry out at the counter or the serial numbers on the notes  handled. So its 
generally of quite limited  value in disputes  of this type. 
I cant know for certain where  the fraudulent note came from. But for the outcome of his 
complaint I dont think that matters. And thats because, even if Barclays  did provide the 
note, I think the actions theyve taken - as goodwill gestures - are a reasonable response. 
Theres been no financial loss to Mr F - the note was replaced  within  two hours by Barclays.  
And whilst I dont doubt the whole episode has been embarrassing and inconvenient for Mr F 
I cant see anything to suggest hes been the subject criminal  proceedings or convicted as a 
result of the incident.  So whilst I understand he had concerns about a criminal  record I think  
Ref: DRN63114832they were unfounded. Overall, I think,  the compensation  Barclays  have offered is reasonable 
and its in line with the sort of award Id have made had it not been offered by the bank 
already. So I think  Barclays  response to Mr Fs concerns has been  fair.
Given how strongly Mr F feels  about what happened he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Barclays informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr F.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC have made  a reasonable offer to pay £50 
compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6311483