K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 
alongside a mortgage. The PPI went live in 1992.  Mr H says Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B)  
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr Hs original complaint was that he paid for a policy that he didnt need,  and he also 
mentioned trying to claim on the policy. More recently Mr H says he was told he had to take 
out the PPI in order to get the mortgage. Ive considered what Mr H has said alongside all 
the other available  evidence  to come to a decision  on what I think is more  likely to have 
happened. Ive also considered that this policy was sold a long time ago  around 28 years 
ago. 
B&B says the PPI was an optional product. Its also provided a copy  of a separate  PPI 
application form Mr H saw and signed at the time. This shows that accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover  was selected and the amount of monthly benefit required was entered  
on the form. Mr H signed  this application  to agree to take out the cover. And although  I 
wasnt present at the time the PPI was sold, so cant say exactly what happened,  I havent 
seen any evidence that the PPI was compulsory or any suggestion  that it wouldve improved 
Mr Hs chances of securing the mortgage.  So based on the evidence  I have seen I think B&B 
made it clear  Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  
I can understand why he cant remember this.
Mr H says he was advised to take out the PPI. But B&B says the PPI was sold on a non-
advised basis. However, it is not necessary  for me make a conclusive determination on this 
point. This is because I have not found  that the policy  was unsuitable for Mr H for the 
reasons set out below. So, even if I assume advice was given, it does not affect the outcome 
of this complaint.
As an advised sale B&B had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy  was right for Mr H 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr H says he wouldve been entitled to some sick pay from his employer had he been too 
unwell to work. But this policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event Mr H was 
off sick from work. And this wouldve been in addition to his sick pay, and for longer  so 
these funds couldve been used for other  expenses. The PPI wouldve also paid out in the 
event Mr H had been made redundant. So I still think the policy was suitable for him.  
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN68304202affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But B&B will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because : 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  B&B didnt  tell Mr H, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  B&B should also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bradford  & Bingley plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6830420