K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Interactive Investor Services Limited  (IISL) gave him late notice of 
the delisting of shares  he held.  He says the late notice deprived him of the opportunity  to sell 
his shares and that they have since been devalued. He seeks  compensation in this respect.
background
Mr Ms IISL account operated on an execution only basis.  The chronology  of events can be 
summarised as follows:
On 2 February 2018 a corporate  action  notice (CAN) was issued to Mr M in which 
reference was made  to the Possible Liquidation of the stock  related to his 
shareholding. The CAN summarised  that the relevant company had been 
incorporated in 2016 and  was created to hold, manage and realise in an orderly 
manner the illiquid assets  of a predecessor company; that the company would be 
making no new investments and would be distributing the proceeds of realisations to 
shareholders; and that an ordinary resolution to wind up the company would be put to 
shareholders no later than the second  anniversary of the companys listing  (no later 
than 26 September  2018) unless, before then, the shareholders  approve  a special 
resolution to extend its life.
On 19 September  another CAN was issued  to Mr M, giving notice of the delisting of 
the stock (effective on 24 September 2018) and giving notice that the next day (20 
September) would be the last date of supported trading in the stock.
On 21 September  another CAN was issued  about a meeting on 24 September to 
discuss the proposed  liquidation and on 12 October another  CAN was issued about 
the liquidation distributions.
Mr Ms complaint is that the CAN of 19 September was too late and gave insufficient time for 
him to sell his holding before the trading deadline the following day; he also says IISL learnt  
about the delisting much  earlier than 19 September and should have shared that information 
with him promptly. 
IISL disputes the complaint. It says Mr M retained  responsibility for the management of his 
execution only account and he was given ample  notice in the 2 February CAN about the 
probability of the stocks  liquidation, so he had months  before September   to consider his 
position. It accepts  that it learnt about the delisting on 10 September but because it was an 
event that did not require  shareholders response it was permitted to convey the notice on a 
best endeavours basis. In addition, it says it has evidence that Mr M logged  into his account 
at 18:55 on 19 September, so he would have had the opportunity to see the CAN sent earlier  
on that date and the opportunity to sell his shares before the stock delisted.
The complaint was referred  to this service and was considered by one of our adjudicators.  
She concluded that it should not be upheld, for broadly  the same reasons  as those given by 
IISL. She also highlighted specific terms for the account which supported  IISLs position.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He considered  that some of the wordings of the agreed 
terms required legal advice which he did not have; that the CAN  about possible liquidation 
was not certain  enough to prompt him to take action;  that if the CAN had referred to a 
definite liquidation he would have sold his holding  at the time; and that it cannot be 
reasonable for IISL to have delayed, over nine days,  sharing the delisting notice and then for 
Ref: DRN61372562it to have given  him only one day to react before the deadline for supported trading. The 
matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the point Mr M makes in relation  to the CAN of 2 February, but I am not 
persuaded by it. He says the CAN was not enough to prompt him to take action on his 
shareholding because its reference to liquidation was not definitive. The CAN of 2 February 
contained enough information to remind Mr M that the relevant company had a specific 
purpose  to realise the illiquid assets of a predecessor company. It also said that the 
company would be making no new investments,  would be distributing the proceeds of 
realisations to shareholders  and would  be proposing  to wind itself up by 26 September at the 
latest  unless shareholders elected, before then, to extend its life.
I accept that this CAN did not give an express confirmation that the company will definitely 
be wound up by 26 September  at the latest,  but it gave notice that the intention  (or plan) was 
to do so. Given the summary  of the background,  within the CAN, such  winding up was more 
probable than not. I appreciate that Mr M retained his discretion on how to react but if, as he 
says, liquidation of the company would have made  him sell his holding (ahead of such  an 
event) then I consider  that the CAN  of 2 February  ought reasonably to have prompted him, 
before September, to either do so (sell his holding) or to put a plan in place to do so. 
In addition, and as the adjudicator highlighted, Mr M should have directly monitored  the 
stock from February  especially after the message in the CAN that month; in addition and in 
the context of his execution  only account,  if he needed IISLs  assistance  in sharing 
shareholder communications related  to the stock he should have  requested such  assistance. 
I have not seen evidence that Mr M did either  of these.  With regards  to the latter,  the terms 
for the account  provided that he needed  to request such  assistance  if he wanted it. Given 
that his holding was self-managed  it could reasonably be said that he also should have done 
the former  (that is, direct monitoring).
Evidence suggests that Mr M was aware  of the CAN of 19 September  on that date.  Given 
that the CAN  of 2 February ought  reasonably to have prompted him, at least, to put in place 
a plan to sell his holding, such a plan could  have been executed on 19 September or before 
the end of 20 September (which was the last day of supported trading in the stock).
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that Mr M did enough to discharge  his 
responsibility or to mitigate his position in the matter  he has complained  about.  I do not 
accept he was obstructed from doing  so by IISL. In the absence of such  obstruction I do not 
consider that IISL is responsible for the matter  he has complained about.
I understand Mr Ms point  about the delay  of nine days over which IISL could have notified 
him of the delisting but did not. IISL has given a plausible explanation for this  especially in 
the context of its execution only service.  In addition, Mr M knew   or should  have known  
since February that the company would  probably be wound up and delisted by September. It 
could reasonably be said that he should have been monitoring the matter directly  (or through  
a request to IISL for shareholder  communications)   in which case, he could have learnt 
about the delisting earlier than the CAN  of 19 September.
Ref: DRN61372563my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 November 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137256