K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly caused  a delay in uploading her 
signature onto its systems.  She says this caused her financial loss as well as distress and 
inconvenience.
background
On 23 December 2020, I issued a provisional  decision which  was sent to both parties. In 
short, I said I wasnt intending  to uphold Mrs Fs complaint as I thought the compensation 
already paid by Barclays  for an error  it made,  was fair. Barclays responded  to my provisional 
decision saying it had nothing further to add. Mrs F didnt  provide any further evidence to 
support her complaint.
By way of background to Mrs Fs complaint,  I noted the following in my provisional decision:
There is a long history to this complaint both with Barclays  and this service. I will set this out 
in detail, so that its clear  to both parties  what is being considered and why.
complaint to Barclays in 2008
The origins of Mrs Fs complaint began following an incident that took place on 7 July 2008 
(the incident). On this date, Mrs F went into a branch of Barclays  (the branch) to make  a 
withdrawal of £500 from an account  that was set up for the benefit of her daughter (the 
account). This had previously been  a Woolwich for kids savings account.  When  the 
Woolwich was taken  over by Barclays in 2007,  the account was migrated to a Barclays 
Childrens Savings Account. Mrs F was the trustee of the account.
On the day of the incident, the branch  was operating  under Barclays red alert process, 
which meant customers were being  asked  for photographic identification  such  as a passport 
or driving  licence before  funds could  be withdrawn.  This had been  prompted by a large  
number of frauds in the area.  Notably,  fraudsters had used paper driving licences as a 
means of identification  to illegally withdraw  funds. So the branch introduced  enhanced  
security measures to deal with this problem.
Mrs F was unable  to provide the required identity documents. The document  she initially 
used was a paper driving licence  shed used this as a form of identification a few days  
before in another branch of Barclays without any issue. Mrs F had other forms of 
identification, but none of them  were deemed  suitable by the branch staff. Mrs F was still 
refused the withdrawal  even after the matter  was progressed to a manager, who did have 
some discretion to authorise withdrawals without photographic identification. The matter  
quickly escalated with Mrs F becoming very upset.
Mrs F complained and Barclays sent its response  in August 2008. It said that because  of the 
enhanced security measures, it was ultimately  at the discretion of the manager as to whether 
to accept the forms of identification Mrs F produced. Barclays also noted Mrs Fs signature 
wasnt on its systems  on the day of the incident.  It didnt explain why this was but said that 
the manager mayve  had more discretion to allow a withdrawal, if the signature had been on 
file. Whilst, overall, Barclays concluded  it hadnt  made a mistake, it awarded Mrs F £150 for 
any inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN66095612Mrs F disagreed. In a letter dated  3 September 2008, she told Barclays  that she considered 
the identification documents she had should  have been accepted  by the manager. These 
included a full paper driving licence, a credit card statement, a wholesale store  membership 
card (with photo) and a membership card for a processional body (no photo). She noted that 
when she visited another Barclays branch on 4 July 2008, she was able to withdraw  cash 
from the account using just her paper driving  licence.
Mrs F brought her complaint to our service in December  2008 and our adjudicator sent his 
view on 17 April 2009. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  He said 
he was satisfied that Barclays was not unfair  or unreasonable in not authorising  the 
withdrawal as it had provided  valid reasons for this. He thought the £150  it had paid Mrs F 
was sufficient to cover  the charges  she incurred  as a result of not being  able to withdraw the 
funds.
In January 2010, Mrs F started legal  proceedings against Barclays  about  the incident  in 
2008. She claimed the branch staff had racially discriminated against her.
Our service wrote to Barclays  on 3 March 2010 to let it know  that we had completed  our 
work on the case. We enclosed a copy of the adjudicators findings from April 2009.
 
complaint to Barclays 2013
Mrs F brought a complaint  to Barclays in 2013 about the issue of the signature  not being  
uploaded following the migration of the account from Woolwich  to Barclays.  Shed 
subsequently found out the signature hadnt  been  uploaded until 22 July 2008. Mrs F wanted 
to know the reasons it wasnt uploaded  given the bank had written to her on 7 July 2007 to 
confirm the account was ready to use.
Barclays explained in its final response  letters sent to Mrs F in May 2013, that when the 
account migrated  from the Woolwich in 2007, it didnt appear that itd received her signature 
mandate. Ultimately  Barclays  couldnt  explain why Mrs F signature  didnt appear on the 
account for more than a year. Nonetheless,  Barclays didnt think  this was due to an error on 
its part, so didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mrs F referred her complaint to our service. Our service said that it wouldnt be appropriate 
to look at Mrs Fs complaint due to the ongoing  legal proceedings. Our adjudicator  explained 
that under  our rules we could  choose to dismiss a case where the subject matter  of the 
complaint has been the subject of court proceedings. Our adjudicator considered the 
issue of the signature  linked  back  to the incident  in 2008, so didnt think  we should  look at 
this latest complaint whilst  this was still ongoing.
referral to our service  in 2018
Mrs F brought her complaint to our service in early 2018. She told us that the court process 
had been finalised  and she wanted our service to look at the issues shed previously raised.  
Specially, Mrs F wanted us to look at why Barclays hadnt uploaded her signature in 2007, 
which she said denied her the opportunity to withdraw funds in 2008. In terms of redress,  
Mrs F said she would  like Barclays to apologise and compensate  me for its mal 
administration (sic), (the substantive delay to input the signature on to its system) which 
caused injustice  because in the absence of a signature I could not withdraw  funds.
Ref: DRN66095613The judgement document  provided to us by Mrs F, didnt explain the outcome of her claim  
it simply addressed the issue of costs. So our investigator dismissed  the complaint saying 
our service  wouldnt  look at the case due to the court  already considering it.
In response, Mrs F provided the full judgement (the judgement), which  she said showed  the 
court hadnt  considered the issue of the signature just the issue of racial discrimination. In 
the judgment the court found against Mrs Fs claim that the branch staff in the 2008 incident,  
had racially discriminated against her. But the issue regarding the signature wasnt 
specifically decided upon. So our service agreed to look at the merits of her complaint as the 
legal proceedings had at this point, come  to an end.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she didnt think there  
was sufficient evidence  to show that Mrs F had suffered any loss or inconvenience as a 
result of the signature  not being  uploaded.
Mrs F disagreed as the incident in the branch in 2008, demonstrated shed suffered a loss 
and inconvenience.  Notably, she said if her signature had been on file, this would have 
provided a gateway  for the manager to ask security  questions, which  in turn couldve allowed 
Mrs F to make the withdrawal. Our service  pointed to the fact that Mrs F had already had a 
view on the merits of this complaint  in 2009. Whilst Mrs F accepted this, she said our service 
hadnt allowed  her to escalate  her complaint to an ombudsman when shed started  the legal 
proceedings. So she wanted  the matter to be considered by an ombudsman now the court 
process had been  concluded.
Amongst other things, Mrs F wanted the decision to address  the following:
The reason  for the delay in uploading her signature to the banks system;
Whether shes suffered any detriment  as a consequence of the delay;
Whether Barclays is responsible for any consequential losses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I think its important to make clear that we are an informal 
dispute resolution service.  I accept  Mrs F may want answers to every question  shes asked 
but Im not required to provide answers  to everything. The issues  in this complaint are 
whether Barclays delayed uploading Mrs Fs signature to its systems and if this caused  
inconvenience and/ or financial loss to her. That is what my findings concentrate  on. Ill also 
mention at this stage  that where theres a dispute  about what happened  Ive based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities.
As Barclays have accepted my findings  and Mrs F hasnt  provided  any further evidence to 
support her case,  the reasons for my decision not to uphold  the complaint remains the same 
as that set out in my provisional  decision, which are as follows: 
Given the circumstances that gave rise to the red alert, I think it was reasonable for Barclays 
to ask Mrs F for further identification when she visited its branch in July 2008. I think banks 
and financial  institutions should be permitted a wide degree of latitude  in its attempts to 
protect their customers against fraud, which was and still is, a serious  problem for them and 
their customers. All in all, I think that Barclays  reaction was reasonable in all the 
Ref: DRN66095614circumstances of this case,  and that asking Mrs F for further identification documents  was a 
proportionate response to the issues it was facing at that time.
That said,  I can see that the Barclays branch manager did have the discretion to allow a 
customer to withdraw money  without  photographic  identity documents,  if the signature  was 
compared with that held on the banks file. If a signature was on file, this wouldve meant the 
manager could  ask Mrs F a number  of security questions and as long as she was satisfied 
with the answers,  she (the manager) could agree to the withdrawal. Mrs Fs says this is the 
crux of the issue. 
But even with a signature on file this only allowed the manager the discretion to ask Mrs F 
some security questions.  And its not clear whether this would  have meant Mrs F would have 
been allowed  to withdraw the funds. I say this because in her submissions to this service,  
the court and Barclays, Mrs F said the manager  was insisting the only suitable identification 
was photographic identification  such as a driving  licence or passport. So I cant be sure 
whether simply having the signature  on file would have meant Mrs F wouldve been able to 
withdraw funds from the account as ultimately,  it was still at the discretion of the manager.  
Mrs F says she was reassured by a letter dated  9 July 2007  sent to her by Barclays saying 
the account was ready to be used following its migration from Woolwich.  The letter  said the 
account had successfully migrated from a Woolwich for kids account to a Barclays 
Childrens Savings Account. Mrs Fs thinks Barclays letter was misleading given she wasnt  
able to use the account in branch on 7 July 2008.  Whilst  I understand where  Mrs F is coming 
from, I think the account was ready for use which  was evident from her previously 
withdrawing funds  up until that point including  on 4 July 2008  at another  branch. It was just 
that the branch she visited on 7 Jul, was operating  under enhanced security procedures.
Nonetheless, I think the delay in adding  the signature to the Barclays system did deny Mrs F 
the opportunity  to explore  another way to withdraw  funds  other  than by providing 
photographic evidence. So Ill consider whether  this warrants compensation.
financial loss
All the evidence points  to this being an account that was opened for the benefit of Mrs Fs 
daughter when she was a child  Mrs F was the trustee for the account and as such, was 
entitled to withdraw  the funds. But its worth noting a trust account should only be used for 
the benefit of the person  who the moneys held in trust for. And any funds being withdrawn 
would be done  in Mrs Fs capacity of trustee  and were separate  and distinct from her own 
personal property. 
The judgement notes that [Mrs F] was anxious  to obtain the money because she needed  
to cover cheques that had already  been drawn on her other  account  and she stood to suffer 
financial loss if she did not have the money  to pay into the relevant account in cheques.  The 
judgement goes on to say all of this wasnt known to the staff in branch. So Mrs F says that 
by not transferring her signature, which was inferred by its letter in 2007 had been done,  it 
was reasonable for Barclays to foresee this would adversely affect her. 
Mrs F says that the losses Barclays should  be liable to pay are items such  as £41 for bank 
charges, £25 charges incurred as result  of an unpaid cheque and other fees for not being 
able to pay her credit  card bill on time. Mrs F says her wholesale store membership card 
was suspended when a cheque bounced due to insufficient  funds  in her own account. And 
her credit card limit was reduced from £15,000 to £1,000. 
Ref: DRN66095615Looking at these  losses, I dont think these can be considered payments that needed to be 
made in the exercise of Mrs Fs role as trustee. Therefore, I dont think  they are reasonably 
foreseeable consequences  of Mrs F being  unable to withdraw funds from her childs savings  
account. And as noted in the judgement,  these  losses werent  known to the staff at the time 
Mrs F was seeking to withdraw the funds. I appreciate the payments Mrs F needed  to make 
would likely  be of some benefit to her daughter,  in the sense of being needed to meet  family 
and household expenditure. But I consider the losses she describes, which all involve her 
personal accounts, too remote  from her role as trustee  of a childs savings account for me to 
fairly hold Barclays responsible for them.
distress and inconvenience
I do think, however,  that the signature not being on Barclays system did cause 
inconvenience to Mrs F in her capacity  as trustee. I think this was reasonably foreseeable 
given Mrs F would need to find another way to withdraw funds on behalf of her daughter.  
Whilst I cant be sure that the signature would have meant Mrs F could withdraw funds,  she 
still needed to make other arrangements  to withdraw funds such as obtaining  new 
identification documents or visiting another branch. 
Overall, I think the compensation already paid by Barclays to Mrs F in 2008 of £150, is fair. I 
know Mrs F wants me to award  more than this, but I need to balance this by the fact that she 
was able to visit another  branch to withdraw funds if this is something  she still needed to do. 
I can see from the judgment that Mrs F was a regular visitor to another  local branch, which 
she had successfully withdrawn funds from a few days before as this branch wasnt 
operating a red alert.
I appreciate Mrs F was very distressed on the day of the incident and says she didnt  visit a 
branch for several months afterwards. The judgement notes she (Mrs F) thought anyone 
seeing the incident would have thought she was a fraudster. But I dont think asking for other 
forms of identification  would have led other customers  to this belief, particularly as many of 
them on the day would have been  asked for the same  identification as Mrs F. Further,  I think  
much of her upset was driven by the fact she thought the staff in the branch had racially 
discriminated against. Mrs F felt so strongly about  this she took legal action. In the end the 
court found  this not to be the case,  but it was still Mrs Fs belief at that time. So I dont think 
the signature not being on the account  was the main cause of Mrs Fs distress.
Mrs F says she cant remember  receiving  the £150. But in the letter  dated  7 August 2008 
Barclays said that the money had been  credited to the account. The judgement also notes it 
was paid, something that doesnt seem to have been disputed  by Mrs F to the court.  So on 
balance, whilst Mrs F may not remember receiving the payment possibly due to the passage 
of time, Im satisfied Barclays have  paid it.
I know Mrs F wants a definitive answer of how her signature happened  to be uploaded  on 
22 July 2008.  Shes  unsatisfied  with the explanations Barclays has provided, which  was 
referred to in the investigators view sent in 2019. She thinks that her signature being  
uploaded when it was, may have been the result of fraud. I appreciate  it is disappointing  not 
know the exact reasons for the delay but overall,  I think Barclays have provided reasonable 
explanations as to why this may have  happened. I wont  be asking it to do anything further in 
this regard. 
Ref: DRN66095616For all these reasons, whilst  I appreciate  Mrs F will be disappointed with this outcome, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint as I consider the compensation of £150 already paid to Mrs F by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2021.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6609561