complaint
Mrs P, represented by her daughter Mrs R, complains that Openwork Limited ('Openwork') 
gave unsuitable  advice to buy an Immediate Care  Needs annuity (the annuity).
Mrs P is suffering from dementia and needs to be looked after in a care home. The objective  of 
Mrs Ps family when they consulted Openwork on her behalf was to pay for Mrs P's care home 
fees through the most  advantageous combination of her own financial resources and any 
available local authority funding (LA funding).
Openwork recommended  that she establish an annuity the income  from which,  when combined 
with the LA funding was designed to meet the cost of the care home  fees.
As a result of Openworks  recommendation, Mrs P bought the annuity  for approximately 
£162,000. However,  the local authority declined Mrs P's application  for it to part fund her care 
home fees. It did so because it said it had to take into account Mrs P's annuity income which  
took her income  above the limit for it to contribute to Mrs P's care home fees.
Mrs R, on behalf of Mrs P, has complained that the recommendation to buy the annuity was 
unsuitable as it was inconsistent with the intention that Mrs P would secure LA funding  towards  
her care fees and prevented her being  suitable to receive such funding. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 15th February  2019. A copy  is attached.  It informs  my final 
decision in respect  of the background to this complaint. My provisional decision gives a 
narrative summary of how this complaint has evolved prior to further  exchanges in response to 
the issue of redress  which is appropriate  in this case and described in more  detail  below. 
Neither party has disputed the background.
The outstanding matter, which I address in more detail below, is the question of redress and 
how it should be calculated. Both parties made  further submissions  about  this discrete issue in 
response to my provisional  decision.
In responding  to my provisional decision, Openwork questioned (as it had previously) whether 
the source of funds  used to open an account with AA in the late Mr Ps sole name  and from 
which he then made the loan to Mrs P to buy the annuity, was a sole asset  of Mr P or whether 
it came  from joint assets of Mr and Mrs P. 
In short,  its concern was that if those funds came  from funds owned by the late Mr P and his 
wife jointly, by way of a joint bank account, then this would impact  the amount of Mrs Ps 
personal financial resources when she obtained  the annuity and should  be taken into account  
when calculating the amount of redress that she is awarded. 
This service had since April 2016,  repeatedly raised  with Mrs Ps representative the question  of 
whether Mrs P had joint ownership with Mr P of the monies invested in his AA account which 
had been recorded in June 2014 as a joint asset worth £154,000. Mrs Ps representatives had 
adopted the position that this record was mistaken  and the monies were solely owned by Mr P. 
However, as a result of continuing lack of evidence of the source of the monies on the AA 
account, I asked  our adjudicator to approach the bank and Mrs R to see if they could provide 
evidence of who held the funds in the account from which the AA account was funded. 
Mrs R agreed  to approach  the bank and our adjudicator confirmed that we would make our 
own enquiries of the bank  to see if the source of these funds could be established.
In May 2019  it transpired that the AA account had been funded from a bank account held in the 
joint names of Mr and Mrs P. This was contrary to the information previously provided, so I 
asked Mrs Ps representatives for further  information  about the reason for the transfer  from 
joint names to the sole name of Mr P and evidence such  as tax returns  as to the beneficial  
Ref: DRN6865438ownership of the monies. Ultimately, as described below, Mrs Ps representatives  chose, 
having sought legal advice, not to answer my enquiries.
Mrs R meanwhile has provided  a further  submission from her legal representative. It did not 
address the source of funds referred  to above in respect of the enquiries  of the bank  Mrs R 
had previously made.
The submission on Mrs Ps behalf did though make several substantive points. 
First, it said that Openworks questioning of the source of funds effectively amounted to an 
accusation by it of deprivation of assets by Mrs P. In other words, that she was guilty of 
deliberately alienating assets in order to improve her prospects of obtaining  financial  support 
from the local authority.  
Mrs Rs legal representative  pointed  out that to substantiate an accusation of Deprivation of 
Assets so that a local authority takes  account  of alienated assets when evaluating the capital 
resources of an applicant  requires a high evidential test to be met.
Secondly, he said that the continuing  care financial contribution from the NHS  for Mrs Ps 
ongoing care costs was not relevant in assessing  redress for the unsuitable advice  from 
Openwork to buy the care annuity.
He concluded  that although  he acknowledged  he had not read the full detail of the redress 
solution in my provisional decision, he thought it complex and difficult to follow.  
Mrs R added that as it was considered my proposed redress  solution was complex  and difficult  
to follow, as a result,  accessible justice  was potentially  being denied to her mother.
In light of these  comments, I wrote  to both parties setting out an alternative redress  formula  
which I hoped would  be more transparent  and less complex. In doing so, I gave both parties an 
indicative provisional current value  for the annuity which  I pointed  out was subject to Mrs Ps 
then state of health. Mrs R responded to this revised  redress proposal and my request for 
medical evidence  to the effect that Mrs P was in very poor health but without providing medical 
evidence or details.
In the event, Mrs R eventually confirmed that she was not willing to provide the further 
information necessary  for Openwork to calculate redress  as set out in my revised proposal. In 
particular, Mrs R said her mothers health was very frail. I inferred from Mrs Rs comments that 
it would  not be fair or reasonable to expect  Mrs P to undergo a medical assessment in order  to 
provide a credible  basis on which to establish  the current  value of her annuity.
I am grateful for the further submissions from both parties to this longstanding and complex 
complaint. I have though decided that to bring this complaint to a resolution I consider fair and 
reasonable, I now have sufficient  evidence and submissions to issue a final decision.
I say this because  Openwork  has previously acknowledged its advice to buy the annuity  was 
unsuitable. It has only questioned the basis on which redress should be calculated. That is also 
the case in respect  of Mrs Ps representatives  submissions following my provisional decision 
and my subsequent  revised redress proposal.
Accordingly, determining  a fair and reasonable calculation  of redress is the focus of my final 
decision although I do comment on the submissions from both parties to my provisional 
decision where I think these are relevant to my redress solution.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN6865438For the avoidance of doubt, I emphasise  that I am obliged  under this services remit to decide 
the outcome of complaints on the basis of what I consider fair and reasonable having taken 
account of all the circumstances and the evidence provided by all parties.
Whilst I am obliged to take account of relevant law in reaching my decision, I am not obliged  to 
follow it. This service is an informal dispute  resolution service. We are an alternative to the 
courts, not a substitute for them. 
The redress  in this case is complex because it reflects the complex  circumstances of this 
complaint. I do not agree  that in these circumstances, accessible justice is being denied  to 
Mrs P particularly as, following my provisional decision and having taken account  of the 
submissions from Mrs Ps representatives,  I proposed a simplified redress solution albeit this 
was not accepted by Mrs Ps representatives.
I have carefully reflected  on the submissions in response to my provisional decision and 
subsequent exchanges with both parties. These principally concerned redress  and its method  
of calculation.
Mrs R, in an email  of 15th October 2019, said:
your suggested current value of the annuity  seems  likely to hugely detract  from the value of any 
compensation which is also  an unfair approach. Our mother is aged 82 and in poor health,  so 
logically the annuity should not  be worth  much. She has  been  on CHC now for over two years and at 
our last meeting  the CHC  doctor described her as  very  frail  indicating that even the most minor 
ailment could now prove fatal.
I concluded it would not be appropriate  to subject Mrs P to a necessarily intrusive medical 
examination. I therefore formulated an alternative redress proposal.  It dispensed  with the need  
to establish the current  value of Mrs Ps annuity. 
I wrote  to both parties setting out my revised  proposal. In summary, I said that the normal 
practice of this service  when determining any financial  loss is to quantify  that loss once and for 
all, using whatever  estimates and valuations are necessary to arrive at an all-inclusive figure 
for redress.  But because  of the unique circumstances of this case, I am unable to apply our 
normal approach.  
 
Rather, in fairness  to the parties, I proposed to make a direction to compensate  Mrs Ps estate 
for the loss (if any) she will have suffered when she dies.   This is fair to Mrs P, because  the 
alternative I would  otherwise favour  (given  the absence of detailed  information about Mrs Ps 
health) would be to conclude  she is unlikely  to have suffered a loss. 
That is because,  based on normal market annuity prices for a person of her age, living  in care,  
and taking into account the money she has received from the annuity I did not think  there 
would be any loss to compensate.  I also said it is fair to Openwork, because it means it will 
have to pay, and pay only, Mrs Ps eventual loss (if any). 
I am satisfied that my further  revised redress proposal which  sets out the form and amount of 
redress Openwork is to pay will provide fair and reasonable compensation for Mrs P. This will 
be payable to her estate if she dies before the annuity payments have continued  for a long 
time to have  made  the annuity profitable  for her.
Both parties  indicated that in principle, they were content with my revised proposal. 
Mindful of Mrs Rs comments  reiterated in her email of 15th October of her difficulty  in 
accepting a redress formula without  monetary values included,  I incorporated monetary values  
in my revised formula. These values reflect information previously provided to this service by 
Mrs R.
Ref: DRN6865438In calculating Mrs Ps loss as a result of buying  the annuity there  is one further matter to be 
addressed. It is that Mrs Ps representatives have said that her entire capital when she bought 
the annuity was £95,000, whereas  Openwork  has pointed to the fact (as has eventually  
emerged during  the course of my investigation) that Mr and Mrs P held a valuable joint account 
which was used in October 2013, just six months before Mrs Ps family consulted  a different 
financial adviser in April 2014 about funding  her care, to finance  an AA account in Mr Ps sole 
name. 
 As Mrs P had by that date suffered from dementia for several years, it seems unlikely that any 
change in ownership of the joint account monies  can have been intended, or agreed to, by her 
when this took place.  Moreover,  the AA account funds were described as jointly  owned  in the 
report by the different  financial  adviser  which was sent out in June 2014.
In attempting  to resolve this matter, I asked Mrs Ps representatives for any evidence, such  as 
the late Mr P and Mrs Ps tax returns and evidence of Mrs Ps banking  arrangements at the 
time, to show whether  the funds in the joint account  which were  moved  to the AA account 
should be regarded  as wholly the late Mr Ps or jointly owned by the late Mr P and Mrs P.
Mrs R initially  indicated she was willing to provide this information. She subsequently 
confirmed that she had received information  from HMRC but only in respect of one 
(unspecified) account holder but was pursuing with HMRC details of the other account holder.
However, in her email  of 15th October  2019, Mrs R said that she was not willing to provide this 
service with the information  she had received or with any other details in respect of this 
discrete matter.
In these circumstances I have concluded that in the absence of any persuasive evidence  to 
show otherwise, the funds  held in Mr Ps name in the AA account  should be assumed to have 
been held by him on behalf of Mr P and Mrs P jointly. 
The methodology for calculating redress
The redress  to which Mrs P ought fairly and reasonably to be entitled should reflect the 
difference between  the position that she is in having purchased  the annuity and the position 
she would  have been in if she had received suitable  advice  from Openwork. The suitable 
advice would have  been that she expend her own resources rather  than applying these to buy 
the annuity and apply  for LA funding when her capital and income were beneath the levels at 
which such funding could  be available to her.
On that basis, Mrs Ps present loss (which  includes  losses she has funded  by borrowing more 
from family lenders than would have been the case without the annuity) can be expressed as 
follows:
A + B + I  C  D
Where:
A is the cost of the annuity
B is the total local authority funding which Mrs P would have received if she had been properly 
advised 
I is the interest that Mrs P would have  received  on her depleting  capital as it was applied  
towards her care home fees
C is the annuity payments so far received and
D is the present  capital  value of the annuity.
Ref: DRN6865438But I have concluded  that it is not possible to implement this formula fairly in the present 
circumstances because  of the difficulty of ascertaining the present capital value  of the annuity 
as in D.
In the absence of detailed  medical evidence, my view now is that the fairest course is to 
ascertain the amount by which Mrs P is currently out of pocket without seeking to place a 
capital value on the annuity  and to direct that future  annuity income  be counted  against  that 
deficit and that the amount of the ultimate  deficit,  if any, be paid to her estate following her 
death. This avoids the need  to place a current value on the annuity.
Using that methodology Mrs Ps present deficit, disregarding the capital value of the annuity,  
her February 2020 cash-flow deficit can be expressed as:
A + B + I  C
And the amount to be paid to Mrs Ps personal  representatives following  her death is her 
February 2020 cash-flow deficit, calculated as shown above, reduced  by the annuity income 
she receives hereafter.
So, in order to put figures into that calculation, it is necessary to quantify  each  of A,B, I and C.
Quantifying A
A is the cost of the annuity: £162,289.
Quantifying B
B is the total LA funding which Mrs P would  have received if she had been suitably advised by 
Openwork.  The  amount  of this funding potentially  depends on its duration and rate.
As regards  duration, LA funding would have ceased  when Mrs P started to receive continuing 
healthcare funding, as she did on 5 July 2017.
The question therefore is when LA funding would have started.  Mrs  Ps representatives  have 
stated that the £23,000 capital threshold would have been reached, and LA funding  would  
have commenced,  on 17 February 2016.  That was on the basis that her starting capital  was 
£95,000, and would  have depleted at £880 per week,  reaching £23,000 in 71 weeks.
However, that calculation  is (in my view,  incorrectly) based upon Mrs P having no interest  in an 
AA savings account which was recorded  in June 2014 as standing at £154,000.  As noted 
above, I am persuaded the AA saving account  (although held in Mr Ps sole name)  had been  
funded from monies  standing  to the credit  of Mr and Mrs Ps joint account.  
I consider that those  monies were  most  likely to have been  a joint asset of Mr and Mrs P when 
they were held in their joint names and I have  been provided with no evidence that Mrs P 
agreed, or even (given her dementia) that she would have been capable  of agreeing to 
relinquish her joint ownership  of those monies  when  they were moved into the AA account.
In those circumstances, I consider that it is fair and reasonable to regard Mrs P as having  at 
least an equal right with her husband to that money, and that this gave her an additional  
£77,000 of capital or, looking  at what I regard as fair and reasonable, to have given her access 
to that amount of money which she ought  to have been applied towards her own care. So the 
additional sum of £77,000  should  have been  applied to her care and would need to have been  
run down before LA funding  became available to her.  
The additional capital  would have run down at a faster rate than the £95,000  already  
mentioned, because the care homes fees rose by £43 per week on 1 April 2016 and by a 
further £40 per week on 1 April 2017.  So, the additional capital would have been diminished 
Ref: DRN6865438by £5,280 by end March  2016, and by £53,276 by end March  2017.  It would have been 
exhausted 25 weeks later, that is by 21 September 2017.
So, Mrs P would still have  had more than the threshold amount of capital for LA funding  in July 
2017 when she started  to receive continuing healthcare funding.  For that reason, if Mrs P had 
used her sole and joint capital in the manner that I regard as fair and reasonable to have 
expected, Mrs P would  not have received LA funding. 
And so the value  of B is zero. 
Quantifying I
I is the interest that Mrs P would have  received  on her depleting  capital as it was applied  
towards her care home fees. 
 
This item represents  the cost to Mrs P in lost interest of having parted with £95,000 of her 
solely owned capital  by purchasing the annuity  in October 2014, as opposed to applying that 
capital more gradually towards the payment of her care home fees.   That would have taken 
approximately 2 years.  
Assuming Mrs P could have earned  interest  at the time at the rate of 2.5%  p.a.  I estimate the 
value of I to be £1,200.  
Quantifying C 
C is the total annuity payments so far received.  These started in November 2014 at a rate of 
£20,973 per annum. They rise with the Retail Price Index. 
Applying the annual RPI increments starting each successive November, I estimate that the 
annuity has yielded approximately  the following amounts: 
period (y/e) payments (£)
Oct 2015 20,973
Oct 2016 21,193
Oct 2017 21,657
Oct 2018 22,497
Oct 2019 23,214
        Sub-Total    = 109,534
Period Nov 2019 to end Feb 2020  =   7,920
                                        Total (C) = £117,454                   
Mrs Ps February 2020  cash-flow  deficit
Applying those values to calculate Mrs Ps February 2020 cash-flow deficit (i.e. A + B + I  C) 
gives:
£162,289 + £0 + £1,200 - £117,454 = £46,035.
On that basis, I think that it is fair and reasonable to regard Mrs P as out of pocket by £46,035  
on 1 March 2020 on a cash-flow basis, i.e. without taking account of the fact that she has the 
continuing benefit of the annuity. 
Continuing income  from the annuity
Ref: DRN6865438As a result of the annuity increasing with RPI, I expect this years  annuity payments to amount 
to approximately  £23,780, or about £1,980 per month. 
So, for as long as she lives, Mrs Ps cash-flow deficit should  diminish  at a rate of approximately  
£1,980 per month, so that, if she survives that long,  it will be extinguished  after 24 months  (i.e. 
at end February 2022). After that point, Mrs P will move into profit from having invested  in the 
annuity.  This may occur  slightly sooner than that, if the RPI rises significantly,  but that cannot 
be known and is not a matter that I propose  to take into account.
I sent my revised proposal, based  on the formula and calculations  above, to both Openwork 
and Mrs Ps representatives. At the time, the cash flow deficit was approximately £55,000. My 
calculations above  are adjusted to take account of the passage of time between receiving Mrs 
Ps representatives and Openworks responses to my proposal  and the date of my decision 
here.
In my revised redress formula and calculations,  I also proposed  that in order  to secure 
Openworks payment to the estate  of its ultimate liability, it be required to deposit the present 
amount of the deficit in a special trust account for Mrs Ps benefit from which Openwork can 
only withdraw monies to the extent that its liability diminishes as a result of Mrs Ps future 
receipt of annuity  payments. 
Openwork accepted my revised proposal.  Mrs R, on behalf of Mrs P, accepted my revised 
proposal in principle but made a number  of additional points. In summary, she said:
1. We are in a position  to agree to the FO's formula  now that it has been fleshed out with 
actual figures  subject to what  we consider to be qualifications  and amendments  which  
are, in the context,  minor  in value but important  in principle  and in relation  to the 
outcome.
2. We think that interest  on the award should  be added at the rate of 8% in accordance with 
the FOS website narrative indicating that "in most cases, we think a rate of 8% simple  per year 
is appropriate to reflect the cost of being  deprived  of money in the past".  Clearly  our mother  
was deprived of a large lump sum from October  2014.
3. Unless we have misunderstood,  it appears that the FO has omitted  to allocate interest in 
the future  on the £55,000  element of monies due to our mother  as otherwise  the cash  flow 
deficit will diminish  in real terms as time goes on.
4. We require  confirmation,  that the policy will remain  active until our mother's  death, in 
the event that she outlives the drawing  down of the remaining  £55,000.
5. The drawing down should be capped at £55,000. Any interest  accumulated  should  be 
paid out to our mother or her estate, whichever is appropriate.
6. The cost of the policy included commission of £5488.04. The commission was earned on a 
wholly unsuitable product  that provided  no benefit  to our mother and regardless of any 
other calculations, it should  be returned  immediately  with 8% interest.
7. The attitude  of the FO to legal costs remains misguided and is harsh.  From memory,  we 
believe we have conceded  that it was our choice to employ  the services  of Senior Counsel 
to draft the initial complaint  to ensure clarity  for the FOS in relation  to issues.  To be clear, 
we do NOT  seek to recover his costs  in relation  to the settling and filing of the complaint.  
However, matters immediately  spiralled into a melee of confusion,
misunderstanding  and misinterpretation  of the claim by the FOS.  This is clearly  evident 
from the tortuous  route and time it has taken  to reach this stage. We received more than 
one PD clearly stating that no fault lay with the business and it has taken just over four 
years to reach the stage of proposals  being  made to settle the claim, during which  time 
the FOS admitted  (27 March 2017) that it had failed utterly  to grasp the issues , made 
Ref: DRN6865438mistakes, caused a ridiculous  delay and required  to take its own legal  advice. We cannot  
agree that we could or should have been expected to deal with the claim without legal 
assistance whilst the FOS employed  the many resources of a large organisation and expected  
us, two housewives  working at our kitchen tables, albeit with professional  backgrounds, to deal 
unsupported.  In the event  that we are not awarded  costs, we shall be making efforts  to 
recover these against the FOS directly after settlement  of the claim. Our claim for costs is 
more than reasonable in the context  of the conduct of the claim and we urge the FO to do 
the decent and fair 'thing'  against  the backdrop of the statement  on the FOS website 
("Costs awards  aren't  common,  but we need to think  about what's  fair in each individual  
case")  and include these in the award.
8. The attitude  of the FO to a 'distress'  payment  is also harsh and heartless . We have dealt 
with matters on behalf of our mother. The compensation  payment  is not for my sister and me. 
We are mere representatives. 
It was open to the business to settle this claim years ago. Our mother must surely  fit the 
description of a complainant who has been affected 'practically' and 'financially'  been caused 
'inconvenience' ie the work and effort necessary to reach where  we are today vis a vis a 
decision in her favour regardless. 
I have  carefully  reflected  on these  comments  from Mrs R. I respond  to each  as follows.
Mrs R makes three separate claims for interest under her points 2, 3 and 5. Respectively these 
are  enhanced interest (i.e. at 8%) on the capital  cost of the annuity, unspecified future  interest 
on the present  cash-flow deficit (which was £55,000 and is now £46,035) and payment of any 
interest on the blocked account to Mrs P or her estate irrespective of whether any other monies  
become due under the redress  direction.  
I cannot agree with these claims to interest  because I do not think they take into account the 
rationale for my decision, which is to indemnify Mrs P against  suffering a loss rather  than to 
provide financial  compensation for any existing  loss which has not yet been established she 
has yet suffered. My detailed reasoning  is:
a.I have provided for a realistic rate of return on Mrs Ps initial  cash outlay in purchasing 
the annuity. This has been selected and applied to compensate  Mrs P for the fact that 
she depleted her capital more quickly buying  the annuity  than she would have applying 
her capital  to care home fees.    Mrs R suggests a higher  rate of 8% should be applied 
because the Service  can award this where a complainant has been  deprived of money 
in the past. But Mrs Ps initial cash outlay is not equivalent to her having  been deprived 
of money (i.e. suffering  a financial  loss)  in the amount of the cash  outlay because the 
cash was used  to purchase a valuable asset (the annuity).   
b.The present  cash  flow deficit of £46,035 is likewise not a financial loss which should 
attract interest in Mrs Ps favour.  If I were forced to estimate her loss today, it would be 
zero, because the annuitys value is likely to exceed  £46,035.   The direction I make in 
Mrs Ps favour is intended to forestall  the risk of loss, which  will only eventuate if Mrs P 
dies relatively soon.   To add 8% interest to one aspect of the calculation  upon which 
the direction is based (the present cash-flow  deficit) would distort  the calculation 
because that element  of the calculation  is not Mrs Ps loss (she still enjoys a valuable  
capital asset,  the annuity, which might if valued  be worth  considerably  more). 
c.To require any interest  that may accrue on the trust account  to be paid to Mrs R is 
unjustified. The trust account arrangement is security for Openworks  compliance with 
its payment obligation, nothing more.   It is not intended to result  in additional payments 
beyond the sum (if any) that may be required under the directions formula.
4.  The policy provider  has not been party to this complaint. Its obligations are not affected by 
the proposed  direction. 
Ref: DRN68654386.            The idea of separating out the commission paid for acquiring the annuity from the 
amount paid to the annuity  provider  is contrary  to the basis for the proposed redress direction.  
The direction  gives Mrs P credit for all her factual cash  outflows (including her payment of 
commission) and deducts all her factual receipts,  present and, if and when they may arise,  
future.   To award  her the commission  separately  would  either  doubly compensate her for that 
element, if her estate  receives a pay out under the direction,  or pay her compensation  in a 
respect of an annuity from which (taking account  of the commission she paid for it) she will 
have actually made a profit, if she survives  the period to which the direction applies. So I 
cannot agree with this suggestion. 
8.   Mrs R has not identified any distress or inconvenience suffered by the complainant, Mrs P.  
Our power  to award redress for distress and inconvenience arises  under s.229(2) FSMA, 
which says that the ombudsmans determination  of a complaint may include 
 an award against the respondent of such amount as the ombudsman considers  fair 
compensation for loss or damage  suffered by the complainant.
Mrs Rs argument is that Mrs P should  be compensated for the work and effort that has been 
put in to advance her complaint. I understand  this to mean that those who have represented  
Mrs P have suffered  distress and inconvenience  and that this has occurred because they have 
dealt with the complaint on her behalf.   
Whilst I do not in any way minimise the time and effort expended by her representatives in 
pursuing Mrs Ps complaint, I have not seen evidence to persuade me that Mrs P, the 
complainant, has suffered  distress or inconvenience from the purchase of the annuity, in first 
making her complaint  to Openwork, or from its referral to this service.
The difficulty  is that loss and damage  suffered by those  representing  the complainant is 
outside s229(2).  The effect of this is that I lack the authority to award compensation for it.
I have therefore  concluded that under our rules, it is not open to me to direct  Openwork to 
make a further payment in respect  of distress and inconvenience.
7.  Mrs R has again reiterated that the legal costs incurred in bringing this complaint should be 
reimbursed as part of my redress determination.
But our general approach  is that legal representation is not necessary for a complainant  to 
refer their complaint  to this service. Legal representations were  made  by Mrs R on behalf of 
Mrs P when first bringing her complaint to this service. There was a further submission from 
Mrs Rs legal representative  in respect  of deprivation  of assets  and an earlier  proposed redress 
solution.
But this service is free to consumers. Legal  representation  is not a prerequisite. Mrs R made  
her own decision to take legal advice. Although complex in nature,  I do not consider the 
matters at issue here required legal representation to bring them to this service.  I am not 
persuaded to change  my earlier expressed  view that it would not be reasonable to hold either  
this service or Openwork responsible for the legal costs Mrs R says she has incurred in 
bringing her complaint to this service  or in managing its progression whilst being  considered  by 
this service, notwithstanding that because of its unique circumstances, it has taken a 
considerable time to reach a final resolution.  
I do not accept Mrs Rs characterisation of the progress  of this complaint whilst  at this service.  
Mrs Ps circumstances changed during the progression of this complaint;  further  evidence  
which I asked for took time to be produced; Mrs R changed her mind about the suitability of an 
earlier redress proposal which I put forward; there  was conflicting evidence  about Mr and Mrs 
Ps assets;  and in view of Mrs Ps frail health, it was necessary  to reformulate my approach  to 
suitable redress whilst reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome for all partys to this complaint.
Ref: DRN6865438None of that though detracts  from my conclusion that Mrs P was poorly advised by Openwork 
Limited and so should be redressed for that poor advice.
In conclusion, I direct Openwork Limited to pay to Mrs Ps personal representatives following 
her death  the sum, which is to be calculated by reference to the number (N) of complete 
calendar months that Mrs P survives after 1 March 2020:
£46,035 minus (N x £1,980)
I also direct  that in order to secure  Openworks compliance with the above direction, it must 
open a trust account for the benefit of Mrs P and pay into it the sum of £46,035  from which,  
until it is informed of Mrs Ps death, it may withdraw  for itself a sum of £1,980 per month.  
But in order to create a reasonable buffer, such withdrawals are not to commence  before  31 
May 2020. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Openwork Limited  must compensate Mrs P in accordance with the directions  I have  set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R, on behalf of 
Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
                                
Terry Connor
ombudsman                          
Ref: DRN6865438Provisional Decision  
complaint
Mrs P, represented by her daughter Mrs R, complains  that Openwork  Limited  (Openwork) gave 
unsuitable advice to buy an Immediate Care  Needs  annuity (ICN).
The objective  was to pay for Mrs Ps care home fees through the most  advantageous combination  of her 
own financial  resources and any available local authority funding. Openwork recommended that she 
establish an annuity  this, combined with the local authority funding, was designed  to meet the cost of 
the care home fees.
But having bought the annuity, the local authority then declined Mrs Ps application for it to part fund her 
care home  fees.  It did so because it said it had to take into account  Mrs Ps annuity income which took 
her income  above the income  limit for it to contribute to Mrs Ps care home fees.
background
In May 2014  Mrs P became resident in a care home. The fees were £880 a week, which  was around 
twice the standard funding the local authority would  provide.
According to the records made at the time of the advice, Mrs P had savings of in excess of
£90,000 which meant she wasnt eligible for local authority help. The local authority  limit for such  funding  
was then approximately  £23,000.
Mrs R and her brother sought financial advice from Openwork on behalf of Mrs P. Its advice was then 
discussed amongst Mrs Ps family, including her husband, the late Mr P.
Openwork advised the family to buy an annuity on Mrs Ps behalf.  It was to be funded from Mrs Ps 
savings and a loan from her husband of the amount needed to cover the capital cost of the annuity, less 
Mrs Ps savings. The amount to be invested in the annuity was calculated  so that it would produce 
enough to bridge the gap between the care home fees and the standard  local authority funding.
The capital cost of the annuity was £162,289. At the time of advice, it generated an annual  income  of 
£20,973, increasing annually in line with increases, if any, in the Retail  Price Index.
Openwork advised the family that by buying the annuity Mrs Ps capital would be reduced to below  the 
capital threshold for local authority funding. However, once the annuity was in place it became clear that 
this plan was flawed.
Mrs R said that this was because the local authority  took into account  Mrs Ps total income  from the 
annuity when assessing  her entitlement to funding. It said that as Mrs Ps annuity income was £403.33 
per week, her pension income was £70.76 per week and her Attendance  Allowance was £81.30 per 
week, Mrs Ps income was above the threshold for local authority funding. This has meant her late 
husband had to pay the shortfall in fees (the difference between the total cost and the amount generated 
from the annuity)  from his savings.
When Mrs P complained to Openwork, it upheld  her complaint but said it wasnt wholly responsible for 
the advice. This was because, having advised Mrs P (represented by Mrs R and her brother)  of the 
overall strategy, it referred them to another, albeit related, business to establish  the annuity. 
But it offered  £2,000 by way of settlement for those  aspects of the advice for which it accepted 
responsibility
Ref: DRN6865438first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision I explained that I was satisfied that Openwork Limited was responsible for 
the advice to buy an annuity.  But I said that I didnt think I could look at the reasons for taking out the 
annuity  to redistribute Mrs Ps assets so that she became eligible for funding  because that wasnt a 
regulated activity.
And I didnt think the annuity  was intrinsically unsuitable, or that Mrs P had necessarily  suffered a loss by 
taking out the annuity. So my first provisional  decision was not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs R, on behalf of Mrs P, didnt agree with my decision and made further comments. In summary  she 
maintained the annuity  was unsuitable because it didnt, and couldnt have,  achieved the objective of 
topping-up the care home fees after the usual  contribution made by the local authority.
Mrs R also explained why she thought Openworks  advice had effectively rendered Mrs Ps income 
permanently over the threshold  for local authority support  and so caused a continuing loss of some £400 
a week.
second provisional  decision
On reflection, I agreed that Openwork was liable for the loss that has been incurred by Mrs P as a result 
of establishing the annuity.  I issued a further provisional decision  to that effect and set out a formula for it 
to calculate redress.
In summary, I concluded that Openwork  was wholly responsible  for the unsuitable  advice to buy an ICN. 
I said that suitable  advice would have been for Mrs P to have  depleted her capital by paying her care 
home fees from it.
At the point her capital was depleted to a level below the local authority threshold,  she would then have 
been eligible  for local authority funding.  But the permanent income from the annuity denied Mrs P, under 
existing provisions,  the opportunity to benefit from local authority funding and so Mrs P should be 
compensated for this.
Further representations were made by Mrs R. In summary, Mrs R reiterated that her father,  Mr P, should 
also be treated as an eligible  complainant.  In view of the continuing uncertainty of the quantum  of 
suitable redress, Mrs R suggested an actuary should calculate  this.
Meanwhile, Mrs R said it would be appropriate  for Openwork to make a significant  interim payment  
whilst final redress was calculated. Mrs R also asked that the legal costs incurred  by her family  in 
bringing this complaint should be included in the final redress payment.
Openwork also made a further submission. It queried  the source of funds used by Mrs P to buy the 
annuity. It referred to earlier advice to Mrs R and her family from a previous adviser which it said should 
be taken into account in determining the outcome of this complaint.
Mrs R also explained why she thought Openworks  advice had effectively rendered Mrs Ps income 
permanently over the threshold  for local authority support  and so caused a continuing loss of some £400 
a week.
Ref: DRN6865438third provisional  decision
I issued a further provisional  decision  because the formula for redress set out in the second provisional 
decision had to be revisited. It was confirmed that the annuity could not be unwound or reassigned,  and 
I responded to both parties comments.
In it, I set out why I was not persuaded that Mr P was an eligible complainant but stressed this issue had 
no material  bearing  on redress. I explained I had no power to compel  Openwork to make an interim 
payment and that, as this service is free to complainants,  I did not think  it reasonable to reimburse the 
legal costs  voluntarily incurred by Mrs P and her family.
I also explained why I was not persuaded  by Openworks  argument that advice from a previous adviser 
was relevant and why I was satisfied that Mrs P had funded  the annuity cost from her own resources 
and a loan from her late husbands own resources.
Further submissions have been  made by both parties. These  essentially reiterated previously  stated 
positions which,  in my view, I have addressed in my earlier provisional decisions.
In order  to resolve this complaint I have set out below how I think a fair and reasonable resolution can 
now be achieved.
my findings
I have carefully considered  all the available  evidence and arguments,  including the responses from both 
parties to my earlier provisional decisions, in deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
The basis of my decision is that the advice  from Openwork to buy the annuity  was unsuitable. It did not 
meet the stated objective. Openwork accepts that its advice that led to the purchase of an annuity by 
Mrs P was unsuitable.  It accepted this in response to the original complaint.
In its Final Response letter of 13 October 2015 to Mrs R, Openwork said:
.I do acknowledge that you did receive emails  on 17 July 2014 and 11 December 2014 from 
(Openwork adviser) and that these emails did suggest that if an annuity was purchased (Mrs P) was 
likely to obtain  (local authority) funding for her long term care. .I feel it is right to conclude that you 
were entitled  to rely upon these emails.
Openwork has not sought subsequently, in response to my provisional decisions,  to amend or reverse 
its admission that its advice  was unsuitable.
It follows that the principal  focus of my decision here concerns a fair and reasonable redress solution. 
However, for completeness, Ill address the points made by both parties  in response to my provisional 
decisions where appropriate  to do so.
the source of funds to buy the annuity.
In response to my second provisional decision Openwork said as it was being asked to redress Mrs P 
for loan amounts it wanted  evidence of the source of the funds to buy the annuity. It wanted to be 
confident that it was not joint capital and that Mrs Ps resources had been correctly  recorded. It also 
asked for evidence of the loan agreement.
It also queried why I concluded that suitable advice  would have been to meet Mrs Ps care home  fees by 
gradual depletion of her assets rather than the purchase of an annuity.
It said of this that there comes a point when  the assets have been fully depleted  such  that the Local  
Authority funding  alone  becomes insufficient for the client to remain at (care home). If an annuity is 
purchased and an arrangement  made with (care home), the client remains at (care home)  for the rest of 
her life.
Ref: DRN6865438Openwork has made similar points in representations made since my third provisional decision, 
including as to whether the loan from Mr P was from his own assets or from assets jointly  held with Mrs 
P.
I understand from Mrs R that there is no documentation to verify the details of the loan but my decision  
is influenced by documentation available from the time of the original advice.
An email from Openwork to Mrs R on 17 July 2014 said Another option that could be considered  is 
instead of your father paying the money from his own funds, he could lend the money  to (Mrs P) with the 
money repayable  from her estate. The loan could  then be deducted from her share  of the house after 
death.
The same  email continued:  If additional capital is required in future to fund the proportion of care that is 
not being  paid by an insurance company and the (Local Authority)  further loans could be advanced  by 
(Mr P) as required.
It further  said ..regarding  a loan from  (Mr P) to (Mrs  P). Such  a loan could  be used  to 
purchase  a care plan.
In my view,  this is persuasive evidence that a loan was made to Mrs P by her late husband. I appreciate  
Openwork says that prior to it advising  Mrs P another financial  adviser appears to have been given 
information which suggests the loan may actually have  come from a reorganisation  of Mr and Mrs Ps 
joint assets and thus wasnt a loan in the accepted  sense. This relates  to the question  of whether  money  
was held in a particular account held jointly  by Mr and Mrs P, or solely in Mr Ps name.
My view is that Openwork advised Mrs P on the basis that a loan would  be made  to her by her late 
husband and that it did so because Mrs P did not have  sufficient capital in her own right to buy the 
annuity. I have not seen evidence to persuade me that Mrs P effectively borrowed money from assets 
held jointly with her late husband.
In any event, as I set out above, documentation prepared  by the Openwork adviser at the time of advice  
indicates that she was satisfied Mrs P had insufficient resources of her own to buy the annuity and so 
would have to borrow money from Mr P to fund the shortfall.
In those circumstances, I do not think it fair or reasonable of Openwork to now seek to retrospectively 
challenge a position  its adviser was content with at the time of advice.
So from the evidence  I have seen, taking account of the above but also further information as provided 
by Mrs R to show that her late father had, in fact, lent Mrs P funds  to purchase the annuity from his own 
capital, I am satisfied Mrs P funded  the annuity with a necessary loan from her late husband and so 
created a debt to him.
Accordingly, I have concluded that redress should take account of that loan in calculating any loss.
Ref: DRN6865438K821x#15the effect of establishing the annuity
In respect of its second  point, the fact is that the annuity income alone did not   meet  the full cost of 
Mrs Ps care home  fees.  Nor would  local authority funding have done so alone had it been secured. 
The basis of Openworks  advice was that the combination of local authority funding  and the annuity 
income would meet the care home fees.
But by buying an annuity  at the outset, on Openworks advice, all of Mrs Ps capital was immediately  
and irrevocably  swapped for an annuity which, in the event, produced  an income that, under current 
provisions, denies Mrs P the opportunity  to secure local authority  funding. So the shortfall between  
the annuity income  and the care home fees had to be funded by other means.
And of particular significance is that Openwork has accepted its advice was unsuitable because local 
authority funding was not secured.
So Mrs P should be redressed for any extra cost of meeting the funding  gap as a consequence  of 
local authority  funding not being secured.
the suitable  alternative
Openwork has questioned why I concluded that Mrs P would have been better advised to meet  her 
objective by gradual depletion of her assets rather than purchase of an annuity.
I reached this conclusion because Mrs Ps objective was to meet  the care home  fees ideally  utilising 
local authority  funding. Her family  has said that if Openwork had not given the advice that purchasing 
an annuity would allow Mrs P to obtain local authority funding, Mrs P would instead have depleted her 
capital to a point  where it fell below the threshold to secure  that funding.
In my view,  if suitable advice  had been given,  then more  likely than not Mrs P would have depleted 
her capital; such funding would, in all probability, then have been available.
Had this funding  then not met the full cost of Mrs Ps care home fees, she and her family would have 
had flexibility in deciding  how to fund the full cost in the future.
Mrs Rs further submissions
Mrs R made a number of points in response to my third provisional decision. In particular, she 
disagreed with my conclusion  that her late father, Mr P, was not an eligible complainant.
But I am not persuaded to change  my conclusion  that the late Mr P was not an eligible complainant 
under our rules.  Although  Mrs R says Mr P was an eligible complainant because  he attended the first 
meeting with Openwork in 2014 and has provided a copy  of an email to Openwork in which she set 
out what  her father wanted  to achieve, I dont think that alone is sufficient  to say Mr P was a customer  
of Openwork.
I said of this issue in my second provisional  decision:
Mr P was named  as a complainant,  along with Mrs P, in the complaint originally  made  to the business 
and also in the ombudsman  service complaint form (with  Mrs R complaining on behalf of her mother).
However, whats not clear is whether Mr P satisfies DISP 2.7.6R so as to be an eligible  complainant. 
He is a consumer, so the main question is whether he was a customer or potential  customer  of the 
business who is the subject  of the complaint, EM Gray & Co, who were an appointed representative 
of Openwork.
Ref: DRN6865438I have not seen evidence to show that Mr P corresponded  with, or was written to, by Openwork. I 
have not seen  evidence to show Mr P attended any meetings with Openwork  at which  advice was 
given. And for the further  reasons set out above, I have concluded  Mr P was not a customer  of 
Openwork, and therefore is not an eligible complainant. But as I hope will be clear this has no bearing  
on what I propose in terms of redress.
I think  that remains the position. I have not seen evidence  to show Mr P corresponded directly with or 
was written to by Openwork.  Even though Mr P attended the first meeting  with Openwork, I am not 
persuaded that this, on balance, made him a customer  of Openwork within the meaning of our rules.
I have also paid particular  attention  to Mrs Rs submission to this service of 18 May 2018. In this 
submission, Mrs R confirmed several  times that she and her family were  always acting  on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs P, either together or individually. This is the case for Mrs P, on whose behalf Mrs R and 
her brother are appointed to make decisions by way of an enduring power of attorney. I dont think  
that Mrs R acting on behalf  of Mr P supports the view that he was a customer  of Openwork for the 
purposes of this particular instance of advice.
In my view,  the evidence shows that Mrs P was the customer;  the annuity was in her name, she paid 
for it and the contract  was with her. The customer relationship was with Mrs P albeit  the late Mr P did 
attend the initial meeting  with Openwork. But the late Mr P did not buy anything from Openwork or 
use its services. He was effectively at arms  length in the transaction even though Im satisfied he lent 
funds to Mrs P to buy the annuity for her benefit alone.
But I reiterate that, in my view, this is a technicality in the circumstances of this complaint.  It has no 
particular implications for its outcome.
summary
For the reasons  given,  my overall finding in this case is that the advice to establish the annuity was 
unsuitable. Mrs P would  have  been better served in meeting her objective  by a depletion  of capital, to 
fund her care home fees.
Once depleted  below  the local authority  threshold, Mrs P would likely  then have been eligible  for local 
authority funding. As such, I consider a fair and reasonable outcome here would be to put Mrs P, as 
closely as possible,  in the position she would now be in had that suitable advice been given.
redress
Mrs Ps circumstances have changed significantly  in recent months.  Mrs P is still receiving an NHS 
funded financial  allowance for her continuing care and I understand that she is now also receiving 
pension income from her late husbands pension arrangements.
Consequently, had Mrs P been receiving local authority funding,  that would have stopped at the point 
Mrs Ps income exceeded the local authority  threshold. It follows that the fundamental cause of this 
complaint would in any case end at that point.
I understand though that the NHS funding is discretionary. It may be removed in future. That cannot 
be predicted with any certainty  but I further  understand  that Mrs Ps annuity income  and dependents 
pension income is now sufficient to meet the care home fees.
In determining redress,  my aim is to put Mrs P, as far as possible, in the position she would have 
been but for unsuitable  advice from Openwork. I previously suggested this might be achieved  if the 
annuity provider  would agree to unwinding or reassigning  the annuity.
But since I issued the second provisional decision, the annuity provider has confirmed that this isnt 
possible. Given  that, putting  Mrs P into the position she would have been in is clearly problematic.  In 
any event, Mrs R has subsequently confirmed her preference  on behalf of Mrs P for the annuity to 
remain in place.
Ref: DRN6865438In my second provisional  decision, I asked for details  of both the loan made by Mr P to Mrs P and 
details of any state  benefits foregone by Mrs P as a result of buying the annuity.  I said I would need 
these details in order to incorporate any losses on either of these into my redress award. Mrs R has 
confirmed that no repayments have been made to date and that the loan will be discharged on the 
sale of property held by the late Mr P and Mrs P.
I have carefully reflected  on the details of Mrs Ps costs and the total income she has received from 
various sources, including her state  pension  and state benefits.
Any such solution must be fair now and reflect Mrs Ps past loss and any potential  future  gain. And as 
Mrs Ps past or future income  from her state pension  and benefits is unlikely to be impacted by the 
redress solution I now propose (and in fact Mrs Ps state  benefits have not historically been impacted  
by the income  from her annuity) she will not, in my view,  be compromised  by it.
Mrs R has asked this service to reimburse  the legal  costs incurred in bringing  this complaint.  But our 
general approach is that legal representation is not necessary for a complainant to refer their 
complaint to this service.
Legal representations were  made by Mrs R on behalf of Mrs P when first bringing her complaint to 
this service. But this service  is free to consumers and legal representation is not a prerequisite. Mrs R 
made her own decision to take legal advice. And although complex  in nature, I do not consider that 
the matters at issue here required legal  representation to bring them to this service. I therefore do not 
think it reasonable  to hold either this service or Openwork responsible  for the costs  of that decision.
Mrs R has previously said, amongst other things, that redress should  primarily  involve  Openwork 
buying a further annuity to cover the shortfall in Mrs Ps care home  fees. That is the difference  
between income from the existing annuity and Mrs Ps care home  fees.
In response, Ive said in my previous decision that that this would not be reasonable. In effect,  it would 
have meant  that Openwork  were being asked to pay redress that replaced the contribution  that would 
have come from the local authority had the application for such funding been accepted  as well as 
Mrs P receiving an income from the annuity for the rest of her life.
And as I have previously set out if the annuity had not been  established, Mrs P would  have relied on 
her capital to fund the care home fees.  And this would have run out some time ago. I therefore 
considered that to require Openwork to effectively fund nearly half of Mrs Ps past and future care 
home costs would be disproportionate,  given  the existing  annuity is providing  a substantial, ongoing 
benefit.
Mrs R has said that unwinding the original annuity is no longer  a prerequisite for suitable  redress. But 
as Ive said before this isnt, in any case, possible.
I therefore  decided upon an alternative form of redress reflecting  all the changed circumstances since 
this complaint was first referred  here.
I formulated a pragmatic approach which I considered  the most fair and reasonable basis for redress.  I 
have not been persuaded by subsequent submissions from either party to change my view other than 
with regard  to the calculation of any future gain.
I therefore  consider  the following redress methodology is a fair and reasonable resolution.
past loss
Openwork should reconstruct, as far as possible, what would have happened if suitable advice had 
been given. My view is that, suitably  advised, Mrs P would have run down  her capital to pay her care 
home fees. Mrs Ps family have said this is highly likely.  And it seems reasonable to me to assume 
Ref: DRN6865438that Mrs Ps funds would have been invested in a series of competitive one year, fixed interest deposit 
accounts to fund this. In my view, these  accounts  would have attracted gross interest at 1.5% 
annually.
As part of the advice process, it had been estimated that the weekly funding from the local authority 
would be in the region of £400. This gave the basis of the required annuity. At the point Mrs Ps funds 
fell below £23,500, this funding would in all likelihood have applied.
Once Mrs Ps funds had become too low to sustain the fees, Mrs P would have  begun to borrow  the 
money from her husband.
But irrespective  of the receipt of the annuity payments or the local authority funding, my understanding 
is that the non-means tested NHS funding which has been paid to Mrs P would also have applied.
Given the size of Mrs Ps own assets,  it seems certain that, in the absence of the annuity, she would 
some time ago have  needed to begin borrowing from Mr P. But had the local authority  funding  been 
received, this debt would  have been less than it now is.
Therefore, taking the circumstances above and the money which  Mrs P has actually received into 
account, Openwork should compare the position  of debt to her late husband, as at the date Mrs P 
started to receive a dependents pension from her late husbands arrangements (and so the date at 
which local authority funding would  have ceased) with the notional  position  of debt to Mr Ps estate 
that she would otherwise have been in but for Openworks advice  at the same date.
Mrs Ps debt position should include:
1. the amount of care home fees which have  needed  to be paid over the relevant  period;
2. the amount initially lent to her by Mr P to buy the annuity (which I understand from Mrs Ps 
representatives to be £87,121); and
3.any additional payments  made by Mr P towards care funding since; and
4.take account of state pension and benefits  received by Mrs P, as well as non-means tested  NHS 
funding.
The notional  debt position  should take account of:
The amount of care home fees which have needed to be paid over the relevant  period,
the running down of Mrs Ps capital, local authority, state  pension and benefits and non- means  tested 
NHS funding;  and then the amount which would then have needed to be borrowed from Mr P.
If, on comparing the actual debt position  against the notional debt position, Mrs P would have been in 
greater debt to her late husband  as a result of buying the annuity,  she has suffered a past loss.
future gain
In my third provisional decision, I said there appeared to be approximate parity between the notional  
local authority  funding and the annuity. And so Mrs P would in the future  be no better  or worse  off as 
a result. I invited either party  to further investigate the actual level of funding  to which Mrs P would be 
entitled. Mrs R has provided these details.
However, the situation  has changed as a result  of Mrs P now receiving her dependents pension  from 
Mr Ps arrangements. My understanding is that Mrs P would not now in any case be eligible for local 
authority funding. But she retains the benefit of her own annuity payments in the future.
Ref: DRN6865438As such, my current view is that, to whatever extent the amount of her annuity payment has exceeded 
the care home fees since  Mrs P began receiving  the dependents  pension,  that is an additional  benefit 
which she wouldnt have,  had the capital been  depleted as Ive said should  have happened above.
Accordingly, Openwork may calculate  the capitalized  value (determined by obtaining the cost of 
buying that annuity), as at the date Mrs P began receiving  the dependents pension,  of any part of her 
annuity which  exceeds the care home fees and deduct this from any past loss calculated above.
Openwork should pay the resulting sum to Mrs P. And to that sum should  be added interest at the 
rate of 8% simple from the date of Mrs P began  receiving  the dependents pension up to the date of 
settlement.
I appreciate that Mrs R has said that my redress should be expressed by reference  to quantified 
amounts rather than on a formulaic basis.
Openwork, not unreasonably, will require  confirmation of the exact timing and quantum of amounts 
received by Mrs P, particularly in respect of NHS contributions, pension income  under  the late Mr Ps 
arrangements and changes, if any, to Mrs Ps care home fees, in order to complete its redress  
calculations. The redress calculations are likely  to be complex. Under  our rules, I am therefore  entitled 
to direct that the business  -Openwork Limited   calculate the quantum  of redress, if any, according to 
the formulaic  principles I have set out.
I have therefore set out a formula  and the information  Mrs R will need to provide Openwork so that it 
can conclude its redress calculation. I do not know what amount of loss, if any, such  a calculation  will 
produce. But I am satisfied  the formula I have set out provides a fair, reasonable and pragmatic basis 
on which to calculate  redress.
As I have made  a formulaic award, Openwork should work out the compensation in line with the 
approach I have set out above. It should then send a copy of its calculation to this service and Mrs R, 
on behalf of Mrs P.
The calculation should  be set out in a way that is easy to understand.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business  of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate.  If I think  that 
fair compensation is more  than £150,000, I may recommend that the business  pays  the balance.
provisional decision and award:
I provisionally  uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should  be calculated as set out 
above.
My provisional  decision  is that Openwork Limited  should pay Mrs P the amount produced by that 
calculation  up to a maximum  of £150,000.
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation is more  than £150,000,  I may recommend in my final 
decision that Openwork Limited pays Mrs P the balance. This recommendation would  not be part of 
my determination or award. Openwork Limited doesnt have to do what  I might recommend. But it is 
unlikely that Mrs R, on behalf of Mrs P, could  accept  any such final decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance.
Mrs R, on behalf of Mrs P, may want to get independent legal advice before  deciding whether  to 
accept any such final decision. In addition, reflecting its earlier offer, I have provisionally  decided  
Openwork Limited must  pay Mrs P £2,000 for distress and inconvenience in pursuing this matter.
Ref: DRN6865438I think  this fairly reflects  the distress caused by Openwork Limiteds  unsuitable advice and is 
consistent with what I would have awarded if the offer had not been made.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865438