K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Ms B complain  that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined  their travel insurance  
claim. My references to UKI include its agents.
background
Mr O and Ms B missed  their flight to Europe  and incurred additional travel and 
accommodation costs  as a result. They have travel  insurance through  their bank account. 
UKI is the insurer.
Mr O phoned UKI from the airport. He said he and Ms B arrived  at the airport in plenty of 
time but they missed the flight mainly because airport staff directed them  to the wrong  flight  
gate. UKI told him the circumstances werent covered under the missed departure  section of 
the policy. Mr O then told UKI that he had a specific medical condition  and anxiety and he 
was getting irritable.
A few days  later Mr O spoke to UKI and said there were a number of reasons  he and Ms B 
missed the flight in addition to the wrong flight gate information: he has a medical condition 
that means he has to use a toilet frequently which caused him to be delayed; they were 
delayed going  through security;  he had to go through his bag to check he had his wallet;  
there was a rowdy  group at the airport; there was no announcement  for the flight. UKI 
confirmed the claim  still wasnt covered by missed departure.
A couple of days later Mr O spoke  to UKI again. It told Mr O that if he had medical evidence 
he was ill it could look into whether the claim was covered by cancellation cover.
Mr O and Ms B complained to us. Theyve  complained to the airline/airport about  the wrong 
information it gave  them. But they said UKI should cover their claim as Mr Os medical  
condition meant they missed the flight.
During our investigation Mr O provided  medical  evidence that he had the medical  condition  
hed mentioned and the symptoms could include diarrhoea.
UKI still declined the claim. It said there was no evidence that Mr O had a problem at the 
airport due to his medical  condition  which caused him to miss the flight. A doctor would have 
needed to confirm cancellation  was necessary.
Our investigator thought UKI had fairly  declined  the claim.
Mr O and Ms B disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O and Ms B, as I see Mr O has been  having some personal  
difficulties. I dont uphold  this complaint. 
I need to decide whether UKI acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim, and I think  it 
did. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN60081652On the information Mr O initially gave UKI about why he and Ms B missed the flight,  UKI 
reasonably assessed the claim against the missed departure section of the policy.  That 
section covers some additional  expenses if Mr O and Ms B missed  their flight  due to specific 
events that caused problems  in getting  to the airport on time. Mr O and Ms B missed  their 
flight because of issues they had at the airport. UKI fairly declined  the claim under the 
missed departure cover.
A few days  later Mr O did tell UKI that one of the reasons for his missed  departure was due 
to the symptoms of his medical condition, he had to be in the toilet  for 20 minutes before 
boarding the flight. UKI acted reasonably  in telling Mr O that if he had evidence to support he 
was ill it would consider the claim under cancellation.
Mr O has gone to considerable  effort  to get medical evidence  about his medical condition. 
Hes got evidence from the relevant hospital  that hes clinically managed for the condition 
and about the possible symptoms of the condition. 
But Mr O hasnt given any medical evidence to show that he was too unwell to fly on the day. 
Theres no medical evidence to support that Mr O was suffering from the effects of his 
medical condition  on the day of the flight that caused  him to miss the flight.  UKI couldnt tell 
him on the day of the flight he needed such medical evidence  because he hadnt  told it that 
symptoms of his medical condition were a cause of him missing  the flight.
Mr O has told us he thinks the effect  of his medical condition was the main  reason he and 
Ms B missed the flight. But theres no evidence to support  that his medical  condition  was the 
only or even main reason they missed the flight.  
From what  Mr O told UKI around the time of the claim, him having  to be in the toilet was one 
of several reasons he and Ms B missed the flight.  Its reasonable for UKI to consider the 
information Mr O gave  at the time of the claim to be the most accurate.
UKI fairly and reasonably  declined  the claim.
Mr O is annoyed that UKI asked him for medical  information and still declined  the claim. He 
wants UKI to pay compensation for his time and cost to get the medical evidence. 
I think UKI could have been  clearer  about  the medical evidence Mr O needed. But ultimately 
it's for Mr O and Ms B to provide evidence  to support their claim.  Mr Os provided  the 
evidence he could and it isnt enough to show  UKI should cover  the claim. I make  no 
compensation award against UKI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6008165