K821x#15complaint
Mr W says American  Express Services Europe  Limited (American  Express) mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W took out a credit  card in 1999  via a postal application. He was sold the PPI at the same  
time he took this credit  card.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  American  Express  didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why. 
American Express had to provide Mr W with clear information about the policy. In particular, 
this would have  been information  about the costs, benefits, main  exclusions and onerous 
terms in the policy.  From  the evidence Ive seen from the time of the sale, I dont think  
American Express made it clear to Mr W that it would have been  difficult  for a self-employed  
person to make a claim  under the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr W as he has told us he was self-employed at the time 
of the sale. American  Express have  asked if Mr W can provide evidence  of his self-employed  
status. However, given  the fact that the sale took place nearly 20 years  ago (so it wouldnt 
be unreasonable if Mr W was unable to provide this evidence) and there isnt anything to 
doubt Mr W was self-employed  at the time of the sale, I accept what Mr W has told us about 
being self-employed at the time of the sale. 
So I think if it had been made clear  to Mr W how difficult it would have been for a self-
employed person  to make a claim under the policy, I dont think he would  have taken the PPI 
out because it wouldnt have been  good  value for money in his circumstances.
So I think American Express  mis-sold Mr W this PPI policy and should compensate Mr W as 
set out below.
fair compensation
American Express should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A.American  Express should find out how much  Mr W would have owed when he closed  
his credit  card account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN60224592So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
American Express should then refund the difference between what  Mr W owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, American Express can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.American  Express should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr W 
would have owed when  he closed his account from when  he closed it until he gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then 
on.
C.If  when  American Express works  out what Mr W would have owed  each month without 
PPI  Mr W paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, American Express  should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Mr W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Mr W wouldve owed  American Express  something on his credit card. 
The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.American  Express should tell Mr W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires American Express to take off tax from this interest. American  Express  must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint  against American  Express Services  Europe Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6022459