K822xcomplaint
O, a limited company,  complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc closed its account and 
would not release the money in the account  straightaway.
background 
NatWest wrote to O on 5 March 2018  giving it 14 days  notice of the closure of its account. 
And this notice said that no payments  had been made from 2 March 2018.  NatWest said that 
any credit  balance could  be withdrawn from a branch. O tried to do this and found  that this 
was not correct. O was given the balance of £4,965.42 on 24 April 2018. NatWest has now 
offered to pay O simple  interest of eight  percent  for the 55 days it held the money and £150  
for inconvenience. O did not agree  and wants to claim  for additional interest  and financial 
loss caused by it not being able to make  or receive  payments. It has also incurred  solicitors  
costs.
The adjudicator did not recommend that NatWest do anymore than it had offered to. He said 
that:
-O did not take actions  to open  a new account  so that it could continue to trade.
-Any consequences of a different company not being able to pay Os invoices from 
that companys  account were not something  we could  look at here.
-There was no direct borrowing taken  by O linked to the account closure and there 
was no basis for NatWest to pay the interest  requested.
-A letter O sent about a tax payment did not say when it was due and when the debt 
was created so NatWest could not be found  responsible for paying  this.
-This service is free and provides informal dispute resolution. It was a matter for O to 
decide if it wanted to be represented and he would  not be suggesting an award for 
these related costs.
The director  of O did not agree and wanted his complaint  to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that NatWest acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when it gave O notice it was going to close  it. And I understand 
why the funds were  available to O from 24 April 2018.
NatWest gave O incorrect information when it said that O could access  the funds in a branch 
before that date.  O had already received the funds by the time NatWest sent it a final 
response letter on 8 May 2018 saying the funds were available.
O has provided information about  two loans and said that NatWest should pay the interest  
on these. One for £9,000 it says was so that a company supplier could pay it. Like the 
adjudicator I consider that to be a matter between O and that supplier. The other  loan for 
£5,000 was taken by a third party and I am not satisfied of the connection to O. And I dont 
find any basis for NatWest to pay the interest  on these loans. The award it has offered  
compensates O for being deprived  of these funds at a standard  eight  per cent simple 
interest. I think  thats a reasonable  offer.
Ref: DRN62787962Os representative says it is unable to provide any evidence about the impact on trading and 
business disruption of not having an account.  That is said to be something left to my 
judgement. I dont know what steps O took to arrange an account elsewhere.  As I said 
above I dont find NatWest made an error  in closing  the account.  And even if I was minded to 
think it had Id have  needed to see clear  evidence of a loss it could be said to be responsible 
for. I havent here and I wont be making  any award for financial loss. 
I agree  with what the adjudicators said about the legal costs. I dont think that there were 
any complex legal issues here that meant  O needed  a representative. So I see the decision  
to appoint a representative as Os choice  and I wont be asking NatWest to pay these costs 
of £1,284.
O has been caused inconvenience  by being given incorrect  information.  The director has 
spent time going  to a branch to try and withdraw the funds   when they werent  available.  I 
think that is fairly reflected in the offer of £150 of compensation. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
to:
1)Pay O £150
2)Pay O simple interest  of eight percent on the money in the account for 55 days.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6278796