K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2000. Mr H says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The PPI was designed to help protect Mr Hs monthly credit  card repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability  or unemployment.  It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr H disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Based  on a copy of Mr Hs signed  credit card application form, I think  RBS made it clear 
that he didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to do so. I can understand if he 
doesnt remember that given how long ago the sale took place.
I dont believe RBS recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr H got the information he needed  to decide if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong despite being  entitled  to full sick pay for a 
short time. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said  including that RBS mistakenly told him it 
would pay him around £993 for commission and profit share when in fact it felt he was due 
around £326. I note that RBS corrected the error  in writing five days  later and provided 
Ref: DRN64645802further explanation over the phone  after Mr H got in touch with RBS  just over a week  
after that.
While RBS error was unfortunate, and no doubt  caused Mr H some confusion, Im satisfied 
it acted reasonably promptly to correct  the mistake. I dont think  any additional 
compensations due for this issue.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand its already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6464580