K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about the amount she received when she withdrew her investments from 
an ISA with HBOS Investment Fund  Managers  Limited. Mrs Fs husband has represented 
her in bringing her complaint but for simplicity Ill refer to Mrs F throughout.
background
Mrs F had an ISA with HBOS containing  a number of investments. In October  2018  she rang 
HBOS to see what her investments were worth. When she rang again the next day the value 
had fallen by around £1,000. She decided to cash in her investments and close her account,  
and asked HBOS  to do so that day.
HBOS carried out Mrs Fs instructions and sold her investments. When  she received her 
money, Mrs F noticed  the amount was another £800  lower  than it had been  when she rang 
HBOS to close her account. She complained.
HBOS explained  that her investments were  in funds which  used forward pricing. This meant  
when someone  asked to buy or sell the funds, their transaction  would take place at the 
following days price.  Because Mrs Fs investments had unfortunately fallen in value the day 
of her request, that was why she received  less than she expected.  
Mrs F still wasnt happy, and brought her complaint to our service. She said she thought  
HBOS should  have sold her holdings the day she asked it to, and it hadnt explained to her 
that her investments  could fall in value  further  before they were  sold.  She asked for it to pay 
her the £800 difference between the valuation on the day of the sale and the amount she 
eventually got.
Our investigator looked into things and thought HBOS had acted fairly. She explained  the 
forward pricing model was standard in the industry  and HBOS  had sold Mrs Fs investments 
at the next available  price when she asked it to. The investigator thought HBOS had clearly 
explained how the process would  work  and when Mrs Fs investments would be priced.
Mrs F didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, Im satisfied HBOS  didnt do anything wrong when it sold Mrs Fs funds. The funds 
were only priced once a day and requests  to buy or sell would  be carried  out at the following 
days price.  Thats what happened so Mrs F got the right price for her investments.
Ive also listened  to the call Mrs F had with HBOS on the day she wanted to close  her 
account. While its clear  she is upset at the fall in value her investments had already 
suffered, Im satisfied the adviser clearly explained  how and when Mrs Fs funds would be 
sold. The adviser  explained the deal would be carried out at the next days  price  and this 
could mean  a different amount being  paid to that days valuation. The adviser checked 
Mrs Fs understanding and she replied  so it will be tomorrows price? So I dont think  HBOS  
did anything wrong  in the way it explained the process, either.
Ref: DRN63350422I think its also important to note that, even if HBOS had given a more  detailed or complete 
explanation of the process, that wouldnt have impacted on how much Mrs F got from her 
investments. When Mrs F called HBOS it sold her funds at the earliest opportunity.  I 
appreciate Mrs F felt upset when  she found out her investments had lost another £800. But 
there wasnt any way for her to have got that higher amount  after she called  HBOS  to close  
her account.  So I dont think it would be fair for HBOS to have to pay that difference  to 
Mrs F.
Mrs F has said she was worried about the stock  markets  falling further,  which was why she 
wanted to cash  in her investments. So on balance,  I dont think shed have held on to her 
investments any longer  if shed had a better understanding of the way her funds would be 
priced, either. Mrs F also told our investigator  she still would have closed her account if 
shed understood  things  better at the time.
So in summary I dont think HBOS did anything wrong in the way it carried out Mrs Fs 
instructions to close her account, or in the way it explained things to Mrs F. And in any event, 
I dont think Mrs F has suffered any loss as a result of the transaction because she wanted 
to sell at the earliest  opportunity and HBOS  couldnt  have sold her funds any quicker  than it 
did.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6335042