K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains about the settlement and handling of a leak claim by Legal & General 
Insurance Limited (L&G) under her home insurance policy.
background
Ms W had home insurance  with L&G. In March 2019, she made  a claim when her home was 
damaged by a leak. L&G accepted the claim  and appointed loss adjusters. Ms W and her 
family moved out on 13 March, with the repairs beginning on 23 July (following the removal  
of asbestos from the property on10  May). Because Ms Ws son had a respiratory condition, 
L&G had agreed  to pay for the family to live in alternative accommodation pending  the 
completion of the repairs. It also agreed  to pay £20 per day as a disturbance allowance.
Ms W told L&G she was unhappy with the time it was taking to resolve the claim, but she 
didnt accept its offer to settle the claim in cash, because  she said it was less than it would 
cost her to pay for the repairs to be completed by her chosen contractors. As the claim 
progressed, Ms W remained dissatisfied about  a number of issues, complaining  in 
September about the ongoing delays, the quality of the repairs and the handling of the claim. 
She said her dog had begun to suffer from seizures,  costing £245 in vets bills. She argued a 
hotel wasnt a suitable environment for a large  dog, and that the vet had said the seizures 
were caused  by stress.  She was unhappy because she felt the loss adjuster was rude. She 
said it was difficult to communicate with the tradesmen and she had to make constant  phone 
calls to various contractors as well as chasing  payment  of the disturbance allowance. She 
spent time negotiating the replacement of the piano and the washing machine,  and was 
often left fearing  they would have no accommodation, as the bookings  were done at the last 
minute. They sometimes had to move for a few nights and had to pack  all their things, which 
was tiring, unsettling and time consuming.
Ms W also complained that the quality of some  of the repairs was unsatisfactory  and that the 
repairs were unfinished  when she moved home in September.  The kitchen skirting was fitted 
with a 15mm gap, meaning that the floor moved  up and down when walked on. The 
woodwork was painted  in white emulsion, using no primer or undercoat and there  was 
peeling paint  on the banister and stair architrave. The contractor had ordered and fitted the 
wrong vinyl for the bathroom floor, despite having been sent details of the replacement.  This 
caused further delays as the bathroom  had to be removed and reinstalled twice. The kitchen 
sink drainer had popped out of position  and caught  on the new drawer  base and the living 
room ceiling and the stairs and bathroom  walls  had blistered,  with unsightly lumps and 
uneven finish. A damaged  light fitting was yet to be replaced.
When L&G failed to give Ms W a satisfactory  response, she complained to this service. She 
said she hadnt been compensated for the time shes had to spend  living  in alternative 
accommodation, explaining she suffers from medical conditions  which  were  worsened by the 
stress, anxiety, lack of rest and lack of sleep that she experienced as a result  of the poor 
handling of the claim.  After Ms W had complained, L&G accepted its service had fallen 
below an acceptable  standard  and offered to pay her £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  suffered as a result of its failings.  But Ms W didnt  feel £350 took 
account of the full extent of the distress and inconvenience shed suffered, including  the time 
off work her husband  had taken to meet contractors  and check  the work,  and the time shed 
spent on the phone dealing with the claim,  including  obtaining new written quotes  for 
outstanding work.
Ref: DRN64956152Our investigator felt the complained should  be upheld, recommending  she should  be paid an 
extra £300  compensation.  He also said L&G should pay two weeks  alternative  
accommodation and disturbance allowance  ( at £20 per day) while the outstanding work was 
completed, and that VAT should be added to the cash settlement.
L&G said it felt £500 compensation  was appropriate. It argued it had little control over the 
actions of the third party suppliers, and it didnt  accept  it could have stopped them from 
delivering damaged  materials,  or not delivering  them at all. It didnt accept it should pay VAT 
upfront as its not a policy requirement,  and not all contractors are VAT registered.  It agreed 
further alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance would be due, but suggested  
asking Ms W to provide  a written statement from her contractor as to how long the works will 
take. 
Ms W maintains shes entitled  to more compensation and because neither party are 
satisfied, the complaint  has been  passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusions  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Theres a degree of inevitable inconvenience that comes with this type of claim and which 
has nothing to do with the way the claim is handled. L&G didnt cause the leak or the 
damage to Ms Ws home and therefore its not responsible for all of the distress and 
inconvenience Ms W suffered. Because Ms Ws son had respiratory issues,  L&G paid for the 
family to live away from home while repairs were done. I understand this was stressful  and 
inconvenient, but it was necessitated by the fact of the claim itself and not because of 
something L&G did or failed to do.
Ms Ws explained  that her dog suffered from seizures while  they were  living  away from 
home, but I dont think the costs associated with her dog are something I can fairly make 
L&G pay for. I accept a vet said it was likely  the result of the stress of living  away  from home,  
but, as Ive said above, I dont think L&G is responsible for the fact they had to move out. 
Further, Ms Ws explained that her husband  had to take time off work to deal with the claim, 
but as hes not a party to the complaint, I cant make L&G pay him any compensation.
Ms Ws explained  she spent a lot of time on the phone  to various contractors trying to 
resolve issues such as the settlement L&G had made for the washing machine and the 
piano. Shes also described  the distress and inconvenience she experienced  chasing  L&G 
for the disturbance allowance payments and moving  to different accommodation at short 
notice.
The start of the repairs was delayed by about eight  weeks because  of the need to remove 
asbestos from the house, and the contractors having issues  with the schedule of works  and 
costs requiring additional substantiation. I dont  consider that part of the delay was L&Gs 
fault, but the work didnt  start for over four months from the date Ms W made the claim, and I 
think that was unreasonable. Further, there  were  a series of issues  which meant that in 
September, when  Ms W first complained to L&G, the claim was still unresolved. Again, 
taking into account  the nature of the claim and the repairs, I think this was unreasonable.
Ref: DRN64956153I understand some of the delay was due to failings by suppliers, and there was little L&G 
could have done to stop the suppliers from delivering incorrect  or damaged  parts. However, 
this wasnt Ms Ws fault and I consider it would be wholly unfair not to compensate  her for 
the impact of the delays in circumstances where L&G was responsible for the actions of its 
agents, including the choice of suppliers.
Ive considered the impact the delays  had on Ms W, including the length of time the family 
had to stay in alternative accommodation and the time she spent dealing  with contractors 
and chasing the disturbance allowance. Ive also considered  the fact some of the work was 
unsatisfactory and remains unfinished,  meaning Ms W still needs  to move out while its put 
right, and Im satisfied  L&G should pay a further  £500 compensation, on top of what  its 
already offered.
As far as outstanding work is concerned, L&Gs paid Ms W cash for the living  room  and 
hallway to be re-plastered and for the flooring in the living room and kitchen replaced and re-
painted. Ms Ws said the cost (including bills) of staying in a two bedroom  cottage while  the 
work is being done is £125 per night  (including  VAT).  L&Gs agreed to pay for that and Im 
satisfied thats  fair.
L&G also accepts it needs to pay a disturbance allowance (£20 per day) for the period of 
ongoing works, but its queried the two week period that our investigators suggested. I 
understand L&Gs stance, but Im satisfied the two week  estimate is based on guidance from 
Ms Ws contractors, and in the interest of moving the claim forward and resolving the issue, I 
consider two weeks is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
If Ms Ws required to pay VAT to her contractors, then of course L&G should pay it, but I 
agree that for various reasons, builders  dont always charge VAT. I think the fairest  thing 
would be for Ms W to present L&G with valid VAT receipts so she can be reimbursed.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Legal  & General Insurance Limited to:
pay Ms W £125 per day for 14 days for alternative accommodation.  This should 
include a payment of 8% simple interest from the date she incurs  the cost to the date 
is makes the payment  (unless it makes  the payment before Ms W incurs  the cost).
pay Ms W a disturbance allowance of £20 per day for 14 days. This should include a 
payment of 8% simple interest from the date she incurs the cost to the date is makes  
the payment (unless it makes the payment before she moves  out).
pay Ms W the money she pays her builders for VAT, upon receipt of a valid VAT 
receipt. This should include a payment of 8% simple interest  from the date she incurs  
the cost to the date is makes the payment.
pay Ms W an additional  £500  compensation. The compensation is to be paid within  
28 days of the date on which we tell Legal & General Insurance Limited  Ms W 
accepts my final decision (if she does).  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date my final decision to the date of payment,  
at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Legal & General Insurance  Limited  to take off tax from 
this interest. Legal & General Insurance Limited must give Ms W a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim  the tax from the 
tax authorities if appropriate.
Ref: DRN64956154Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6495615