K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the service she got from Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  
after her cards were stolen.
background
Somebody took Mrs Bs purse when she was shopping. She remembered putting some  
money into her account at Halifax. So she went  back to her branch.  She was very upset and 
went straight to the counter. But she was told to go to the back  of the queue.
Mrs B had to wait for 30 minutes before someone helped  her cancel her cards. And money 
was taken from her account before they were blocked. Mrs B said the staff were rude and 
she had a panic  attack. 
She found the whole  experience very distressing and hasnt been  able to sleep. So she 
wants compensation and an apology from the bank.
Halifax was sorry to hear Mrs Bs purse had been  stolen.  Mrs B had been advised  to take a 
seat for a second. It thought she should check her bag before it cancelled her card. And 
Mrs B had been helped to cancel her other cards. So Halifax felt itd done all it could to help 
Mrs B.
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with Halifaxs response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Mrs B had been able to provide  further 
information to the fraud squad  about  the theft. And her stolen money had been refunded.  
But she felt Halifax couldve handled the situation differently. Mrs B was extremely 
distressed. And it shouldve been  clear she had health issues. So she felt Halifax should pay 
Mrs B £100  compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
Mrs B didnt think the compensation was enough. She was late paying her rent. And she had 
to borrow money. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This mustve been very distressing for Mrs B. She had her purse stolen and she was worried 
someone might take her money.  And when she went to Halifax it took a while  to sort things 
out. So Ive looked very carefully at whats happened. 
When Mrs B returned to her bank  she mustve been  very upset. Her purse  was missing. And 
she needed help immediately. So she went straight  to the counter.  But Mrs B said the staff 
were rude to her. She was told to go to the back of the queue. And then she was told to 
check her bag even though  she was sure the purse  had been stolen.
I think it was a sensible idea to check once more before  cancelling the card.  But I agree with 
our investigator that Mrs B mustve clearly been in distress. And her health issues shouldve 
been obvious. 
Ref: DRN68368302So although  the bank did help Mrs B cancel her cards it took some  time. And the delay 
wouldve been very upsetting.
There seems  to have been  some  confusion dealing with the fraud.  And Mrs B didnt get back  
the stolen money  for about a week. This caused problems paying her rent. And she had to 
borrow some  money. I realise  this wouldve added to Mrs Bs stress. And I think  its right that 
Halifax compensate  Mrs B for the trouble shes suffered.  
Halifax has apologised for any upset or inconvenience. And its agreed with our investigator 
that it should pay Mrs B £100 compensation. I realise Mrs B doesnt think thats enough  for 
what shes been through. And Ive taken  on board  what Mrs B has said about the impact this 
has had on her.
But its important to remember  the distress was started  by someone else stealing Mrs Bs 
purse. Mrs B has my sympathy. I do understand how upsetting this mustve  been. And 
Halifax couldve been more helpful.  
But I think the suggested compensation is the right amount for the distress the bank has 
caused her. And I wont be asking Halifax to increase  the amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  should pay Mrs B 
£100 compensation as it has already agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6836830