K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  (Lloyds) have not reinstated 
her kitchen to a satisfactory  standard following her insurance claim.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2019, which sets out the 
background to Mrs As dispute and forms part of this final decision. In my decision, I said I 
was minded to uphold  it in part because I considered that Mrs A had suffered a loss of 
match, as Lloyds were  unable to find an exact  replacement of her existing kitchen worktop.  
So I concluded that Lloyds should compensate  Mrs A by paying 50% of the cost of replacing 
the undamaged  worktop. 
I also concluded that Lloyds should pay £125 compensation in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by the issues Mrs A experienced with the quality of works 
undertaken. However, I didnt think there  was enough evidence to hold Lloyds  liable for the 
worktop that had since been chipped, or for the levelling compound  found  in Mrs As garden.  
I also didnt think Lloyds  ought to compensate Mrs A for any loss of match resulting from her 
kitchen drawers, as the original fronts appeared to have been used and only the inner 
carcasses replaced.
Lloyds accepted the proposals set out in my provisional decision, and explained that they 
had already paid the £125  compensation previously  offered to Mrs A on 4 September 2018.  
Mrs A disagreed with the findings in my provisional decision.  She said that because  the 
issues occurred some time ago, she doesnt  have any further evidence to submit.  Mrs A also 
disagreed with the amount of compensation awarded, as she doesnt  feel this is 
commensurate to the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given that neither of the parties has 
submitted any further evidence for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
reasoning, or to alter the proposals set out in my provisional decision. 
I have considered Mrs As comments, and I understand she may be disappointed with the 
findings made in my decision. But in the circumstances, Im afraid  there isnt enough  
evidence to substantiate all the allegations made  about Lloyds (in relation to the disposed  
levelling compound and chipped worktop,  for example) such  that I can fairly  hold them  liable 
for all the issues Mrs A has complained about. 
I also appreciate that Mrs A may not feel that £125 is commensurate to the distress  and 
inconvenience she has suffered. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I can see that 
Lloyds did attend  Mrs As property on various  occasions to rectify any snagging issues for 
which they were responsible. So overall,  given that I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible  for 
all the issues complained about,  I still consider £125  to be a proportionate reflection of the of 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  And given that Lloyds have confirmed that theyve 
already paid this amount, I will not be asking them to pay anything further.
Ref: DRN68147722my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, as well as those set out in my provisional decision,  I uphold 
Mrs As complaint in part and direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited to pay 50% of 
the cost of replacing her undamaged worktop due to the loss of match.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68147723COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have not reinstated  her 
kitchen to a satisfactory  standard following her insurance  claim.
background
Mrs A holds a buildings  insurance policy with Lloyds. She made a claim in August 2017 after suffering 
an escape of water which  brought down a section of her ceiling and caused  damage to the kitchen.  
Lloyds accepted Mrs As claim and instructed their contractors to carry  out the necessary repairs.
Following the completion  of the works, Mrs A raised  concerns  regarding the quality of the 
workmanship. This includes,  but is not strictly limited to:
She is unhappy with the repairs to her kitchen cabinets, which she says took three goes to fit 
the units  properly, and has meant  she has been  left with drawers that dont match.
The new kitchen worktop did not match the existing worktop in feel and texture.
She is unhappy with the vinyl, which  was moving underfoot and had begun  to crack.
Lloyds instructed their contractors to inspect the vinyl,  who said they had discovered  damp 
underneath the kitchen flooring which appeared to be entering underneath  the patio doors which was 
causing the vinyl to crack,  so they argued they would not be responsible for this given that it was 
unrelated to the insured  event. 
Lloyds were satisfied  that the other elements of the repairs Mrs A had complained about had been 
repaired to a satisfactory standard. However, they acknowledged that she had been put to some 
inconvenience and offered £125 compensation. Unhappy  with this, Mrs A brought  her complaint  to 
this service and said that in addition to the above, the replacement worktop now has a large  chip in it, 
and she also claims that the contractors disposed  of levelling compound in her garden which has 
solidified to a tree.
Our investigator upheld Mrs As complaint.  She didnt think Mrs As kitchen drawers matched, so she 
said Lloyds should pay 50% of the costs of replacing the undamaged  drawers as compensation  for 
the loss of match.  The investigator thought it was reasonable for Lloyds  to replace  the worktop  with 
the nearest equivalent given that the original was no longer available.  But given that they no longer 
matched, she said Lloyds  should also pay 50% towards the cost of replacing the undamaged worktop. 
In terms of the recent damage  sustained  to the replacement worktop, the investigator considered that 
this demonstrated it was not an adequate replacement, so she said that Lloyds  should replace the 
worktop or provide the cash equivalent for its replacement. She also said they should  arrange  for the 
levelling compound in the garden  to be cleared  up, as well as paying  an additional £200 
compensation in recognition  of the trouble and upset  caused.
Lloyds disagreed. They  said there was no loss of match  to be compensated for the kitchen drawers 
as the contractors had used an existing  drawer  front. They also argued that they should  not have  to 
pay 50% for the undamaged work  surface for the loss of match  because  this would  result in 
betterment. Finally  Lloyds  said we could not consider  the points regarding the chipped worktop  or the 
levelling compound found in the garden as this had not been raised  by Mrs A in her initial complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to uphold it in part.
Ref: DRN68147724Mrs A doesnt  believe that Lloyds have properly  indemnified her in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, as she doesnt believe they have  put her back in the position  she was in before the 
damage occurred to her kitchen. 
The policy covers her buildings against escape of water and sets out:
 We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damaged (using 
a suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not more  than the cost of completely 
rebuilding it in its original form
The terms  rebuilding and repairing are not defined by the policy. But where an insurer chooses  to 
settle a claim by repairing  the damage, the insurer  is expected to indemnify the consumer by carrying 
out an effective and lasting  repair, in that it must fully put right the damage and must  last for an 
appropriate amount of time. So Ive considered whether  the work  carried out by Lloyds has properly 
indemnified Mrs A and has put her back in her pre-loss position so far as reasonably possible. 
kitchen units/drawers
Mrs A is unhappy  with the repair that has been carried out to her kitchen units  as she says she has 
been left with drawers that dont match. However, Lloyds  asked their contractors  what the drawers 
were replaced with, to which they explained:
We replaced  one drawer pack (nearest the kitchen sink) using the existing  front. Due to the use of 
the existing front our technician  has not taken an after picture as the external  aesthetics  were  
identical.
Mrs A has supplied  pictures of her kitchen  units, and it does appear that the style of the drawers 
matches the rest of the kitchen  units. The only difference I can identify is that one of the drawers  has 
a missing handle, and that one has a different handle  to the three directly above it. But Lloyds have 
explained that they only replaced the carcasses and reused the existing drawer  fronts and handles as 
these were not damaged  as a result of the insured event. So I dont  believe there has been a loss of 
match that ought to be compensated here.
kitchen worktop
Mrs A says she is not happy with the replacement kitchen worktop  because  it has a different texture  
and feel to her undamaged  worktop. She says that the replacement has a rough finish, whereas her 
existing worktop is a smooth marble effect,  and she is unhappy that she hasnt received an exact 
match.
In terms of replacing items, the policy sets out:
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead...we will pay the 
cost of replacement as new if available  or otherwise the nearest equivalent less any discounts 
obtainable.
Mrs A said she had found a contractor who could provide  an exact replacement of her original 
worktop. However, upon further enquiries  it transpired that the original worktop  was in fact no longer 
available. So I dont think its unreasonable  that Lloyds have not been able to offer an exact  
replacement in these  circumstances. But Ive considered whether Mrs A has suffered a loss of match.
Lloyds say they are not obliged to replace the undamaged worktop to match the new replacement,  as 
the policy  only covers damaged items. I appreciate this is what the policy says, and that Mrs A may 
have chosen the worktop. But she has still suffered a loss of match, so a compromise  is required, and 
I consider it fair and reasonable that compensation be paid in order  to reflect that loss of match.  
Ref: DRN68147725Our investigator recommended that Lloyds pay 50% towards the cost of replacing the undamaged  
worktop, irrespective of whether Mrs A would  look to actually get it replaced or not. But Lloyds say this 
would not be fair because Mrs A hasnt incurred an additional cost,  so any further payment for the 
undamaged worktop would  be a form of betterment. But I dont accept this argument. 
First, I do not consider this payment to be a form of betterment because before  the insured event, Mrs 
A had a kitchen with worktops  that matched. She no longer has this, so she has effectively lost a 
matching kitchen. Secondly, it doesnt matter if Mrs A chooses to have the undamaged worktop  
replaced or not. The payment isnt intended to reimburse the customer  for being out of pocket. It is 
intended as compensation for the loss of match and the fact that the Lloyds were unable to fully 
indemnify Mrs A and return  her kitchen to its pre-loss condition. 
So, given that Mrs A has suffered a loss of match, I intend asking  Lloyds to compensate her by paying 
50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged worktop, as I consider this to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
vinyl flooring
Mrs A raised concerns about the floor that was installed in her kitchen. I can see that Lloyds sent the 
contractors round to attend to any snagging issues  she had identified. But Mrs A remained  unhappy  
because the flooring continued to crack. Lloyds sent their contractors to inspect this cracking, and 
they established  that it was due to moisture coming in through  the patio doors  that was causing the 
floor underneath to become damp. So, given that this is unrelated to the insured event   and given 
that it doesnt amount to any other insured peril under the policy  such as flood or storm damage   
this isnt something Lloyds would be obliged  to repair, so I wont be asking them to do anything further 
with the cracked  floor. 
additional points raised
After Mrs A referred her complaint to this service, she raised two additional points  of complaint that 
she wanted  us to consider. The first was that her new worktop  installed by Lloyds  has since chipped.  
The second  was that the contractors had disposed  of levelling compound in the garden, which  has 
solidified and stuck  to a tree. 
Lloyds objected to us considering these additional points because  it did not form part of Mrs As initial 
complaint to them, and because  they hadnt  had the chance to investigate it. Technically this is 
correct, however I note that these points were first raised in the investigators assessment in January 
2019, meaning that Lloyds have had long enough to consider these  points.  And I also note that Lloyds  
has since looked into both points and has provided  us with their comments. So rather than this having 
to form the basis of a separate  complaint  (which  may or may not have to be dealt with again by this 
service), it seems to me the most pragmatic  course of action is to include these points within my 
decision. 
In terms of the chip on the worktop, Mrs A says this happened shortly after the worktop was installed. 
However, Lloyds dispute this as the work was completed in 2017, and say there was no damage to 
the worktop present  months  after when their personal claims consultant attended Mrs A property in 
February 2018 to inspect  the issues she was unhappy with. A photograph was also taken  which 
shows that the worktop was not chipped  or damaged  at that time. 
Having considered  the evidence, I havent seen enough evidence to suggest  that the chip has been 
caused by wear  and tear or because  the worktop was faulty in any way. And given that it appears to 
have occurred  sometime  after the worktop was installed (and having seen  pictures Mrs A has sent us) 
it seems more likely to me that it has been damaged accidentally. And Ive seen no independent  
evidence to suggest that the worktop is faulty or of such an inferior quality that it could be said to have 
been the cause of the damage Mrs A has since complained about. So I do not intend asking Lloyds  to 
rectify this.
Ref: DRN68147726In terms of the levelling  compound that has been disposed of in the garden,  there is very little 
evidence to suggest who put it there. Mrs A says it was the contractors, but Lloyds dispute this and 
say the contractors knew nothing  about it, and that there was nothing on their file to suggest that she 
had ever raised this as a concern at any point when they attended her property.
It isnt clear why Mrs A didnt  raise this as a concern with Lloyds when she initially complained about 
the quality of works that had been carried out, or why it was only first raised in 2019 despite the works 
and snagging issues being  attended to around a year earlier. But in the circumstances, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to suggest  that the contractors are responsible for this, so I do not intend  
asking Lloyds to do anything further  in relation to this.
compensation
In their final response, Lloyds acknowledged  that Mrs A had been put to some distress and 
inconvenience during  her claim, so they originally offered to pay £125 compensation  in recognition of 
their failings. However, our investigator recommended  that Lloyds pay a total of £325 compensation. 
But seeing as there is not enough evidence  to hold Lloyds responsible for the since damaged worktop 
or the levelling compound disposed  of in the garden, I dont intend asking them to pay this amount of 
compensation. 
However, I appreciate that there were issues  with the quality of works initially, and that the contractors  
had to come  back to rectify these on a couple of occasions. But I consider  the £125 Lloyds have 
already offered to be a fair reflection of the distress  and inconvenience this may have caused, so I 
only intend asking them  to pay this amount.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im minded to uphold  this complaint in part and intend asking Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited  to:
Pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged worktop due to the loss of match.
Pay £125  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
Ref: DRN6814772