K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS),  mis-sold her a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs B applied for a mortgage in 2000  during  a meeting. She was sold a MPPI policy in 
connection with the mortgage at the same  time.
The PPI wouldve covered Mrs B if she was off work  sick or lost  her job for up to 24 months 
per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this outcome but it is of course up to Mrs B whether she accepts or rejects  
my decision.
First of all Ive considered whether or not Mrs B was eligible  for the policy.  I understand that 
Mrs B doesnt think this point matters  as ultimately  she says she had no need for a policy. 
However, I need to consider it as if she was not eligible  then this would also mean that she 
had been mis-sold the policy. However,  having  considered Mrs Bs age, employment and 
residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mrs B was eligible for the policy.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mrs B that the PPI was optional and needed her consent  before 
it could be applied to her account. Mrs B was adamant  that she had never  agreed to taking a 
PPI policy  because she had no need  for one. She says she was not aware that she had 
been sold PPI and has no recollection  of ever discussing PPI. She explained that she never 
took PPI out on her first mortgage  and so questions why she would have taken it out with her 
second mortgage when she had a more highly paid job.
Obviously I wasnt present when the policy was sold so Ive looked  to the documents  from 
the time of the sale to help me decide  what  is more  likely to have happened during the sale. 
In particular I have  seen a letter from the representative which explains that Mrs B was given 
information about insurance against accident,  sickness and unemployment  and its cost. Ive 
seen a mortgage quotation  form which also sets out the cost of MPPI (referred to as 
mortgage repayments insurance) and importantly Ive been provided with a copy  of the MPPI 
application form which has been signed  by Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN69858562So all in all, while I appreciate what Mrs B has told us, the documents clearly  suggest that 
some discussion  did take place about PPI and Mrs B would have been aware she had been 
sold it. The application form confirms  that Mrs B chose to take it out. There  is nothing in 
these documents  which would  suggest that MPPI  was compulsory. So I think its more  likely 
that the MPPI was presented as optional and it was only applied  to Mrs Bs account because 
she chose to take it out. Of course its understandable that Mrs B may no longer remember 
this given how long ago the sale took place.
BoS accept they advised  Mrs B to take the policy out. This means  they had to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs B. I cant  say that BoS took all the steps as 
they shouldve.  But I do think  the policy was suitable  for Mrs B. This is because:
-The policy would have paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mrs B was off work 
sick or lost her job. Mrs B says she would have been entitled to at least six months  
full sick pay from her employer and would have had a redundancy package. 
However, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and for a much  longer 
period of time. 
-Mrs B has also told us she had savings which she could have used in the unlikely 
event that she was unable to work and that she also had two spare rooms that she 
could have let out. However,  I dont think this means the PPI was unsuitable  for her. 
This is because Mrs B could have  used her savings  for other essential living 
expenses while the PPI took care of her mortgage repayments. And although Mrs B 
says she could  have  let out two rooms if the need arose,  this is not something  that 
could be immediately guaranteed.
-Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by the more  restrictive terms in the 
policy which wouldve made  it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim. For 
example, terms relating to pre-existing medical  conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
-As this was a long term commitment, I think its possible that Mrs B may have wanted 
to remortgage and settle this mortgage early.  So Ive considered whether doing this 
would mean that she would  lose out financially. I note she wouldnt have. 
-I cant see that Mrs B had a particular  need to keep costs  down.  So I think  the policy 
was affordable for Mrs B.
BoS also had to give Mrs B clear  information  about  the policy so that she could  make  a 
proper choice about whether to take the policy out. In particular,  BoS should have given   
Mrs B clear  information about  the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions under the 
policy at the time of the sale.
I cant say that BoS gave  Mrs B all the information as they shouldve.  However,  this in itself 
doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think better information about the 
policy wouldve put Mrs B off taking it out. I say this for the same reasons that I think the 
policy was suitable  for Mrs B.
It follows that I dont think Mrs B was mis-sold this policy. Mrs B has made other points  such  
as saying that if she had applied for a refund a number of years ago then it is very likely 
would have been given a refund. I dont know what this is based on but this is not something  
Ref: DRN69858563which is relevant for my purposes as to whether or not the policy was mis-sold in the first 
place.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6985856