K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that between 2003 and 2010, Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  him 
several packaged bank accounts  (PBAs)  which he says he didnt want  or need.  He paid 
monthly fees for theses accounts and received several potential  benefits in return. 
Lloyds has accepted that it mis-sold one of the accounts to Mr W and has refunded him 
some of the fees he paid. But Mr W thinks that Lloyds mis-sold  him all the accounts. He 
thinks it should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt think  that Lloyds 
had treated him unfairly  and didnt recommend that it should  give him any more money back. 
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ws complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr W and Lloyds have  told us or sent us about the case  and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr W has banked  with Lloyds for quite a while and has changed accounts several times. 
Lloyds has told us that his account  history is as follows:
in November 2004, he opened a fee-free account 
in December 2005, he switched to a PBA called a Select account, for which he paid 
a fee
in May 2007, he switched to a PBA called a Silver  account, for which he paid a 
higher fee
in April 2009, he switched to a PBA called a Premier  account, for which  he paid a 
higher fee still
in June 2009, he switched back to the Silver account
in February 2019, he switched  back  to a fee-free account.
Mr W seems to have  accepted that this account history is accurate and I have taken it to be 
correct. 
Mr W has told us that he opened his first account shortly after he moved to the United 
Kingdom and started  to work here. Hes complained  that, upon  (his) arrival in 2004, (he)
needed to open a British  bank account.(and he) .. went to Lloyds  who told him the 
chosen package  bank account, had a £7 monthly  fee. (but did not) mention at any moment  
that there  was a possibility to open  an account  without fees.
Well over a decade has passed since Mr W opened  his first account, and I fully accept that 
he is doing his best to remember what happened. However, as Mr Ws account history  
Ref: DRN60775032shows, he didnt pay a fee for the first account  he opened with Lloyds. It was over a year 
later that Lloyds sold him the Silver account and he started to pay fees. In recent 
correspondence with us, Mr W seems  to have accepted this. So although I dont know  
exactly what happened at the time in question, it seems that Lloyds must have given Mr W a 
choice and that he initially opted for a fee-free account.  
It also seems  to me that once Mr W had held his fee-free account,  he was aware that they 
were available in the United Kingdom. And as I havent seen anything  to convince me that 
Lloyds withdrew this option  from him, I think its also likely that he knew he could have had a 
fee-free account  each time he changed  accounts. So I dont think that Lloyds mis-led Mr W 
into thinking that he had to pay a fee to have a bank account in the United Kingdom. 
However, just because Lloyds let Mr W know that he had a choice, it doesnt follow 
automatically that it treated him fairly  each time it sold him a new account. So I have looked 
at each change  in Mr Ws account history to see if Lloyds  may have mis-sold a particular 
account. 
Both parties  have agreed that Lloyds sold each account to Mr W during meetings  at one of 
its branches. For each  occasion, Lloyds has told us that it recommended Mr W to buy the 
new account, but on our questionnaire, Mr W indicated that Lloyds sold them to him on a 
non-advised or information  only  basis. 
For an information only sale, Lloyds  would have had to tell Mr W about  the new accounts 
features and costs  clearly  and fairly, so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it; for a 
recommended sale,  Lloyds would also have needed to check  that the new account was right 
for Mr Ws financial situation.  So in fairness  to Mr W, I have assessed his complaint  on the 
basis that Lloyds  recommended the accounts to him, as this placed greater obligations on 
Lloyds. 
Obviously, I cant tell exactly  what Lloyds  said, or didnt say, to Mr W during each meeting, 
but I think its highly likely  that it told him about at least some of each  accounts  benefits. 
After all, Lloyds  was trying to sell the new accounts  to Mr W and it would have been in its 
own interests to tell him what  he could gain if he bought them. Similarly, I think  its likely that 
Lloyds told Mr W how much each account  would cost him. Indeed, Mr W has told us that he 
knew about the fees and I dont think Lloyds misled him about this. So Im satisfied that 
Lloyds did enough  to let Mr W know what he could get with each account and how much  he 
would have to pay. 
Mr W has also mentioned that Lloyds forced him to take some of the accounts. I certainly  
accept that Lloyds may have encouraged Mr W to buy the new accounts, but as Im satisfied 
that it let him know he had choices, Im not convinced that it forced  the accounts on to him. 
Turning now to whether  it was reasonable for Lloyds to make each of its recommendations, 
Ive considered each  occasion in turn.
the Select account  (2005)
This was the first PBA that Lloyds sold to Mr W. The potential benefits  it offered 
included car breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. I understand that Mr W 
used a mobile phone and I gather that shortly after he took the account he registered 
for this insurance. Although Mr W has recently told us that he never owned a car, 
Lloyds has sent us some records  from the time which show  that it discussed the 
Ref: DRN60775033breakdown cover with him during the meeting. So it seems to me that Mr W had a 
potential need  for some  of the benefits  the account  could provide.  I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Select  account to Mr W.
the Silver  account  (2007)
This account provided many of the same benefits  as the Select  account  and also 
included European  travel insurance. I understand that Mr W travelled in Europe from 
time-to-time most years, so he had a potential need for this additional benefit.  I think  it 
was reasonable  for Lloyds to recommend that Mr W should change  from the Select to 
the Silver  account.  
the Premier account  (2009)
This account provided many of the same benefits  as the Silver account and also 
included worldwide travel  insurance, a more comprehensive car breakdown  service  
and home  emergency  cover. Its not clear that Mr W had a potential need for these  
additional benefits. For example, he doesnt seem  to have  travelled  outside Europe so 
may not have needed worldwide travel insurance, and he didnt own a home so 
probably didnt  need the home emergency cover. I dont  think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to recommend  this account to him.
the Silver  account  (2009)
Mr W changed back to this account  only a few months  after Lloyds sold him the 
Premier account. I dont  know if he did this during  a meeting with Lloyds or 
independently of his own accord.  Either way, I dont think Lloyds did anything  
significantly wrong here. If it did recommend that Mr W should return to the Silver 
account then for the same  reasons I have given  previously, I think  its recommendation 
would have been reasonable. 
So, in summary,  I think Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to Mr W, but not the other  
accounts. However, I understand that Lloyds has already refunded Mr W the difference in 
fees that he paid for the Premier account compared  to what  he would have paid if he had 
kept the Silver account  throughout the period in question, plus interest. I think this was a fair 
resolution to Mr Ws complaint and I am not going to tell Lloyds to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any more money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.  
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077503