K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1992. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr C says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
There isnt very much  to go on, as the sale took place so long ago. But I havent seen 
enough to make me think that FICL didnt make it clear the PPI was optional  or didnt get 
Mr Cs agreement before adding the cover.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide whether the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example Mr C says the policy exclusions werent explained and the 
policy costs werent made clear.  But based  on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time, he wasnt affected by any of the limits on or exclusions to the cover  so I dont think  
more information  about those wouldve made a difference to his decision. Also Mr Cs work  
sick pay wouldve reduced after six months. For a successful sickness  or unemployment 
claim the PPI couldve paid out for longer and until the card balance  was cleared. And Mr C 
has told us he didnt  have  any savings to help with his card payments  if he couldnt work. So 
it seems like the benefit wouldve been useful  to Mr C. Taking  everything  into account, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mr C off taking  the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mr Cs points,  including what hes said about the secure  nature of 
his job making redundancy unlikely and FICL not telling him he could look elsewhere  for PPI. 
But FICL didnt have to tell Mr C about PPI it didnt sell. And what Mr C has said about his 
employer and job security  doesnt persuade me that at the time of the sale he couldnt in 
future suffer a loss of income due to redundancy. So, for these reasons and in the light of all 
Ive said above  already,  these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
Ref: DRN62400002ombudsman
Ref: DRN6240000