K820x#14complaint
Mr A took out a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy at the same time as a loan with 
HFC Bank Limited (HFC). He is unhappy that when he complained the PPI was mis-sold 
HFC said there was no financial loss relating to the PPI.
background
Mr A bought some goods and an extended warranty in April 1999  at a cost of £834.99. He 
paid a deposit of £200.00 and took out a loan for £634.99 to pay the rest of the cost. 
Alongside the loan he took out a PPI policy, referred to in the Loan Agreement  as Credit 
Protection Insurance. The loan was to be repaid over 48 months but had a 12 months  
interest free period.  Mr A paid off the balance owing on the loan account after 11 months so 
taking advantage of the interest free period. 
Mr A has complained to HFC that the PPI was mis-sold.  HFC agreed Mr A had taken out the 
PPI but said on settlement of the loan the cost of the PPI had been credited to the account, 
so Mr A was not financially disadvantaged because he bought the PPI.
Mr A didnt agree with what  HFC said and brought his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2020,  a copy  of which  is attached 
to and forms part of this final decision.  I said I didnt  think HFC owed anything to Mr A as he 
wasnt out of pocket for any PPI costs, all the costs  being removed when Mr A settled the 
loan.
HFC has provided no further comments or evidence.
Mr A has responded in detail to my provisional decision and does not agree with my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A bought goods  at a cost of £655.99 and also purchased an extended warranty,  called a 
Mastercare Coverplan Service Agreement, at a cost of £179.00. The total cost of his spend 
was £834.99 and after paying a deposit  of £200.00  he borrowed the remaining £634.99.
When Mr A first brought his complaint to this service  he said he PPI cost was part of the 
£179.00 which he was charged for the Service Agreement.  He has said that this £179.00 
included £110.40  for the PPI policy. As explained in my provisional decision that was not the 
case as the Service  Agreement  was unrelated to the PPI. The Service Agreement  explained  
what was included for the £179.00 and this was for an extended warranty  totally  unrelated to 
the PPI. 
Mr A has made no further reference to this in his response to my provisional  decision or 
indicated this £179.00 included the PPI premium. So I assume he has accepted  the 
explanation about the cost of the Service Agreement and I shall not comment further on that 
in this decision.
Ref: DRN62199422Basically, the Loan Agreement shows the facts are that Mr A borrowed £634.99  to pay for 
his goods over a period of 48 months. But if he repaid the loan within  12 months  he did not 
have to pay any interest on the amount  he borrowed. He also selected on the Loan  
Agreement to take out a PPI policy, the cost of this was at a rate of 9.9099% of his monthly  
payment.
Mr A repaid  his loan after 11 monthly payments of £23.25 had been made. The settlement 
letter sent to Mr A in March 2000  said the balance on his account at that time was £379.24 
and if he paid that he would not pay any interest. Mr A did make  payment of that amount in 
full.
If that amount of £379.24 is added to the total of the monthly repayments made during the 
11 months the loan was running it comes to £634.99. This was the exact amount that Mr A 
had borrowed under the Loan Agreement for his goods, without any interest  or PPI costs 
added. 
Based on the facts,  as shown by the Loan  Agreement, the settlement  letter  and the 
statements Mr A provided, it is clear he had only paid to HFC £634.99 in total when the loan 
was settled. I have  seen no evidence that any additional amount, paid by him for the PPI, 
was retained by HFC when he settled the loan.  So anything  he had paid as part of his 
monthly payments  for PPI must have been  removed when  Mr A settled the account. 
I have looked  carefully  at everything Mr A has said about this matter. He is clearly unhappy 
with my provisional decision.  In that decision I tried to respond to some of the points  Mr A 
had made  and I apologise if any of this was confusing.
I am not intending  to respond  in detail to all the issues  Mr A has made  in his response to my 
provisional decision as many are similar  to what has been  said previously. I dont agree with 
everything Mr A has said in his response, for example that all parties agree the PPI was mis-
sold. HFC has never said the PPI was mis-sold, only that it wasnt upholding Mr As 
complaint as he had suffered no financial loss because he took out the PPI.
Mr A disputes the wording  in HFCs correspondence and in my provisional decision  as he 
says they do not take into account what he believes is vital information  in the documents 
available, these being the Loan Agreement, the Settlement Letter dated March 2000  and his 
statements. He has also provided  calculations of the loan and interest over 48 months.  
I have considered all the documents and evidence provided and looked  at Mr As analysis 
and calculations. However, I have seen nothing  to show that at the end of the loan he has 
paid any more than he borrowed, that is the amount of £634.99 as stated in the Loan  
Agreement. 
Whatever the method used by HFC to remove any PPI charges from the final settlement 
amount may not be totally clear, but it does not alter the fact that Mr A only paid back  what  
he borrowed. I have  seen nothing to show that at the end of the loan arrangement  Mr A was 
out of pocket for any costs of the PPI.
Mr A would have been covered by the PPI whilst the loan was active  and he was making 
monthly payments,  HFC has confirmed this. But on settlement  anything  he paid for PPI was 
taken into account  in the settlement figure and removed from what he paid in total.  
Ref: DRN62199423Therefore, with no evidence to show  that Mr A remains  out of pocket for any of cost of the 
PPI after the loan ended,  I cannot  see any reasons to change the findings I made in my 
provisional decision. 
I have seen nothing  to show Mr A has any financial loss and I do not uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I am not upholding  Mr As complaint that HFC Bank  
Limited owes him compensation as I cannot see he is out of pocket for any costs of the PPI. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN62199424Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr A is unhappy  that HFC Bank Limited  (HFC)  have said there was no financial loss related to a 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  he took out at the same time as a loan.
background
Mr A bought some goods  in April 1999 and took out a loan over 48 months to pay for them. He also at 
the same time took out a Mastercare Coverplan  Service Agreement and a PPI policy.  The PPI is 
referred to in the Loan Agreement as Credit Protection Insurance.  The loan had a 12 months interest 
free period and shortly  before this ended Mr A paid off the balance owing on the loan. 
Mr A complained to HFC that the PPI had been  mis-sold. HFC did not dispute Mr A had taken out the 
PPI but said on settlement  the cost of the PPI had been credited to the account and so Mr A was not 
financially disadvantaged because  he bought the PPI.
Mr A didnt agree  and brought  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator said there was nothing for 
HFC to pay so didnt uphold Mr As complaint. So Mr A asked  for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A bought goods at a cost of £655.99 and also purchased an extended warranty,  called a 
Matercare Coverplan Service  Agreement, at a cost of £179.00. Therefore,  the total cost of his spend 
was £834.99. He paid a deposit of £200.00 so borrowed the remaining  amount of £634.99.
Mr A had indicated he thinks the PPI cost was part of the £179.00 which he was charged for the 
Service Agreement. He has said that this £179.00 included £110.40 for the PPI policy. That is not the 
case. This Service Agreement was nothing at all to do with the PPI. The copy of the Service 
Agreement that has been provided explains what is included for the cost of £179.00. This includes 
repairs, replacement, accidental damage protection, theft etc.
This service agreement is effectively an extension of the one year Manufacturers Warranty to add a 
further four years cover, to provide five years  cover in total. On the loan agreement  this extended 
warranty is shown as 1+4 years. Plus the Service Agreement  provides some additional  cover, for 
example for theft.  None of this £179.00 cost for the extended warranty was for PPI cover.
The PPI cost is explained  in the Loan Agreement Document. It says in The Schedule  on the Loan 
Agreement that if the PPI (Credit Protection Insurance) is taken out that the premium is 9.9099% of 
the monthly repayment amount. On this Loan  Agreement  I can see that the box to select  the PPI was 
been ticked.
So when Mr A was making his monthly repayments of £23.25 around 10% of this was deemed to be 
the cost of the PPI. If Mr A had paid his monthly payment  for the full term of the loan he would have 
paid £1,116.00 in total. This figure would have included the amount Mr A borrowed of £634.99, the 
PPI cost and interest  on what  he had borrowed. 
Mr As agreement gave him a 12 months interest free period. Mr A settled his loan after 11 monthly 
payments and didnt pay any interest on his borrowings. As he settled the loan before the interest 
started he should have expected to pay what he had borrowed for his own use (£634.99), plus the 
Ref: DRN62199425costs of the PPI for the 11 month  period  which  would  have been around £25.30. So this would have 
been £660.29.
But when Mr A settled the loan account  the settlement  figure  HFC gave to him was for £379.24 to 
clear the loan in full. If you add this amount to the 11 monthly payments of £23.25 (£255.75)  it comes 
to £634.99. This was the amount Mr A actually owed  for full payment  of his own borrowings  for his 
goods and the Service Agreement warranty extension without any  costs of the PPI included.
When HFC worked  out the settlement figure it had used everything Mr A had paid when making his 
monthly payments to pay towards the amount he had borrowed for the goods and extended warranty.  
So he didnt then pay anything for the PPI. If he had, his settlement figure  would  have been £23.25 
higher at £402.49.
Although Mr A technically  paid for the costs of the PPI when making his 11 monthly payments, on 
settlement the amount for the policy was removed by using all the monthly  payments made to pay 
towards the cost of what he borrowed for his own use. So he wasnt out of pocket  for any PPI costs.
Mr A states that the sum of £634.99 is the cost of goods and service, and not his goods only.  But he 
borrowed the money  to pay for the Service  Agreement he bought, which  was to extend  the warranty.  
This Service Agreement was nothing to do with the PPI.
In summary from what I have seen so far, I think  the PPI costs paid as part of Mr As monthly  
repayments were removed  before the settlement figure was provided. So Mr A has paid £834.99 in 
total for the cost of his goods and the extended warranty service agreement he bought.  He has paid 
nothing for the PPI cost and so has no financial loss even though he was sold the PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I am not intending to uphold Mr As complaint  as I cannot  see he is 
out of pocket  for any costs  of the PPI. Therefore I am not going to tell HFC Bank Limited  to pay 
anything to Mr A as compensation  for any mis-sale.
This is subject to any further information that is provided  by either  party  by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6219942