K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI) with their mortgage. 
background
For the avoidance of doubt Mr and Mrs S took out a package of protection  under the heading 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) which included life and critical illness  cover. But this 
complaint is only about the PPI elements  accident,  sickness  and unemployment  of the 
plan.
In 2003 Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage during  a meeting. At the same time they also 
took out PPI designed to protect  their mortgage  payments  in the event either of them was off 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The cover  was split equally between  
them, so that in the event  of one of them  claiming  on the policy  it would pay out a 50% share  
of the total benefit.
The PPI element of the overall cover  cost less than £20 a month.
Mr and Mrs S mortgage became regulated  when  the mortgage was changed  around  2005.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought BoS made it clear Mr 
and Mrs S had a choice  about PPI and they agreed  to take it out. And there was nothing to 
suggest the policy was unsuitable  for them. The adjudicator also said that BoS had no 
record to support what Mr and Mrs S said about  being told they couldnt claim for an existing 
medical condition  soon after the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs S disagree, they say they had sick pay to cover themselves  and they felt 
pressured to take out the cover. Theyve also repeated the point about the turned down 
claim.
The complaint has therefore been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this.
BoS no longer  holds  copies of Mr and Mrs S paperwork completed at the time. But it 
has provided example  copies, which  is says would have been  used in PPI sales  
around the time Mr and Mrs S took out PPI. These are examples weve seen before 
and these make it clear that PPI is optional and that customers have to agree to take 
it out.
Ref: DRN65331062So in the absence of sufficient evidence  to persuade me that something different 
happened in Mr and Mrs S case,  I think they likely saw and completed  similar  
paperwork. This means I think  they understood they had a choice and they agreed to 
take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they felt pressured to take it out but theyve not elaborated 
on why they felt this way. As I have explained  below, BoS recommended  the cover,  
so I accept the adviser most likely encouraged them to take it out given  he/she  felt it 
was right for them. But Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade  me that the 
adviser went further than that and pressured  them  to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover. 
Mr and Mrs S say they had sufficient  existing means so PPI wasnt necessary. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to these means  and for longer if necessary  up 
to 24 months per claim.  So I dont think their existing means made the PPI unsuitable 
 particularly as the cover was protecting their mortgage payments and ultimately 
their home.
I can see Mr and Mrs S say that Mr S had an existing  medical  condition  at the time 
and that when he contacted BoS about  making  a claim shortly after the policy was 
taken out, it said he couldnt claim because his condition was pre-existing.
Firstly  I can see that BoS internal  records show that based on information taken 
from Mr and Mrs S at the time, Mr S appears  to have said No to having any existing  
conditions. But in any event the policy they took out did not exclude  existing medical  
conditions because they took it out at the same time as taking out their mortgage.
BoS also doesnt hold a record  of any contact with Mr and/or Mrs S around this time 
about a turned down claim or an enquiry of that nature. As such I cant  comment  any 
further on this particular point. But if Mr and Mrs S can provide more information  and 
evidence about  this specific point, we might  be able to look at it further.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like the wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong as I highlighted above.  It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN65331063So overall I find PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S in their particular circumstances at the 
time and despite  the possibility that BoS didnt do all that it should fairly and reasonably have 
done, I dont think  Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently and declined the cover had 
BoS done anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs S complaint, so I 
make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6533106