K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) asked him to pay his remaining premium  
when he decided to cancel his car insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the way UKI 
treated him.
background
Mr H contacted UKI to cancel his policy. UKI told him hed have to pay the remaining 
premium because a claim had been made  on the policy.  Mr H complained as he didnt think  
he needed to pay and because he felt he wasnt treated  appropriately over the phone. 
UKI responded explaining why the remaining premium was due and said that there wasnt 
evidence of an agent treating Mr H inappropriately. UKI later offered some compensation to 
Mr H for poor service.  
Mr H asked this service  to step in as he remained unhappy. He said hes being chased for 
the remaining  premium  by a debt collection agency. Mr H says hes been shouted  at over 
the phone  and feels UKI has discriminated  against  him because of his health problems.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he felt that UKI had acted  fairly  overall.  Mr H 
didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know Mr H will find this disappointing, so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the cancellation terms for Mr Hs policy. The relevant part of these terms 
explain that if a policy is cancelled after the initial 14 day period and a claim has been made 
then the balance of the years premium becomes payable. Mr H cancelled his policy  and a 
claim had been  made. So I dont  think  UKI acted unfairly in asking him to pay his remaining 
premium. It was entitled to do this under  the policy terms.  Its also standard industry practice.
Mr H put it to UKI that if hed paid the premium in full and then cancelled the policy mid-term 
hed expect a refund of premium. That would be correct if there hadnt been a claim on the 
policy. But if thered  been a claim  then no refund would be due.
UKI told Mr H the balance of premium  was due because the claim was still open. I dont think  
that was correct, and it probably confused things a bit. The premium  would have been due 
whether the claim  was open or closed.
Mr H is unhappy that UKI passed the recovery of the remaining premium to a debt collection 
agency. I can understand that this could  be quite distressing, particularly because  of Mr Hs 
health issues and that he said he couldnt pay the remaining premium. But I dont think UKI 
treated Mr H unfairly by doing so. It seems  UKI attempted to help Mr H by offering him a 
payment plan. This is something Id reasonably  expect UKI to have done once Mr H told it 
about his circumstances. 
I cant say for certain, but it seems Mr H didnt take up this offer so a payment plan wasnt  
put in place by UKI. As UKI was entitled  to ask for the balance  to be paid, I dont think it 
Ref: DRN64741152acted unreasonably by referring the balance  to a debt collection agency. UKI says it did this 
to encourage  the arrangement of a payment plan as it thought  this would be easier for Mr H 
given his circumstances. I think UKI acted  fairly  by doing so. 
Mr H said UKI discriminated  against  him because  of his health problems. He mentioned  
having breakdowns over the phone and being  shouted at. Mr H also said one of UKIs  
advisors told him there  wouldnt be any charge  if he cancelled the policy.  
Ive listened to the calls and I havent heard enough to make  me think  UKI treated  Mr H 
unfairly  certainly  not enough  to suggest UKI acted in a way that could be construed as 
being discriminatory. I think UKI would have asked any policyholder  to pay the remaining 
premium, so I dont think it treated Mr H differently in this respect.  Theres  one call in which 
the conversation  Mr H had with a manager got a little heated with both parties talking over 
each other.  I can understand why this wouldve resulted in Mr H becoming upset and 
distressed. Although there  are probably things the manager could have said or done  
differently, I didnt hear enough to conclude  that UKI should pay Mr H further  compensation.
UKI didnt  say in any of the conversations I listened  to that there wouldnt be a charge if Mr H 
cancelled the policy. In the call where  Mr H first told UKI that he wanted to cancel the policy 
and UKI first told him about the remaining premium that was owed Mr H repeatedly  said that 
he had no money and UKIs advisor  said I understand.  Mr H later said that he wasnt  going 
to pay anything extra and UKIs advisor  said no worries.  I dont think thats the same  as 
UKI telling Mr H that there wouldnt be any further charge. In the other calls UKI consistently 
told Mr H that it would charge him for the remaining premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6474115