K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a car he financed  through an agreement with Blue Motor  Finance Ltd 
(BMF) is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr R took receipt of a used car in June 2018.  He financed the deal through a three  year hire 
purchase agreement.  At the point  of supply the car was about eight years  old.
But he experienced several faults  with the car, as follows:
August 2018   door lock motor  fault
October 2018  knocking noise investigation  and repair
November 2018  new cambelt and camshaft  sensor
December 2018  gearbox diagnosis  and clean
January 2019   gearbox service
January 2019   informed that a new gearbox  would be required
He complained to BMF  but they said theyd need  him to demonstrate  that the faults were 
present when the car was supplied  to him as this was the point at which they were 
responsible for the quality of the car. They  eventually  agreed to arrange  an independent 
inspection of the car. The inspector noted  that the gearbox kept losing gear but he didnt 
think the fault was likely to be developing at the point of supply. 
So Mr R referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She 
thought the car hadnt been sufficiently durable. She appreciated that the car had completed  
38,000 miles and was around nine years old at the time but she didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect  Mr R to spend  £932  repairing  it within  the first six months of ownership.
So she thought BMF should terminate  the finance  agreement; take the car back  and refund 
Mr Rs deposit. And she thought it was clear hed been inconvenienced  and the business 
should pay him a further £300  in recognition  of the poor experience hed had. She thought 
the repair costs  should  also be refunded and she provided a summary of these, explaining 
that the costs  incurred  in January didnt include VAT which would have to be calculated  
manually as some items on the invoice were  unrelated.
But BMF didnt agree with the adjudicator and they asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN65798642board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr R acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF are responsible 
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
But BMFs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Wed usually assume that if a car developed a fault in the first six months it was likely to 
have been there from the point of supply  but if it happened after that wed usually  look to the 
consumer to prove this was the case. 
Within the first six months  Mr R complained  of several issues.  These werent considered  by 
the independent engineer. There was a fault with a door lock motor; the cambelt; a cambelt 
sensor; the car was returned  on several  occasions to have a turbo lag investigated  and there 
was a knocking noise that needed  investigation. The adjudicator  has explained that these 
issues cost Mr R over £900. 
If a fault occurs on a vehicle the business are entitled to a chance to repair it. But relevant 
legislation does not give a business one chance  to repair each separate fault that may occur. 
Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers  to the vehicle as a whole not 
each separate  component. Indeed the more  separate faults - the more  likely it is the vehicle 
isnt of satisfactory quality.
I take into account the age of the vehicle when considering what is satisfactory quality. This 
wasnt a new car but it had only completed about 37,000 miles at the point of supply. So 
whilst I would have expected some faults  through normal  wear and tear I dont think  a 
reasonable person would expect to spend  £930  on repairs  to a vehicle  of this age in the first 
six months.
The relevant  legislation  also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory quality, we should  
consider whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. And here I dont think  that 
can be the case.
I think a reasonable  person would expect  a gearbox  to last much longer than Mr Rs. And 
when taken together with the other problems Mr R has experienced on his car, in such  a 
short space of time, I think they suggest  that this vehicle hasnt been  of satisfactory quality 
as it hasnt been suitably durable.
So I think BMF should  allow Mr R to reject his car and terminate his finance agreement as it 
isnt of satisfactory quality  because  there  were faults  with the vehicle at the point of supply 
that werent successfully  resolved and also because  it hasnt proven to be suitably durable.
In line with this services usual approach in these  matters they should refund Mr Rs deposit 
and refund the repair costs of about £1,200  that he wouldnt have to have paid if the car was 
of the requisite standard. 
Its clear Mr R has been inconvenienced by these  issues. Ive seen  hes frequently  had to 
attend the garage to have problems identified and that hes engaged in lengthy  
Ref: DRN65798643communications with the dealership. I think, with this in mind, compensation of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing more to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr R
refund  Mr Rs £600 deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
pay Mr R £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse information  they may have  reported to Mr Rs credit  file in 
relation to this issue
reimburse Mr R for the repairs hes had to complete on the car at an estimated cost 
of £1,200 and on provision of the receipts from him
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6579864