K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly  registered a default  against borrowing 
she says was the responsibility of her ex husband.
background
Ms K had a joint account with her husband.  She says that in 2012 after they separated she 
asked Lloyds to remove her name from the account.  It has no record  of this. It later 
transferred an unplanned overdraft balance  on the account to its collections department in 
August 2013.  It made formal demand  in September 2013 and registered a default against  
both of the recorded account holders in October  2013. The debit balance  at the time was 
£1,348.07. Ms K has offered  to pay £1,000 to settle  the debt but wants  the default removed.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that there was no 
record that Ms K had asked that her name  be removed from the account. Or that she had 
changed her address  details with Lloyds - as she was reasonably required to do. As a result 
Lloyds could fairly deem correspondence sent to the address it had on record  as correctly  
sent to her. He was satisfied that the letters sent to both account  holders at that address 
provided the appropriate notice. And he said that he thought Ms K was fairly responsible  for 
this debt. 
Ms K, who is represented in this complaint did not agree.  Her representative  said that Lloyds 
was in breach  of its requirements to provide notices relating to the debt. And as a result       
Ms K wants an amicable settlement. Her offer to pay £1,000  on condition the default is 
removed stands.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time Ms K says she spoke to Lloyds about  the separation there  was no overdraft 
balance on the account. There is no record she did so. At that time there was an overdraft  
limit of £1,200. In my view Lloyds would not have allowed the account  to continue operating 
in this way if it had known there was a dispute.  But an overdraft did build up on the account 
to a level in excess  of the limit.
I agree  with the investigator that based  on the evidence Ive seen Ms K remained jointly and 
severally liable for that borrowing  and Im afraid  thats even if she did not make any of the 
payments that caused it.
There is no record that she changed  her address details with Lloyds. The notices about the 
account were sent to an address where she was not living.  So I am not going to be looking 
any further into those  notices which she says she could not anyway have seen. That does 
not make  any difference to the outcome here.  Im satisfied  Lloyds  followed  a reasonable 
process to make demand  and then it fairly recorded that there  was a default because  the 
borrowing was not repaid.
So I dont  have a basis to ask it to remove that default. It may be that it will accept a 
settlement of less than the amount outstanding. But thats something Ms K will need to 
pursue directly with Lloyds.
Ref: DRN63993062my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6399306