K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him
irresponsibly.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in October  2020  that I summarise  below.
Mr H was given a loan for £3,500 by Everyday  Loans in June 2018. The loan was due to be
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around  £275.  The total amount payable, including
interest was just over £9,913. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
Everyday Loans  needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income 
and expenditure.  With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Everyday  Loans  was required to establish  whether  Mr H could sustainably repay 
his loan - not just whether  the loan payments were technically  affordable on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation.
There were several overarching questions I needed to consider in order  to decide whats
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself
that Mr H would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way? If not, what  would
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
2. Ultimately, did Everyday Loans  make  a fair lending  decision?
3. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
I carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about  this
matter and what it means for Mr H.
Everyday Loans  carried out some checks  before it gave the loan to Mr H. This included
asking for details of his income and expenditure and acquiring a credit report, payslip and
bank statement. It assessed that the loan was affordable for him. On the face of it, Mr Hs
income would  seem  to have been  sufficient for him to afford the monthly loan repayments.
But Mr H was applying to Everyday Loans  for an expensive  loan which was repayable over a
long period. If the loan ran to term, Mr H would have  to repay over £9,000. The rules  and
guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable  directly  relates  to the
amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers  financial
situation.
From what  Id seen, Everyday Loans  was aware from its checks  that Mr H already had over
£23,000 of outstanding debt, from other  loans and hire purchase,  as well as a credit card
balance of nearly £4,000. Mr H appeared to be committing around 34% of his monthly  
income to servicing  his existing debt. There was also evidence  on Mr Hs bank statement 
that he had been borrowing from at least two other  short-term lenders and that he was also 
gambling. Mr H also took another loan from a high cost lender for around  £5,000  around the 
time he was applying to Everyday  Loans. I hadnt  seen anything  to suggest whether 
Ref: DRN60178382Everyday Loans  asked Mr H if he had taken any other loans, beyond those it was made  
aware of at the time.
I appreciate that Everyday  Loans  took Mr Hs outstanding credit commitments  into account
when it assessed  his loan application. But I thought  Everyday Loans  ought reasonably  to 
have questioned why this consumer, who apparently  had a reasonable level of disposable
income, had incurred quite such a level of existing debt and was needing to take further
costly loans - including borrowing from other  short  term, high cost lenders. Taking things in
the round,  I think Everyday Loans  ought  reasonably  to have realised  that this was a
consumer who was experiencing financial difficulties  and, despite having already taken a
considerable amount of loans and credit,  might  be struggling to get out from under his
financial problems.
Everyday Loans  thinks the loan was affordable  for Mr H, based on its analysis of his
income and expenditure. But as Id already explained. Everyday Loans was required to
establish whether  Mr H could sustainably make  his loan repayments - not just whether the
loan payments were  technically  affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that
this is the case.  And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make  their
payments, it follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,
that a borrower  wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further.
Mr H appeared to be able to service a high level of debt because  of the level of his income. 
But on balance, I thought Everyday Loans ought  reasonably to have realised that Mr H was 
most likely over committed financially; that there were indications he was having  difficulty  
managing his finances and it was likely he would need to borrow elsewhere to repay his 
loan. I thought Everyday Loans  ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that 
Mr H would have been able to sustainably repay his loan over the three-year loan term. So it 
should reasonably have  concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Id not seen anything that made me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or
unreasonably towards  Mr H in some  other  way. But I didnt think  Everyday Loans
should have provided the loan to him. So I intended to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr H told us he 
accepted my provisional decision. Ive not seen any response or further comments from 
Everyday Loans.  The deadline for any further comments  is now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter 
and Mr H for responding to my provisional decision.  Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about  this complaint, I confirm the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN60178383I dont think Everyday Loans should have  provided Mr H with the loan. So Everyday Loans 
should put things right.
Putting things  right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay  the principal amount he has borrowed, as
he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges  on a loan that
shouldnt have been provided to him. 
Everyday Loans  should:
a) Remove  all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset,  and treat
any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments  of the principal
on that loan.
b) If this results  in Mr H having made  overpayments  then Everyday Loans should  refund
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled.
c) If an outstanding balance remains then Everyday  Loans should  try to agree an
affordable repayment  plan with Mr H, bearing in mind the need  to treat him positively
and sympathetically  in these discussions.
d) Remove  any adverse information recorded about  the loan from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday  Loans to deduct  tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans  should give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much  tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Everyday Lending Limited  
trading as Everyday  Loans to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6017838