K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that:
The early repayment charge  (ERC) that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc would have charged 
him was unfair.
About  the way Bank of Ireland  applied  overpayments to the mortgage.
background
In 2014, Mr K took out a mortgage with Bank of Ireland. The mortgage had a fixed rate of 
3.69% until 31 May 2019. The mortgage  offer set out that an ERC of 5% of the balance  
being repaid would apply  if the mortgage was repaid on or before 31 May 2019.
Mr K repaid  the mortgage  in June  2019  and didnt  pay the ERC.
ERC
Mr K considers that the ERC is unfair. He says that he was unaware that the ERC was a 
fixed 5% of the balance  over the whole tie-in  period  rather than a sliding  amount. 
Mr K referred to the Financial Conduct  Authoritys rules that say an ERC must be a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result  of the customer  repaying the amount due 
under the regulated mortgage  contract  and the high-level principle that firms  must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Mr K says that the total amount of interest  that Bank  of Ireland would earn over the last 12 
months of the mortgage would be less than the ERC. So he thinks  that Bank of Ireland 
would profit from the ERC, which goes against the FCAs rules.
Mr K says that he wasnt able to remortgage  to take advantage of cheaper interest rates  
because of the ERC.
overpayments
In 2016, Mr K made an overpayment to his mortgage. He says he asked that his mortgage  
payment stay the same, but Bank of Ireland said it would recalculate the monthly payment or 
Mr K would need to apply  for a new term, incurring  the ERC. Mr K said he had no alternative  
but to accept the recalculated monthly payment.
In 2018, Mr K made another overpayment. In January 2019, Mr K asked about making 
another overpayment   he says he assumed that the 10% overpayment allowance reset  
every calendar year or on the anniversary of the product. But Bank of Ireland said the 
allowance was for every financial  year.
Mr K considers that the contract he has with Bank of Ireland  fixed the amount of the monthly 
payments over the tie-in period  so the bank should not have reduced the monthly  payment  
when he made an overpayment.  By changing the monthly payment the agreement  was no 
longer a fixed term contract.
Ref: DRN63248742Bank of Ireland  referred  to the residential mortgage  conditions, which  it considers allows it to 
reduce the monthly payment when an overpayment is made. But Mr K says that the bank 
was unable to show where he had agreed to those conditions.
Mr K says that the bank has circumvented the terms and condition to maximise the amount 
of interest [it accrues] by reducing  [his] monthly  payment  and that he had no choice other  
than to accept  that or pay the ERC. He also says that the bank is holding  him to the letter  of 
the contract  while not fully adhering to it. As a result, he says he has been unable  to arrange 
a new mortgage  deal. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said that the way that Bank  
of Ireland calculated  the ERC  was reasonable. In regard to the overpayments, she said that 
the offer set out that the annual  overpayment  allowance would run for the financial year up to 
1 April. The investigator said that reducing the payments following the overpayments wasnt 
a breach of the mortgage contract. 
Mr K didnt accept what the investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERC
The mortgage offer set out clearly and prominently that an ERC would apply if Mr K repaid 
his mortgage on or before  31 May 2019.  Im satisfied that Bank  of Ireland took reasonable 
steps to bring  the ERC to Mr Ks attention before he took out the mortgage.  By accepting the 
mortgage offer Mr K agreed to its terms  and that included  the amount of the ERC  and that 
it would  be payable if he repaid the mortgage  during the tie-in  period. 
It is difficult to see how Mr K could have understood that he had agreed to an ERC where 
the percentage payable  reduced  every  year. The offer says that the ERC is 5% of the 
amount paid. As Mr K agreed to the mortgage,  I dont consider that it would have been 
unreasonable for Bank of Ireland to apply the ERC if he had repaid the mortgage. 
Mr K is correct  that the relevant  rules require the ERC to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
cost to Bank  of Ireland  of the mortgage being  repaid early. But its important to remember  
that the ERC  is only required to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to the lender  so if 
the actual cost was more  or less it wouldnt be a breach of the rules.  And the rules go on to 
say that the pre-estimate can be made across a tranche  of mortgages sharing the same 
features. So the loss that the lender  is estimating is across all of the mortgages of the same  
type as Mr Ks  not just Mr Ks.
It also follows that there is no set requirement  for lenders to calculate the ERC in a certain 
way. So a fixed percentage over the whole  tie-in period is not necessarily unfair.  But it is for 
the lender to show me that it has estimated the ERC fairly and reasonably. To do that Bank 
of Ireland has given  me details of how it estimated the cost of the mortgage being  repaid 
early. It has provided this information  in confidence as it is commercially  sensitive.  I can 
accept information  in confidence  when  it is appropriate to do so  and I am satisfied that 
there is good reason to do so in this case.
Ref: DRN63248743Im afraid that means I cant explain to Mr K in detail how Bank of Ireland  estimate  its costs.  
But I have considered very carefully the information it has provided.  Having done so, Im 
satisfied that the way Bank of Ireland estimated its costs was reasonable. It includes the 
following elements  in its calculation:
To reflect the ongoing cost of funding the mortgage that would continue even when it 
was repaid.
The cost of incentives given when the loan was taken out that it wont have the chance to 
recoup.
Other costs associated with the mortgage  that it will lose the chance  to mitigate.
Benchmarking against  competitors.
Im satisfied that these  are all reasonable things  to take into account  when  estimating  the 
cost of a tranche of mortgages being repaid early. 
Bank of Ireland  has also provided a more  detailed explanation for each of the elements with 
accompanying figures. Looking at the information  it has provided, I consider it was 
reasonable for it to set an ERC of 5% fixed across  the tie-in period based  on the information 
I have seen.
I consider it would have  been fair for Bank of Ireland to apply the ERC if Mr K had repaid  the 
mortgage during  the tie-in period. I note he didnt do so. But it follows  that it wouldnt be fair 
to say that Bank of Ireland should compensate him for not being able to switch rates sooner 
than he did. 
overpayments
There are two parts to this complaint:
Whether following  an overpayment the monthly payments can remain  the same so that 
the terms is effectively reduced.
That its unfair for Bank of Ireland to impose  the annual restriction  on overpayments.
The mortgage offer says that overpayments are permitted, that during each financial year 
the maximum amount  is 10% of the amount owed at 1 April and that ERCs will apply if 
overpayments exceed that amount.
Bank of Ireland  has given us a copy of the mortgage deed which says that the mortgage 
conditions are Our Residential Mortgage  Conditions 2010 Edition One (England and Wales) 
Bank ort Ireland UK. Mr K signed the deed where  it states that he accepted  all the terms in 
the mortgage conditions. So Im satisfied  that he agreed to the mortgage conditions.  
The mortgage conditions  state that Bank  of Ireland  may change the monthly payment for a 
number of reasons,  including to take account of any payment you have made over and 
above the monthly payment.
Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland was entitled under  the agreement to reduce the monthly  
payment following an overpayment. While the interest rate was fixed for an agreed period, it 
Ref: DRN63248744doesnt follow that the payment couldnt  be changed. It is reasonable for a lender to allow  
changes to payments  during a fixed rate tie-in  period to reflect reductions in balance.
Mr K says that it was unfair for Bank  of Ireland  to only allow him to reduce the monthly 
payment rather than the term. But Im not sure thats  correct  based on the evidence  I have. 
Bank of Ireland  has sent us a recording of a phone call that Mr K had with it following the 
overpayment in 2016. In that call the bank says that it automatically reduces the monthly 
payment following an overpayment, but it can transfer Mr K to another  department  to look 
into reducing the term instead.  I cant see that it said it would apply an ERC if Mr K went  
ahead with this  and it has confirmed to me that no ERC would have been applied if he had 
reduced the term. 
Im satisfied that Mr K would have had the option to reduce  the term of the mortgage 
following an overpayment if he had chosen  to progress it  and I cant  see that Bank of 
Ireland has ever told him he couldnt  do this.
In regard to the annual  limit in regard to overpayments, Ive looked  at what  the mortgage 
offer says in section  11. It refers to financial year. I agree this on its own is vague  wording  
to use  particularly  as it isnt defined anywhere  else in the mortgage documentation  as far 
as I can see. I think its reasonable to interpret this to mean a year  but not one that 
necessarily runs from January to December. I dont think it could be interpreted  to mean that 
it was the anniversary  of the mortgage.
But the offer goes on to say that the total amount repaid cannot  exceed 10% of the amount 
owed at 1 April. I think its difficult to say that reading  section 11 as a whole that the 10% 
limit applies  to either a calendar year or the anniversary of the mortgage. While not as clear  
as it could be, I think the offer cant reasonably be interpreted other than that there is a 10% 
limit to overpayments that applies for a financial year that runs from 1 April.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6324874