K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited  wrongly advised her that the treatment 
of her condition wasnt  covered under  her private medical insurance policy.
background
In March 2017, Ms H was diagnosed with polycythaemia vera (PV). Her treating NHS 
consultant, Dr G, prescribed her hydroxycarbamide.
Ms H experienced side effects to the hydroxycarbamide. She says that in April 2017  she 
contacted BUPA and asked whether she could receive private treatment and alternative 
medication through her policy. She says BUPA told her she wasnt  covered for treatment of 
her condition. She says she was nonetheless  asked  to put her request in an email. She says 
she did this the same day but heard  nothing  in response. 
In June 2017, Ms H told Dr G she wanted  to discontinue her treatment with 
hydroxycarbamide and asked to be prescribed ruxolitinib  instead. Dr G told her ruxolitinib 
wasnt currently used in the NHS to treat her condition. She therefore continued with 
hydroxycarbamide.
In July 2017, Ms H complained to BUPA about  its lack of response  to her enquiry.  
BUPA immediately telephoned Ms H to apologise  for its non-response. It noted she was 
receiving treatment through the NHS and sent her a claim  form for NHS cash  benefit.
In September  2017, BUPA issued its final response  letter on Ms Hs complaint. It explained a 
recording of the April phone call unfortunately wasnt available due to a fault with its system  
and furthermore it had no record  of her email  of that day. It noted she had now been sent 
forms to claim  NHS cash benefit.  It sent her some  flowers as an apology for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused her through  its error.
In December 2017, Ms H was continuing  to experience  problems arising from the use of 
hydroxycarbamide. In a telephone conversation with BUPA  she complained that shed been 
told on numerous occasions that BUPA wouldnt cover the private treatment of her condition.  
BUPAs adviser said shed check this. The adviser  called  back a few days  later to confirm 
that, although not stated explicitly in its final response letter,  BUPA would provide cover for 
the private treatment  of her condition.
Ms H was upset by BUPAs response and complained  to us. She said if BUPA had 
confirmed in April 2017 that it would provide cover  for her condition,  she would have 
switched from the NHS at that point and asked to be prescribed ruxolitinib. She said this 
would have spared her nine months of suffering from the side effects of hydroxycarbamide. 
She also complained  that BUPA had increased the premium for her policy.
In February 2018,  while her complaint  was under investigation,  Ms H made arrangements to 
switch her treatment to the private  sector. Her new treating consultant,  Dr P, changed her 
medication to ruxolitinib. Ms H stopped experiencing many of the symptoms  from which  
shed been suffering while being treated with hydroxycarbamide.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part and recommending  that BUPA 
pay Ms H £250 compensation. My findings  were as follows:
Ref: DRN65862372When Ms H contacted  BUPA in April 2017, she was already receiving chemotherapy for her 
condition through  the NHS.  Ms H says she was advised at this stage that her condition 
wasnt eligible for cover under her policy. She also says she was asked to send an email 
outlining her various conditions so the adviser  could confirm the situation.
Unfortunately, a recording of the relevant telephone  call isnt available. However, Ms H has 
provided a copy of an email she says she sent the adviser on the same day asking for 
confirmation of whether  her condition, along  with other conditions with which  she had been 
diagnosed, would be covered under her policy. Im satisfied this email was sent.
I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Ms H was categorically told in April 2017 that her 
condition wasnt eligible for cover. I think if shed been told this, there would have been no 
point in her being  asked  to email in with details of her conditions. However, Im satisfied that 
she asked BUPA whether she was eligible for cover and I think  the adviser  may have  led her 
to believe her condition  probably wasnt covered. At the very least, the adviser  obviously 
failed to confirm  that her condition was indeed eligible, either in the telephone call or 
afterwards in response to her email. This meant  Ms H was under the impression from 
April 2017 until July 2017 that her condition probably  wasnt eligible for cover under the 
policy. 
In July 2017, Ms H sent another email complaining about the lack of response from BUPA. 
The day after this, the adviser whom she originally  spoke to called her back to apologise. He 
eventually transferred her to an adviser  in the oncology team  which was the team which  
authorised any chemotherapy treatment. I have listened to these telephone calls.  The 
adviser in the oncology  team confirmed  that Ms Hs condition  was eligible for cover. The 
adviser explained that Ms H could either transfer  to the private sector where  cover  could be 
provided for a variety of drugs, or she could choose to continue  receiving treatment through  
the NHS  in which case she would be eligible for cash benefit under the policy.
Unfortunately, the call was cut off for unknown technical reasons  before the discussion about  
Ms Hs preferred option was complete. However,  I think the adviser  had done enough to 
make Ms H aware  that BUPA would provide cover if she wanted to transfer  to the private 
sector.
It appears that following this call, BUPA  made the assumption that Ms H would prefer to 
continue receiving treatment through the NHS because it sent her a claim form for NHS  cash  
benefit. And when  it eventually  sent its final response letter  in September  2017, it apologised 
for its failure  to respond to her enquiry in April 2017 but didnt clarify that Ms H was covered 
for private  treatment of her condition under her policy.
I think that BUPAs communication was very poor. But I cant  ignore that it had clearly told 
Ms H over the telephone in July 2017 that it would  cover her treatment if she wished to 
transfer to the private sector. And if Ms H had really wanted to do this, I would have 
expected her to have  followed  this up with BUPA at the time. 
Instead, Ms H didnt raise  this with BUPA again until December 2017  at which  point it again  
confirmed she could  get cover for private  treatment under her policy.  And while  Ms H shortly 
afterwards took action to transfer to private  treatment,  this was some  six months  after BUPA  
had first made her aware of this possibility.
Ref: DRN65862373So while I accept there was a three month  delay  between April 2017  when  Ms H first made 
her enquiry  about  cover for private treatment of her condition and July 2017 when BUPA 
confirmed she had cover, I cant reasonably conclude that Ms H was unduly  disadvantaged  
by this. This is because  the evidence suggests  she wouldnt have elected to transfer to 
private cover at this time, even if shed  known this was possible.  I acknowledge that during 
this period she asked  Dr G about the possibility of switching her medication to ruxolitinib 
(and I dont  agree with BUPAs argument  that Dr Gs refusal to allow this switch  somehow 
supports its position   Dr G was constrained by NHS guidelines but wouldnt have been so 
constrained if Ms H had been receiving private treatment). But the fact that Ms H was made  
aware of her entitlement  to switch in July 2017  and yet didnt do so until six months later 
undermines her case.
I still think Ms H should be compensated for the very poor communication  she received from 
BUPA. This would have been very frustrating for her but I dont think it would ultimately have 
affected her choice of NHS versus private treatment. I therefore dont think  I can reasonably 
ask BUPA  to compensate her for the distressing side-effects she suffered while  on 
hydroxycarbamide. In the circumstances, I think BUPA should pay her only £250. I recognise 
this is a lot less than the amount recommended  by the investigator, and that BUPA had 
previously agreed to pay her a higher  amount  (though it later retracted  this offer). However, 
the investigator hadnt heard the telephone conversation of July 2017. Having listened to 
that call myself, I am satisfied there  is no basis for me to ask BUPA  to pay a higher amount.
For the avoidance of doubt, this compensation payment doesnt affect any further 
entitlement which Ms H may have to NHS  cash benefit for the treatment she received  before 
transferring to the private sector.
Finally, Ms H has complained about  the annual  increase in the premium for her policy. We 
generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its policies. 
Provided it exercises this discretion fairly and consistently, in accordance with its internal 
guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally  interfere. BUPA has provided  us with 
evidence on how it calculated Ms Hs premium. I cant  share  this with her because  it is 
commercially sensitive  but I have assessed it and am satisfied it has calculated her premium  
accurately and fairly. She hasnt been singled out in any way.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Ms H responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision. Having listened to a 
recording of the July 2017 telephone call, she said while BUPA  said her condition  was 
covered by the policy, its only offer was to provide cash benefit while she continued 
treatment on the NHS. She said it didnt tell her she could  receive  treatment by a private 
haematologist who could change her medication,  which was what she was asking for. She 
said it this had been offered, she would have accepted immediately rather  than suffer the 
side effects of hydroxycarbamide for a further five months. 
BUPA didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that £250 is an appropriate  amount of compensation in this case.
Ref: DRN65862374Ms H thinks  that BUPA failed to make  her options clear in the July 2017 telephone call. It 
was unfortunate  that the call ended before a full discussion had taken place. However, the 
adviser clearly said to Ms H that her condition  was eligible for treatment under the policy. 
She asked  whether Ms H wanted  to transfer to the private sector  or continue  with the NHS. 
She further explained  that if Ms H were  to transfer for private treatment the cover would be 
based on the treatment recommended by her treating consultant  and, in respect  of 
chemotherapy, could  be for a wide variety  of drugs. The adviser didnt specifically say that 
BUPA would provide cover for Ms H to receive ruxolitinib instead of hydroxycarbamide but I 
wouldnt have expected the adviser to say this as she had already made clear it was up to 
the consultant to decide on the appropriate treatment.
I cant explain why Ms H didnt pursue this further with BUPA.  As I acknowledge in my 
provisional decision, it appears  that BUPA subsequently made the assumption Ms H would 
prefer to remain in the care of the NHS but, given that I think shed been made clearly aware 
of her options, it was up to Ms H to tell BUPA  if this wasnt the case and that shed instead 
prefer to receive private treatment.
I cant reasonably conclude that Ms H would have chosen to receive private treatment for 
her condition when  she made her first enquiry with BUPA in April 2017 given her inaction 
when she was made aware of this possibility in July 2017. I sympathise with Ms H for the 
suffering she has gone through and recognise the disappointment she must feel at this 
decision after having her expectations raised  about the level of compensation she might 
receive during  the course of our investigation.  However, given all the circumstances, I think 
£250 is appropriate compensation for the poor communication by BUPA.  
There have been  no further submissions about the price of the policy and so I remain of the 
opinion that this was calculated accurately and fairly as outlined in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require BUPA Insurance Limited  to pay Ms H £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6586237