K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland PLC, trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in early 2001, having  gone  through an application  process in late 
2000, whilst  taking out a new mortgage. She applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in a 
branch. The PPI policy provided  cover for Mrs W for accident, sickness, and unemployment 
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  around  £115 a month towards 
her mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim  and cost around £7 a month. 
I accept that the sale was quite a while ago. And I also accept Mrs W herself provided 
recollections which she believes  to be correct. However, theres a few important 
inaccuracies which cast doubt on some  of the information we know about  this sale. 
At the time,  for example,  Mrs W was employed in healthcare. This is contrary to the 
recollections which were set out on her complaint questionnaire, where it was said she was 
a long-serving  prison officer. Ive been  presented  with a pay-slip from the mortgage  
application confirming  her then occupation  with a health trust. 
I also note she said shed  been in her job for 24 years and enjoyed full sick pay protection for 
over 12 months. I can only assume  the claims management company representing her has 
made an error about this, since Mrs W was only around 29 years  old at the point of sale, so 
clearly being employed for 24 years simply cannot be right.  I should also make the 
observation that we see very few occupations  where  such  generous  sick pay applies. So Ive 
determined, given what I think  her job actually was, that she was probably entitled  to some 
sick pay from her employer. 
The company representing Mrs W also said shed suffered from back pain in 2000  and 
stress in 2007. However, given the other  inaccuracies, Ive needed to weight this 
information against what we do know  I think this is reasonable and fair. Ive thought very 
carefully about whether such a pre-existing medical  condition (from 2000) affects anything,  
and I deal with this issue later on. However, the 2007 illness  cited  by her representatives,  
post-dates the sale by many years  and so isnt relevant  to the outcome Im afraid.
This mortgage ended  in 2003. Mrs Ws representative  has made other  lengthy  and 
substantial representations on her behalf.  I will not restate them  all here,  but I have read and 
considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mrs Ws representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN66713892The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  before the sale of general  insurance  products  like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. There were  a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils  
General Insurance Code for private  customers  the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN66713893This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. The 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider to 
be indicative  of the standards of good  industry  practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ws 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. Ive also taken account of relevant law 
in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to negligence,  misrepresentation and 
contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give advice with 
reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty of utmost  good faith; and 
the law relating to causation  and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN66713894Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional  and I think  theres clear and 
comprehensive evidence  it did. Firstly,  I see that Mrs Ws mortgage application contained a 
section about  PPI. She chose to have this cover, because  she signed directly  underneath a 
part which said, I would  like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance. She 
didnt need to sign this part if she didnt want PPI. I note she then went  on to complete a 
separate application form for the PPI, where she also answered some  general questions 
about her health;  information as to the cost of the PPI cover  was also set out on the form.
So, Im afraid I think theres  clear  information here to show  a policy  was probably discussed 
with an adviser and that it was something Mrs W wanted to have. I think  that Mrs W knew  
the policy was optional and she agreed  to take it out without  undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
This was an advised  sale which means Halifax had to advise Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know for sure what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W. The adviser  had information about some of Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
exercise was completed to try and establish  whether Mrs W had a need for the policy  by 
asking questions about her wider  circumstances such as any health issues  and existing 
means  I cant be sure it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable. I dont know if all the 
limitations and exclusions  were comprehensively pointed out to her.
Ref: DRN66713895While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-She met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ws ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for work-related benefits she 
says she would  have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ws employment  or occupation  which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs W told us 
about back pain but whilst Im sure this would have been an important issue  for her at 
the time,  I dont  see any evidence  which  points  to her being  unable to claim for this 
type of illness,  if needed.  Ive not been made aware by her representative of the 
extent of this likelihood, but back pain could be claimed for in certain circumstances.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
it still provided useful  cover given Mrs Ws circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs W would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs W all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN66713896In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs W? To what extent  did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken  out the policy  in any 
event. Mrs W says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
Ref: DRN66713897wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
The information Mrs W was given about  the cost and/or benefit was made clear, in my view. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions  
potentially wasnt as comprehensive as it could have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mrs W knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if she 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs W be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she would  have been completely caught by any of the significant exclusions. For example,  
Ive considered the information about back  pain in 2000. But Ive been presented with no 
supporting evidence of this condition or that it would have affected Mrs W to such  an extent 
that claiming for it under  the PPI policy was a possibility. I also note Mrs W hadnt  
apparently - recalled her employment details correctly. So whilst I understand and 
sympathise that this was all a long time ago, Im not persuaded  her recollections, however 
genuine, are correct in terms of the dates relevant to the sale. 
Nevertheless, I do accept back pain and mental  health conditions are common  problems and 
the steps required to make  a disability claim for these  conditions were more  onerous than 
Mrs W might  reasonably  have expected. But its unlikely she would have  expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim 
anyway. And while  this limitation might have dissuaded some  consumers  in slightly different 
circumstances to Mrs W from taking out the policy, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out. This was a mortgage secured on her home,  so the 
consequences of her not being able to meet the repayments could have been serious. In 
Ref: DRN66713898short, Mrs W might therefore  have been  able to claim for back  pain anyway, but with 
supporting medical  evidence required.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs W was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs W that any claim she made would  be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but its 
unlikely in my view - 24 months  would  have far outstripped any sick pay she had with her 
then job. In those  circumstances,  I consider it likely  Mrs W would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to her and would 
help her manage the consequences should Mrs W be unable to work in the circumstances  
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
her outgoings at a difficult and uncertain  time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs W would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN66713899proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs W, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met at the point of sale when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs W.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6671389