K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that the vehicle supplied to him through a hire purchase agreement and 
financed by The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd Limited wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  He 
further complains that the finance  agreement  was misrepresented.  He wants  all the 
outstanding payments written off.
background
Mr W tells us that he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as D in October  2016.  
He says that from very early on the vehicle was giving him problems and he had to spend 
money on it. He says neither the dealer or TCFC will help. Mr W feels he was charged too 
much and also states that he was told hed be offered a three year deal. He says hes 
checked the agreement and its for four years.
TCFC said that Mr W had contacted it in September 2018 regarding an oil leak.  Due to the 
mileage and time elapsed  since supply it said it was unable to help.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that Mr W 
had complained to D in September  2018 about an oil leak.  He stated that the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) said that if goods  didnt  conform to contract within  six months of 
supply the consumer would be required to give the business a chance  to make repairs. He 
said the fault was noted  after two years. So he didnt think it was present at the point of 
supply. He stated  that the copy of the agreement hed seen  indicated  it was for three years. 
As Mr W had signed the agreement, he didnt think that TCFC  had done anything  wrong.  
And he wouldnt be asking it to waive the remaining payments.
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws hire purchase  agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. TCFC supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. 
Whilst I dont apply  the law  directly  I do take it into account.  The CRA states that in order  
to conform to contract goods must  be of satisfactory quality when supplied. And for the first 
six months after supply  a consumer would usually  have the right to have  repairs  carried  out if 
the goods didnt conform to contract  within that period.
Mr Ws complaint  relates both to the quality of goods  and an alleged misrepresentation of 
the finance agreement in terms of the cost and duration of it.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ref: DRN69517412This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Other than the report of the oil leak in September 2018 Ive not seen anything that shows  the 
vehicle had previously  exhibited any faults  that would make it not conform  to contract. As 
this issue was first reported  almost  two years after supply its improbable  it was present at 
the point of supply. It wouldnt be the responsibility  of TCFC  to repair  the vehicle after this 
length of time.
Theres nothing to show the finance agreement  was misrepresented. Mr W appears  to have 
entered into it and signed the agreement. This set out the cash price, interest terms and 
monthly payments  required. Im not sure why he thinks  the agreement is for four years. The 
copy Ive seen is clear that after the first monthly  payment theres  a requirement for 35 
months of further payments.
Im sorry  that Mr W appears to have experienced financial problems to the extent that he 
stopped making  payments on the agreement.  Im not sure if the vehicle has been  
repossessed. As theres nothing which satisfies me the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied I find that TCFC is entitled  to expect  that contractual payments wouldve been 
made. I see no reason  to ask it to waive any payments that remain outstanding.
In summary,  theres insufficient information to show the finance  agreement was 
misrepresented. Or that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.  Accordingly, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6951741