K820x#14complaint
Mr D is complaining about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in his capacity as 
executor of the estate of Mrs D. Hes being  represented by a financial adviser who says the 
estate has lost out because of delays  in the initial processing of Mrs Ds investment after it 
asked for unnecessary documentation.  
background
In 2017, Mrs D invested £300,000 in a Prudential bond. At this time, her affairs were 
controlled by Mr D and Mrs M under a power  of attorney and the investment was arranged  
by an independent adviser.
The application was dated 9 October and Prudential says this was received  on 11 October  
along with documents verifying Mr Ds identity. On 12 October, it wrote to the adviser  
requesting further  information, including documents to verify Mrs Ms identity. Prudential  
says the last of this was received on 31 October  and, once it had been checked  and 
approved, the investment was finalised on 3 November.
Sadly, Mrs D has since died and the bond was cashed in February 2018.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision and his adviser  made the following key points:
Prudential didnt  ask for everything it ended up wanting immediately the application 
was made and kept requesting more  information it hadnt mentioned before. For 
example, it didnt ask for a letter from the care home confirming Mrs D lived there 
until 19 October.
Despite requests, Prudential wouldnt backdate the investment to the date of the 
application.
Prudentials approach hasnt been consistent  with how its handled other applications 
the adviser has submitted in the past. Some of those  involved larger  investments, but 
it was able to invest  much more quickly and required less documentation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the response to my provisional decision from Mr Ds representative, my conclusions havent 
changed.
As Ive explained previously, it is ultimately for Prudential to decide on its procedures to 
make sure it complies with its obligations  and the relevant rules  and regulations. I havent 
been provided with full details of other applications to compare how those were handled, 
believe I believe its reasonable to think the specific documentation  needed  will change  from 
case to case depending  on the circumstances. In respect of the requests to backdate the 
investment, Im satisfied  Prudentials original email of 12 October made it clear the bond 
wouldnt be issued until the documentation it was requesting had been received.
Ref: DRN67065082I understand why Mr D may believe some information that wasnt  requested on 12 October  
should have been mentioned up front, for example  the letter from Mrs Ds care home.  But it 
doesnt appear this affected the overall  timescale.  I understand the care home letter was 
received by Prudential on 24 October, the same day as Mrs Ms confirmation of verification 
of identity (CVI) certificate. The CVI certificate was requested on 12 October and the 
investment couldnt  have  proceeded without it, whether or not a letter from the home  had 
been requested  at the same time or later on.
After 24 October, when  Prudential had received all the information it requested on 12 
October, including  Mrs Ms CVI certificate,  Prudential says it tried to verify her identity online. 
And that it was only because these attempts were unsuccessful that it then requested  further 
documents. Its clearly  unfortunate  Prudential couldnt finalise the investment at that point, 
but I dont think  it would have known that any earlier, before it had the information  it had 
previously requested. Once it became  apparent further documentation was needed, Im 
satisfied Prudential requested it straight  away and that the investment  was finalised promptly 
after it was received.
I appreciate my decision is a disappointment for Mr D. But for the reasons Ive explained,  I 
think Prudential was entitled to follow appropriate  procedures  to verify the identity of those 
involved before  the investment was finalised.  I dont think I can reasonably say its 
requirements were excessive or unreasonable in the circumstances and Im satisfied it acted 
promptly once the application and further  information were received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2018.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67065083extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
In arranging and administering  investments,  Prudential has to comply  with a range  of rules and 
regulations. These  are designed, amongst other things, to make sure it deals with the right person  
and prevents money laundering. Prudential says its procedure is to verify  the identity  of all attorneys 
even if they have  authority to act jointly and severally. Its ultimately for Prudential to decide its own 
procedures to comply with various requirements. While  I understand the reasons for the complaint 
being made, I dont think I can reasonably say those procedures are excessive or unreasonable in 
this case.
Its unfortunate if the adviser wasnt fully aware  of Prudentials procedure sooner. But equally,  I dont 
think its reasonable  to expect that Prudential  should somehow have set out full details of its 
procedures in the application  when many of them wouldnt apply to all situations.  By emailing the 
adviser the day after the application was received,  Im satisfied it made sure the adviser knew what 
additional information was needed promptly.
I think  its also relevant  to note Prudentials email of 12 October 2017  asked for more than just 
documentation to verify Mrs Ms identity. So even if it had accepted this for Mr D only as the adviser  
appears to believe it should have, it wouldnt have been able to finalise  the investment as soon as the 
application was received  anyway and there  would  still have  been a delay.
I appreciate my comments will come as a disappointment to Mr D and arent what  he was hoping to 
hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Prudential was entitled to ask for the additional 
information it did and that it acted promptly and reasonably after the application was received.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN6706508