K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Zenith Insurance plc unreasonably refused to pay the whole of his 
claim under his pet policy, wrongly  linking two conditions together.
background
In November 2017, Mr Bs dog landed awkwardly  jumping for a treat and ruptured his right 
cruciate ligament,  which required  surgery. Zenith paid that claim.
In August  2018,  Mr Bs dog became intermittently lame and it was found it had ruptured his 
left cruciate ligament, which  is the claim to which  this complaint relates.  Zenith said the claim 
claims were  related and consequently the maximum Mr B could claim for both legs was 
£5,000 instead of £10,000. Therefore, Zenith  only paid Mr B the remaining £1,1185.56.  of 
this £5,000 pot.
Mr B complained but Zenith wouldnt change its mind. So he brought his complaint to us. 
The adjudicator thought  Zenith hadnt taken proper note of what  the referring vets said about 
both conditions being separate and therefore she thought Zenith should pay Mr Bs entire  
claim for the second  claim  concerning his dogs left leg. 
Zenith disagreed  so Mr Bs complaint has been  passed to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Zeniths policy summary does not highlight any issues  with linked or recurring conditions. 
Neither does its schedule mention it. And I think both ought to have done so and clearly  too.  
In the actual policy itself, it says the following: 
Injury/Injuries: Clinical signs or symptoms of changes in normal  healthy resulting 
from one individual  accident, including directly or indirectly related problems, no 
matter where these are noticed or occur in or on your pet. Recurring and/or chronic 
injuries shall be considered one loss. Such injuries being defined as:
1.Clinical manifestations  resulting  in the same  diagnosis (regardless of the 
number of injury [sic] of areas of the body affected)  to which  your  pet has 
an on-going predisposition or susceptibility related  in any way to the original 
claim; or
2.Injuries which are incurable  and likely to continue for the remainder of your 
pets life.
3.Multiple injuries caused by or resulting from one accident will be treated as 
one loss.
Zenith said the first accident causing  the rupture to right cruciate  ligament somehow 
weakened the left cruciate  ligament making  both instances related. This is because it says 
the scans taken  at the time of the right ligament rupture, show  the left had some  stifle 
effusion and a small amount of instability. 
Ref: DRN62441662But both Mr Bs treating  vet and referral vet said this didnt mean the left cruciate ligament 
rupture was connected to what caused the right cruciate ligament rupture. Therefore, both 
vets disagreed with Zeniths thoughts on the matter.
The treating  vet said the right leg issue presented as an acute traumatic event. However, 
with the left leg, the dog presented with intermittent lameness, so consequently it was a 
separate condition  to the right leg. The referral  vet said the left leg presented with a patellar 
luxation and dislocation. So he thought  it was a different disease condition  to that of the right 
leg. Further,  the vet history shows no issues with the left leg from a clinical perspective, as 
theres no record of any lameness. 
Zenith has presented  no alternative expert evidence to counter both arguments from Mr Bs 
treating vet and his referral vet. Therefore, Im of the view that Zenith hasnt shown me 
properly that the left leg issue was at all related to the issue  with the right leg. In my view,  it 
certainly hasnt shown that the clinical manifestations of the left leg was related  in any way 
to the original claim concerning the dogs  right leg.
So I dont  consider it was reasonable that Zenith  failed to the pay Mr Bs claim for the left leg 
up to the limit of £5,000 per condition.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Zenith  Insurance plc to the following:
Pay the remainder  of Mr Bs claim up to the policy  limit of £5,000  per condition, 
treating this claim as a separate condition.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date it partially  paid Mr Bs claim to the 
date of its full payment  to him.*
*If Zenith Insurance  plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6244166