K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the level of compensation offered  by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(the business). He says its insufficient  in the circumstances.
background
In a response dated 30 September 2018,  the business offered  Mr D the following redress:
£150 for not having hot water for 19 days 
£140 for plumbing costs 
£20 for the cost of calls 
£50 for plasterer costs  
£50 for the hassle  of additional engineers, a plumber and a plasterer. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Mr D and his wife are over 70 years age, so having no central heating  or hot water 
for 19 days would  have caused  them considerable inconvenience. 
He accepts they had a gas fire in one room, but didnt often use that room,  and it was 
unlikely to heat up the whole house.  
They had a kettle but it wasnt ideal  to take a boiling kettle upstairs to wash. 
Having to arrange and wait for numerous  visits  from various engineers, a plumber, 
and a plasterer  led to additional trouble and upset. 
The business should pay Mr D the following compensation:
o£385 for no hot water which works out at £15 a day for the 19 days.
o£140 plumbing costs  
o£20 for the cost of calls 
o£50 for plasterer costs  
o£50 for additional  hassle  of arranging engineer, plumber, and plasterer.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he said:
If there  had been no gas the business would have paid £30 per day for the resulting 
lack of heating  and hot water. Although technically there was gas, it couldnt be used  
for hot water, or the 14 radiators in the house, so they were  still without both. 
The investigator is allowing compensation for lack of hot water  but nothing for the 
lack of heat. 
The single flame gas fire in one room was inadequate for the size of the house and 
the upstairs. 
The £50 compensation for the hassle  caused  was inadequate in the circumstances.  
Our investigator having considered the additional points clarified  the following:
He awarded in total £210 (not £140)  for the cost of the plumber (£140), the 
plasterer (£50) and the phone calls (£20). 
£500 (not £400)  for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused Mr D. 
In total he said the business should  pay £710.
Ref: DRN64783732The business disagreed with the investigators view.  It maintains its offer was fair and 
reasonable. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance,  Im not 
persuaded that the level of compensation offered by the business  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
I appreciate its difficult to live without heating and hot water,  and more so for a couple  over 
70 years  of age and for 19 days.  
In my opinion it makes little difference  that Mr D and his wife had access  to a gas fire in one 
room, because it wouldve  done little to heat up the rest of the house. I note they seldom 
used that room and the bedrooms were  upstairs.  
Im aware that they had the use of a kettle,  but virtually all households do these days, so Im 
not persuaded that would  have reduced  their trouble and upset. Even  if the kettle could be 
taken upstairs for washing purposes, its not without its own dangers  and difficulties.
Not only did Mr D and his wife have to suffer not having hot water  or heating for the 19 days,  
they also had to arrange and wait for various engineers to come round, who ultimately failed  
to resolve the issue. They  also had to arrange for a plasterer and a plumber to resolve 
further problems,  which they had to pay for at the time, which Ive no doubt wouldve added 
to their inconvenience, trouble and upset.  
On balance it seems likely that all of this could have  been avoided if the first engineer  had 
properly tested the system and made  sure it was working properly. And thereafter,  if the 
second engineer had checked the outside stop tap the problem might have been  resolved 
sooner. 
In the circumstances I think £710 compensation  - comprised of £210 for the cost of the 
plumber, plasterer and phone calls, and £500  for trouble and upset  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr D £710  compensation  for the costs  incurred and 
trouble and upset,  less any money  already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Ref: DRN64783733Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6478373