K820x#14complaint
Miss F has several  accounts with Nationwide Building Society and complains that it hasnt 
been clear with her about her account balances. Miss F thinks  some of the balances  may be 
wrong.
background
Miss F visited  a Nationwide branch and asked for details of her accounts. She says that 
during the visit a savings account  was showing  a zero balance  and then a balance of 
£2,000. Miss F said it shouldve been  more than that  because it had been opened with £3 
and had had £1,000  paid in twice.
Nationwide agreed  the correct balance  for the savings account was £2,003.01, and it paid 
£50 compensation  for the earlier confusion. It went through Miss Fs statements with her as 
well but says she wasnt able to identify anything else that might be wrong. Nationwide also 
said itd send account statements to Miss F, so she could check  for any other discrepancies.
Miss F also felt it was unfair for Nationwide to give her a passbook which didnt include the 
full transaction  history.  And she thinks her online account and paper statements dont always 
match, so is seeking  clarification. Nationwide  explained  that the passbook balance  starts 
from the date its issued and it has said itd be happy  to go through  Miss Fs statements with 
her again.
Miss F wasnt  happy with Nationwides response  so brought  her complaint to us.
An investigator here looked through  Miss Fs statements but couldnt find anything  wrong. 
He too sent copies of the statements to Miss F but she still wasnt  happy. Another 
investigator provided Miss F with her account balances from when they were opened, at the 
point she first thought  there was a problem,  as well as an up to date balance  (or the balance  
upon closure).
The second  investigator asked Miss F if she could be more  specific  about  what she felt was 
wrong on her accounts, but shes been  unable  to do so. Miss F still had concerns  about the 
savings account  though,  because wed said the balance had been  £2,002.01, rather than 
£2,003.01. Although we later confirmed that was a mistake on our part and £2,003.01  was 
the correct figure at the time shed visited the branch.
Miss F remains  dissatisfied so she asked  for her case to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss F has concerns about  her account balances, given there was a 
discrepancy on the savings account  to begin  with. But Nationwide apologised for that and 
clarified the correct  balance. I think Nationwides offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances 
because the balance was later confirmed  to be as Miss F had expected.
Miss F says shes still concerned about  this and is finding it all really stressful, but without 
knowing what else she thinks is wrong on her account statements, online or paper, I cant  
Ref: DRN64698012say Nationwide  has treated her unfairly.  And Nationwide  has said itd be happy  to go through 
Miss Fs statements with her again  if needed,  so I dont think  I can expect it to do any more 
at this time.
I do appreciate Miss F is finding this very frustrating, but we dont  provide  an auditing service  
 and I dont know  how she uses her accounts or what transactions  on them she thinks are 
missing or might be wrong. So I cant uphold her complaint about that.
I note what Miss F said about her passbook not showing the full transaction history.  But 
Nationwide explained  that when a passbook is given to a customer itll start with the balance 
on the date of issue. I dont think this is unreasonable, particularly as past transactions  can 
still be given in a different  format.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im unable to uphold Miss Fs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469801