K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Waterside  Credit  Union Limited failed to provide  her father with receipts 
when loan repayments were made; failed to give her a copy of her statement of account 
when asked; and insisted that payments went to interest before reducing the loan balance. 
She is also unhappy information  was provided to Stubbs Gazette. 
Ms A is being assisted  in her complaint by her father,  Mr A. 
background
Ms A had existing borrowing with Waterside of £7,908.32  when she wanted additional 
borrowing of £1,000 in August 2017. This was agreed and repayments  were £100 every  
fortnight for 115 fortnights.  Ms A missed some repayments and as she was unable  to make 
further payments,  Mr A made  five payments  in 2018:
£100 on 31 March  2018
£100 3 July 2018
£100 21 July 2018
£100 25 August  2018
£100 1 September 2018
Mr A then made  a payment of £7,956.75  intended to clear  the loan balance.  But as Ms A 
hadnt been making her repayments every  fortnight, interest remained outstanding of 
£146.73. Ms A has refused to pay this as she doesnt think it fair that the payments her 
father made repaid interest instead  of the capital borrowed. She complained about that and 
because Waterside refused to provide receipts  or a statement when asked for. Waterside 
didnt uphold  her complaint.  It was satisfied payments had been allocated  as per its usual 
process; a statement had been  provided  and receipts were offered  but declined.   
Not happy Ms A asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator concluded Waterside 
hadnt done anything wrong.  He was satisfied the payments had been allocated  as per its 
usual process and any decision to accept the large  lump to repay the credit before the 
interest was discretionary.  He was satisfied Mr A was likely offered receipts and that Ms A 
was provided with a statement.  He also concluded Ms As account wasnt  reported to Stubbs  
Gazette but Waterside  used its debt recovery service. 
Ms A has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  She said the statement  of 
account wasnt provided until a meeting on 26 October but it was originally requested  in 
September 2018. Had it been supplied when asked  for the balance of the loan would have 
been repaid sooner without interest outstanding. She also says her father wasnt offered 
receipts because of Data Protection but feels they should  have been  offered to her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Ms As loan has an APR of 12.72% just over 1% a month  typical  of credit  union lending. 
And interest  is charged  on the outstanding balance of the account, which  can be a cheaper 
way of borrowing. 
Ref: DRN69478852Ms A had missed a number of repayments when Mr A made some  for her and those 
payments werent  made when due (every  fortnight). That meant interest  accrued  on the 
account. So when  Mr A made the payments they went to interest  first. I understand this is 
generally how repayments are allocated on credit  union loans and so I dont find Waterside 
was wrong to allocate payments in the way it did. 
I accept when Mr A paid £7,956.75 that the payment went  to the outstanding balance first, 
but this was agreed on a discretionary basis and so I dont ask it to do anything differently 
now. 
Ms A is unhappy that she wasnt provided with a statement when  asked and that her father 
wasnt given receipts. Both parties  have provided  different versions  of events about who 
asked for what and when.  But as Mr A isnt the account holder,  and Ms A hadnt  given any 
authority for information about the account to be given  to him, then I dont find Waterside 
was wrong to refuse Mr A information. 
As I understand it Ms A signed  up for on-line access to her account. So had she wanted  a 
statement of account  or to ensure  payments had been applied she could have obtained this 
information on-line  (even  if she couldnt  download  it). So even if I accept that Waterside 
should have done more  with regards to providing  account information, Im satisfied Ms A had 
access to this herself. Im therefore satisfied she could have repaid the loan earlier  in any 
event. Because  of that I dont find Waterside  should forgo  the interest still owing on the 
account. And as its a balance outstanding  I dont find was wrong for it to write to her about 
that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947885