K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) charged for damage 
to his leased car which had been repaired.
background
Mr G had a car on a two year contract  hire. Shortly before it was due to be returned  it was 
inspected by a representative appointed by VFS and he identified several scratches, a 
missing spare key and a defective tyre. He suggested this would cost some £500 to fix. Mr G 
says he had the repairs carried out by friends  who were suitably qualified.
The car was taken back by VFS and it then carried out a more  detailed inspection.  This 
showed other faults which hadnt  come to light in the previous inspection, but it only charged 
Mr G for the faults identified in the first one. Mr G disputed these and VFS asked for an 
invoice showing the work had been carried out. He couldnt provide this as it had been done 
by a friend. VFS refused  to reduce the charge.
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommended  it be upheld. She noted that VFS was charging  for a scratch to the front 
door, a scratch on the wing and a cut on a tyre. She said the door scratch was still in 
evidence on the second inspection and Mr G should pay for that. However,  the second 
report didnt identify the scratch on the wing or the cut on the tyre. As such  she didnt think  
he should pay for those.
She noted that Mr G had said he bought  a new tyre and the wing had been repaired 
although he couldnt provide invoices for either  item. Nevertheless given the second  more 
detailed inspection didnt  identify these it seemed reasonable  to assume they had been  dealt  
with satisfactorily.
VFS didnt  agree and said Mr G was required to have any repairs  carried  out by an 
authorised repairer.  It said it didnt  accept testimony  from customer  without supporting  
evidence. It said the second inspection may have overlooked the damage and other areas  
which allegedly had been repaired were not repaired  as claimed  by Mr G. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The intention of VFSs ability to charge for damage at the end of a lease  period  is to 
indemnify it against  any additional cost of repairs or reduction in value of the car. In this case  
there were two disputed  items. It seems logical  to presume that those areas of damage 
would show up when  the car underwent a comprehensive  second inspection carried  out 
indoors with suitable lighting. However,  it seems that the inspection failed to identify the 
faults. This leads me to conclude  that they had been  repaired to a satisfactory standard.  I 
appreciate they may not have been  repaired by an authorised repairer, but if no fault could 
be identified when the car was returned  I am unable to see what  loss VFS is seeking to 
recover from Mr G.
I appreciate the second inspection identified other faults for which VFS is not seeking  to 
charge Mr G, but that is the basis on which it operates and I dont believe it has any bearing 
Ref: DRN66962092on the two disputed faults. Therefore after due consideration  I dont consider Mr G should be 
held liable  for the cost of repairs to the wing or the damaged tyre.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to reduce the charge  to Mr G to £21 to cover the repair to the inner left hand 
door. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
 
 
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6696209