K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ms credit card account when she applied for the card in person at a branch of the 
bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ms signed  application for the credit card. Theres a box to 
mark if the applicant  would like to take advantage of PPI. I think the way the form was 
set out made it clear  that the PPI was optional.  And theres  a cross  in the box, to 
indicate that Miss M wished to take the cover. It looks as if the cross may have been 
printed. But if so, I think its more likely than not that this was done following a 
discussion with Miss M about  whether she wished to take the cover,  and that the box 
was marked because  she said she did.
 Taking everything into account,  I think Halifax made Miss M aware that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it  although I can understand why she may no 
longer remember this, so many years later.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss M, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. Miss Ms told us shed 
have been entitled  to three  months  full pay, followed  by three  months half pay from 
her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But if shed  made a successful  claim on 
the PPI, it would have  helped  with her monthly credit card repayments  for up to 
12 months. Thats significantly  longer than Miss Ms told us shed have been entitled  to 
full sick pay for. 
 The PPI would  also have paid out for up to 10 months per successful claim for 
unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition  to any payments 
Miss M received from her employer. And she wouldnt have had to use her savings to 
make her credit  card repayments. So I think the PPI could have  provided  her with a 
useful benefit, at what would have been  a difficult time.
Ref: DRN64925542 Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained  that Im satisfied that Miss M chose to take out 
the policy, even if shes understandably forgotten that now.  So she appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. Based  on what shes told us about her circumstances when 
she took the policy out, she wasnt affected by any of the main  things it didnt cover (for 
example, unusual working  arrangements  or existing medical conditions). The policy 
was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss M would 
have made a different decision if better  information  had been provided. On balance 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019. 
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6492554