K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Lloyds Bank  PLCs  advice to invest  in a capital structured  
product in 2001. They dont think it was suitable  for them. 
Mr and Mrs G are being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).  
background
In February 2001  Mr and Mrs G met with an adviser from Lloyds. Their objective  at the time 
was to invest a lump sum to build up more capital  for any future needs. Their attitude to risk 
with the money  was assessed as low, and they were  considering a medium term for the 
investment. Based on the needs  they identified and their circumstances, they were advised 
to invest £15,000  in a Guaranteed Stock Market Bond  (GSMB). The investment had the 
following features:
It guaranteed  a return of 100% of the initial  capital after 6 years. 
It would  provide a return on the base value of the initial capital  (this amounted  to 
94% of the initial capital). This was calculated as 70% of any FTSE100 Index growth
In June 2001 another fact find was completed, which showed that their circumstances  hadnt  
changed. By this stage  however, an existing  investment in a capital  guaranteed  structured 
product matured. So the adviser recommended they make  a further investment in the GSMB 
of £35,000. 
In 2018, Mr and Mrs G complained with help from the CMC. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He considered the fact that Lloyds had 
already made and paid compensation to Mr and Mrs G, in recognition of the unsuitable 
advice it had provided. In short, Lloyds didnt  think the product was inherently  unsuitable.  But 
it agreed that Mr and Mrs G were advised  to invest too much  in this type of product.  It 
calculated compensation based  on the £15,000  invested in February 2001. This was 
because in February 2001, they already had an existing investment in this type of product, 
and the additional £15,000 meant  they were over-exposed. And it calculated  compensation 
on 50% of the investment in June  2001 (£17,500) on the basis that some investment in a 
capital structured product  was suitable  at that stage, as the existing  investment  had matured. 
The adjudicator agreed that some investment in the GSMB was suitable, but considered that 
Lloyds offer didnt  fully compensate Mr and Mrs G. 
He thought the evidence  showed that Mr and Mrs G were happy to invest  in a longer  term 
product, and it didnt  seem fair to use a benchmark which  didnt take this into account. So he 
recommended an alternative  method of compensation which  involved using the return of a 
rate from a five year fixed  rate bond at the time. 
Lloyds didnt agree. It said:
Lloyds didnt offer fixed term deposit rates at the time for five or six years.  
There was no indication of what the customer would have done with the funds at the 
point of sale. 
Lloyds had applied  this services guidance  when offering compensation to Mr and 
Mrs G for the unsuitable advice they were given.  
Ref: DRN61990362Mr and Mrs G subsequently  made other investments (not capital protected) in 2002 
and 2010, and these were  not fixed term deposit accounts. 
It therefore felt its offer was fair and reasonable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.  Before issuing  my 
decision I sent both parties my intended proposal for putting  things right. Lloyds maintained 
its reasons for disagreeing with the original  adjudication. The CMC, on behalf  of Mr and Mrs 
G, now said that it considered all of the investment in the GSMB should be put right. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I should say firstly that I agree  with Lloyds and the adjudicators conclusions around the 
suitability of the investment, and the proportion of the overall investment which should be 
used to calculate compensation. 
Ive considered Lloyds arguments very carefully. Our service  has an approach  to cases 
where a consumer is identified as not wanting to take any capital risk and was given 
unsuitable advice.  But this wont be appropriate  in all cases, and whether that particular 
benchmark is appropriate for a specific case will depend on the particular circumstances of 
the complaint  which is being considered. Crucially, it will depend on the extent to which  it is 
possible to determine  what alternative  investments wouldve been made had the consumer 
been given suitable advice. 
But in this case, I dont agree with Lloyds that there was no indication of what  Mr and Mrs G 
would have done with the funds. I think its clear that Mr and Mrs G were looking to invest 
their money in order to get a return. They were low risk investors. And they were clearly  
happy to invest  their money in something which meant that they didnt have access to it for a 
period of time. The fact that they didnt access these funds until maturity is evidence of this. I 
agree with Lloyds  that it isnt possible to know precisely what Mr and Mrs G wouldve done 
had they received suitable advice at the time. But in my view, suitable  advice  for Mr and Mrs 
G wouldve  included looking at options involving tying up their money  in a fixed  rate deposit. 
So the question  is whether its fair to use a benchmark which doesnt take this into account. I 
dont think it is  it means that, on balance, Mr and Mrs G wont have the benefit  of a return  
they probably would have  had if they had been  suitably advised.  I should stress that this 
doesnt mean that in every case this is the right thing to do  but in Mr and Mrs Gs case,  Im 
satisfied that on balance they wouldve invested  their money in a fixed  rate account  had they 
been advised that this was a suitable  option for them, given the guaranteed  rate of return.  
I would also add that I think this is more likely given the hypothetical projections of the 
GSMB provided to them when they invested in February and June 2001. 
For example, the second time they invested,  Lloyds explained that if the FTSE100 Index 
grew by 6% per year they would receive £41,600 after 6 years.  
Thats roughly  an 18% return  over 6 years, or just over 3% per year. Yet an equivalent 5 
year fixed  rate account at the time guaranteed between 4% and 5% returns. 
Ref: DRN61990363The letter specifies that this wasnt a maximum return, but it demonstrates the real risk that 
this product wouldnt beat the guaranteed return of a fixed rate deposit account. In these 
circumstances, had this risk been properly explained to them as well as suitable options 
being discussed, Im satisfied its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs G wouldve been  
happy to place the remainder of their money  in a fixed rate account,  while  at the same  time 
having some  money in the GSMB in the hope of obtaining better returns. In this regard, Ive 
considered what  the CMC  has said but I dont agree.  For the reasons Ive given  in this 
decision, Im satisfied that some investment in the GSMB was suitable for them and I think 
its fair that is taken  into account when working out the compensation.  
fair compensation
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I agree that the adjudicators  method  of putting things right 
for Mr and Mrs G is fair and reasonable. 
So in order to put things right for Mr and Mrs G, I think its fair to use a rate which  is based 
on the available rates for five-year fixed rate bonds  in June 2001 when they invested.  And 
4.96% appears  to be the broad rate of return from around that period based  on 
Moneyfacts, between 2001  and 2006.  
I appreciate Lloyds says it didnt  offer this product at the time  but Im not satisfied it would  
be fair and reasonable to under compensate Mr and Mrs G, when if they had been suitably 
advised its likely the wouldve  been  able to benefit from such  a rate of return had they gone 
somewhere else. Or potentially,  by benefiting from shorter fixed  rate accounts  which  Lloyds 
did offer,  and then rolling them over as they matured. So whilst this particular rate might not 
strictly have  been available to Mr and Mrs G at the time, I think it gives a fair reflection of the 
sort of overall return they wouldve been able to achieve given their particular  circumstances 
had they been given  suitable advice. 
what should  Lloyds do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs G fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Gs investments  with that of the 
benchmarks shown  below and pay the difference between  the fair values and the 
actual values of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. 
The first investment in the GSMB was made  on 5 March 2001. This was for £15,000. Ill call 
this Investment 1. The fair value of this investment should be calculated using the 4.96% 
rate Ive referred  to above. 
This should be calculated between the investment date (5 March 2001), and the end date 
after 5 years (5 March  2006) on an annually compounded  basis. Ill call this fair value  A. 
Lloyds should  then apply the average rate from fixed rate bonds to this fair value  A, from 5 
March 2006 until maturity (which I understand was on 5 April 2007). This will produce  fair 
value B. 
Ref: DRN61990364If theres a difference between fair value  B, and the maturity value of Investment 1, then it 
should add 8% per year simple on that from the end date of Investment  1, to the date of 
settlement. 
The second  investment in the GSMB was made  on 21 June 2001. Although this was for 
£35,000, as Ive explained earlier, I agree that half this amount in the GSMB was suitable.  
So the remedy Ive set out below  should  only be applied to £17,500. Ill call this Investment  
2. 
The fair value  of this investment should  be calculated  using the 4.96% rate Ive referred to 
above on an annually  compounded basis. This should be calculated  between the investment 
date (21 June 2001)  and the end date after five years (21 June 2006). Ill call this fair value 
C. 
Lloyds should  then apply the average rate from fixed rate bonds to this fair value  C, from 21 
June 2006 until maturity (which I understand was on 26 July 2007). This will produce fair 
value D.
If theres a difference between fair value D, and the maturity value of Investment 2, then it 
should add 8% per year simple on that from the end date of Investment  2, to the date of 
settlement. 
For both Investment 1 and Investment  2: to arrive  at the fair value when  using the fixed 
rate bonds  as the benchmark, it should  use the monthly average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds 
with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month 
is that shown  as at the end of the previous month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis.
Lloyds should  deduct the amount  it has already  paid from the total amount of compensation 
payable (fair value B plus 8% per year simple + fair value D plus 8% per year simple).  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6199036