K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy when she took out a credit  card in 1987.
background
In June 2019 I issued my provisional decision in this matter.  In it I explained why I was not 
intending to uphold Ms Rs complaint about  the mis-sale of her credit  card in 1987.  But I also 
said that Lloyds  should re-calculate and pay the amount due for unfair  commission from July 
1987 rather than March 1994,  the date it had used  to calculate what it had to pay back  for 
commission.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider.
Lloyds responded to my provisional  decision.  It said:
Ms Rs credit  card opened in July 1987  but neither party could provide evidence of when the 
PPI was taken out. Lloyds  said it did know that the earliest evidence of PPI was a 
cancellation note in March 2000.
It is Lloyds policy to use its own six year rule - meaning its calculation start date would be 
six years  back  from the earliest  evidence  of PPI being charged.  In this case  it would be the 
cancellation date which gives  an assumed  PPI start date of March 1994.  It told us that it 
believed this was the fairest way of determining a reasonable start date in cases  where the 
customer and the bank cannot  evidence  when the PPI was taken out. It concluded  that it 
believed there  was no further redress  due using the assumed start date of March  1994 and it 
did not agree with the recommendation to take the PPI start date back  to July 1987. It said 
that if Ms R was able to provide further evidence it would investigate  her case further.
Ms R said in summary:
She had no choice as she was pressured  and it was implied that she couldnt have 
the credit  card without  the PPI
She had an injury which was not covered
She still didnt see why she needed more  cover as she was covered by her work 
contract and 
She couldnt cancel  as she understood that this was part of the credit card contract. It 
was not until March 2000 that she found she could. She also told us that she never  
ran up big bills always paying  it off at the end of each month.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
Ref: DRN66663242complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Ms Rs case.
Ive thought about everything both parties have told me.
the date the PPI was sold.
Ive thought about what Lloyds has said about when the PPI started and about its six year 
rule which meant it calculated the start date of the policy  in 1994. It said this was the fairest 
way to determine a reasonable start date. Ive also thought about what  it has said about the 
evidence of the PPI start date as unreliable for redress  purposes and that it had used the 
cancellation note held on its systems  as the earliest evidence of PPI. 
I have also re-considered what Ms R said when she brought her case to this service  which  
was that the PPI was sold around  1987  which suggests to me that the most  likely time she 
took out the PPI was when Ms R took out her credit card.  So I dont agree that using  the 
March 1994 date for calculating the payment for the commission due is fair. 
Lloyds should  recalculate the commission payment  based on reasonable assumptions made  
using a start date of July 1987.
mis-sale of PPI
Ive looked again to see whether Ms R had a fair choice about buying  the PPI. As the sale 
took place such  a long time ago there is very little evidence available  from the time. But 
where the information is incomplete I have looked at the matter  based on whats more likely 
to have happened taking into account what we know about the way Lloyds sold PPI at the 
time.
I think based on what we know  about these types  of sales  it is more  likely she was given a 
choice and Ms R hasnt given me any detail about why she was pressured   pressure is 
subjective, so what one person feels is pressure another may not. There isnt enough 
evidence for me to say that the Lloyds representative pressured her into buying the policy. 
And as I also explained  in my provisional decision Ms R would likely have seen the PPI 
recorded on statements  so she could have questioned it at any time before she did so.
In relation to Ms R telling us about her injury I still dont think  this injury was something  she 
might have thought  she would  need  to make  a claim for. Ms R has said she was passed  fit 
for work and had never  seen any doctor  about it. Even if she would have realised she might 
not be able to make a claim for that particular injury I dont shed have changed her mind 
about buying the policy as I dont think it was something that she thought she would  have 
needed to take time off work for.
I thought carefully  about Ms Rs sick pay but still this PPI would have paid out for longer than 
any full sick pay lasted  - up to 12 months and in addition to any sick pay she got. It didnt 
duplicate her existing  means. I also think if Ms R was off work for any length of time or lost 
her job then it could have been useful  and meant she could use her sick pay for any other  
important expenses. So I dont think it was unsuitable for her. 
If Ms R didnt  want the PPI she could  have called to question it earlier than she eventually  
did so I dont think Lloyds  did anything wrong here.
Ref: DRN66663243Overall, I cant say the PPI was unsuitable  for Ms R for the reasons set out here and in my 
provisional decision and I dont think better  information would  have changed her mind  about 
buying the PPI.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because:
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Ms R about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Ms R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that the offer (apart 
from the date Lloyds assumed the PPI started)  is fair in this case.
what Lloyds needs to do
Lloyds has already made an offer and paid the sum of £1,876.19 to Ms R in respect of the 
commission. But I think it used the wrong start date of March  1994 when it calculated the 
offer. It needs to recalculate the offer as set out below using the start date of 23 July 1987 
when the credit card opened. 
 
Lloyds has to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Ms R any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Ms R the difference  between 
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Ms R 8%* simple interest (15% 
before April 1993) if she paid off her credit  card at some point. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms R can claim back  the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
For the reason  set out above, I have decided that:
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms R any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN66663244Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made an offer to Ms R and paid her some compensation. But I 
think it used the wrong  start date when it calculated  what it owed her.
So Lloyds Bank PLC must recalculate its offer in the way Ive set out in this decision using 
the PPI start date of 23 July 1987.  
My understanding is Lloyds Bank  PLC has already  paid Ms R some compensation. So after 
it has made the new calculation it can deduct  what its already paid Ms R before paying her 
the balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66663245COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  policy 
when she took out a credit  card in 1987.
background
Ms R complained to Lloyds about the mis-sale of the PPI. In its final response Lloyds said it didnt  
think the policy was mis-sold. But Lloyds did offer to pay Ms R some  compensation  in respect of the 
high commission it received  for the sale of the policy.
 
Lloyds cant say exactly  when Ms R took out the policy but Ms Rs account  was opened  in 1987 and 
this is the date Lloyds has used for the date Ms R took out the PPI when  it assessed whether the PPI 
was mis-sold  to her.
This policy covered Ms R for accident, sickness or if she lost her job for up to 12 months per claim.  It 
would have cost no more  than £0.79 per £100  of the outstanding balance on her credit card and it 
would have paid up to 10% of that balance if she made a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld but said that the offer Lloyds  had made  to 
Ms R for any unfair commission it received was fair. Ms R disagreed  with this view and asked that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case. 
date the PPI was sold
In its file to this service, Lloyds has said the date the PPI was signed for is unknown as it no longer 
holds a copy  of the credit card agreement that Ms R signed when she applied for the credit card.  But 
it says that Ms Rs account was opened  on 23 July 1987 and it has used this date throughout the 
investigation. Lloyds also knows that the PPI was cancelled in March  2000.
In calculating Ms Rs commission  payment  due, Lloyds said a payment  of £1,876.19 was due. This 
was paid to Ms R in July 2018.
The final response  letter to Ms R set out how it calculated  the amount due for unfair  commission.  It 
said that it would use the most recent of;
the date Ms R opened her account;
the date Ms R used the account or
the date six years prior its earliest record of a PPI premium Ms R paid.  
And it told her that it would use March 1994  as the date from which this sum was calculated.
I asked Lloyds  to explain  why the date of March 1994 had been used to work out the offer in relation 
to commission when the credit card account opened  in 1987.
Ref: DRN66663246Lloyds replied  saying that the calculation start date was obtained using the banks  six year rule, this 
meant our calculation  start date would  be six years back from the earliest evidence being the 
cancellation date
Thinking about what Lloyds has told me, I note Lloyds used the start date of the credit card in 1987 to 
investigate the mis-sale  complaint. But when  calculating  the commission  payment it had used the 
March 1994 date.
Lloyds also said; our calculation has been completed correctly and our start and end dates have  
been obtained  following the banks process. As a result of this no further redress will be due to Ms R, if 
Ms R has any further statement evidence prior to January 2000 she would like us to include,  we 
would then be happy to recalculate  her offer.
Thinking about what Lloyds has said in reply to our query, I dont think its fair to use the date of 
March 1994 as the start date for its calculation of the amount due to Ms R for unfair  commission. 
Lloyds has told us it has used its six year rule but it hasnt explained the rationale for using this date 
to calculate the commission  payment. And this rule isnt something this service  would  use to work  out 
the correct redress. We will look at each case on its own merits and make our decision based on 
whats most likely to have happened. 
In this case I think the most likely time for Ms R to have bought the PPI was when she took out the 
credit card in July 1987. Ive seen nothing from Lloyds to make  me think it was sold at a later time 
than this.
So Im intending to ask Lloyds to recalculate  the amount due for unfair commission from July 1987 
when Ms R took out her credit card.
was the policy mis-sold?
Having said that the policy was sold when Ms R took out her credit card in 1987,  Ive next looked to 
see whether  I think it was mis-sold to her.
Im not intending to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of this policy. I will explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered about the sale of the PPI is whether Ms R had a fair choice about  
buying the policy.
Ms R says if she wanted the credit card then it came as a package.  And she has told us that she had 
no choice due to the Lloyds representative pressuring  her. I cant know what  was said to Ms R at the 
time but from what we know about these types of sales I think she was most likely  given a choice  to 
buy the PPI  even though its completely  understandable if she cant remember that now after such  a 
long time. And although  the representative may have  told her it would be a good idea to take out the 
cover Ms R hasnt given enough detail for me to conclude that she was led to believe it was more 
likely the PPI was sold as part of a package or that she was told she had no choice because  she had 
to have the cover in order to get the credit card. 
The PPI premiums  wouldve  likely appeared on her monthly  statements during the time it was 
attached to her credit card account.  I think if Ms R hadnt wanted the PPI, shed  have questioned the 
premiums at an earlier stage, but I havent seen any evidence that she did. On balance I think its 
most likely Lloyds made it clear that Ms R didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Lloyds has said it will treat this sale as if the PPI was sold in branch and that it advised Ms R to take it 
out. I think thats fair as it places  more responsibility on Lloyds  for how it sold the policy. This meant it 
had to make  sure it was suitable as well as giving  clear enough information so that she could decide 
for herself  if she wanted the policy.
Looking at Ms Rs circumstances and the policy terms and conditions I think it was right for her.
Ref: DRN66663247I say this because I think Ms R was eligible for the cover. I can see Ms R was working at the time so 
she wouldnt  have been affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions about her employment. 
And although she has told us she had a medical condition  for many years which she might not have 
been able to make a claim for. She has also said she was passed fit and in a telephone call to this 
service she confirmed  that she had never received any treatment for this medical  condition and had 
never seen  a doctor or medical specialist. So I dont think she would have thought it was something 
she might  have needed  cover  for.
Ms R says she had good work benefits. She has told us that her employer  would have had paid her 
between three  and six months  sick pay increasing  over time. And she says this meant she had two 
policies covering  the same things as she wouldnt  have claimed on both. But the PPI wasnt the same 
thing as any sick pay her employer  paid if she couldnt work. This policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay she had and for potentially longer  than her sick pay would have lasted so I 
cant say it was unsuitable  because  of her sick pay.
Ms R also says that her husband could have helped  but although I have no doubt  Ms Rs husband 
would have wanted to help; this type of help cant always be guaranteed  particularly in the longer 
term. Circumstances can change  over time and if Ms R couldnt work it might  have been  difficult to 
continue to pay her credit card bills so I still think the PPI could have  been useful  if things went  wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable or that Ms R had a particular need to 
keep her costs down.
Overall I think  the PPI recommended to Ms R was probably suitable for Ms Rs needs. Even so, 
Lloyds still had to give Ms R enough information about the cover so she could decide for herself 
whether it was a good fit for her needs.  I accept  its possible  that not all the information Lloyds gave 
Ms R was as clear as it could  have been. But for much the same reasons as I have set out above how 
the policy  could have been helpful to her if she was out of work, I dont think better or clearer 
information about the cover  would have put Ms R off buying it.
Which means Im intending  to find Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Im intending to find Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms R about  that. Because Lloyds  
didnt tell Ms R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what Lloyds needs to do
Lloyds has already  made an offer and paid the sum of £1,876.19  to Ms R in respect of the 
commission. But I think  it used the wrong start date of March 1994 when it calculated the offer. It 
needs to recalculate the offer as set out below using the start date of 23 July 1987 when the credit 
card opened. 
 
Lloyds has to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Ms R any extra  interest she paid because  of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Ms R the difference  between  what she 
owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Lloyds  should also pay Ms R 8%* simple interest (15% before  April 1993)  if she 
paid off her credit card at some point.  
Ref: DRN66663248*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms R can claim back  the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to make the following findings:
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank PLC doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Ms R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms R any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made an offer to Ms R and paid her some compensation. But I think it 
used the wrong start date when it calculated  what it owed her.
So Lloyds Bank PLC must recalculate its offer in the way Ive set out in this decision  using the PPI 
start date of 23 July 1987. 
My understanding is Lloyds  Bank  PLC has already paid Ms R some compensation. So after it has 
made the new calculation it can deduct what its already paid Ms R before paying her the balance.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6666324