K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Black Horse  Limited  (Black  Horse)  has failed to credit  to his account  
(in respect  of a hire purchase agreement)  a number  of payments he has made. And as a 
result Black Horse is incorrectly showing him as being in arrears, or overstating the extent of 
those arrears.
background
Mr F entered  into a hire purchase  agreement  with Black Horse  in July 2018 for a car.
Under the terms of this agreement Mr F was/is required to make 24 monthly  payments of 
£1,426.67 and one monthly  payment (in month 25) of £35,789.
Black Horse  says it has received no payments from Mr F. On the other  hand,  Mr F says he 
has made a number of payments, but Black Horse has simply failed to credit these to his 
account.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators.  She concluded that Mr F had 
failed to provide  sufficient  evidence, either  to Black Horse or our service, that he had made 
any payments to his account. And because  of this, she was of the view that Black  Horse had 
acted entirely appropriately  in recording Mr Fs account  status  in the manner that it had.
Mr F didnt  agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says that Black Horse should  have to provide  documentary evidence  it hasnt received  
payment from him. But I disagree. Notwithstanding that its very difficult, if not impossible,  for 
Black Horse  to provide documentary evidence it hasnt received payment, I dont think  its 
unfair, unreasonable, or particularly onerous,  to expect Mr F to provide documentary 
evidence he has made payment.
And in my view Mr F has been given sufficient opportunity to do so to both Black Horse  and 
our service  and he hasnt done so  at least in a manner that we (or Black Horse) have been 
able to access and consider.
So in my view Black Horse has done  nothing  wrong  in how it has recorded the status of 
Mr Fs account,  which as I understand it shows him to be approximately 11 months in 
arrears with no monthly payments to it having  ever been made. Nor do I think  Black Horse  is 
acting unfairly in seeking to recover payments it says are due on the account  or in the 
absence of payment   recovery  of the car.
Ref: DRN65683882my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6568388