K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs S say PPI wasnt discussed with them and they didnt realise they had it. But 
I think its more likely Halifax did discuss it with them  and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this, particularly when it was sold 
over 17 years ago and cancelled in 2003. I say this because  Mr and Mrs S arranged  their 
mortgage through an intermediary and only when theyd  submitted their application  form 
did Halifax contact them to discuss their insurance requirements. I think  its unlikely 
Halifax would have  set up the PPI without  Mr and Mrs Ss agreement. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. Although  Mrs S says she had a medical condition when she took out the PPI, the 
policy would have  provided cover if shed needed  to have time off work  because of this 
condition.
Mr and Mrs S seem  to have had a need  for the cover. They  say they had other ways of 
making the repayments if they couldnt  work,  such as savings and equity  in their property 
(as well as another property owned  by Mrs S and her family). But looking at the 
information they provided when they applied for the mortgage, it doesnt  seem like they 
had a significant level of savings and they appear to have  a reasonable amount of other 
credit. In any event  the PPI would mean they wouldnt have to use any savings they did 
have to repay their mortgage. It would also mean they wouldnt need  to try and access 
the equity in any property, which could be quite  difficult  for them  to do. 
Even though  theyve  said they had another insurance policy that would pay out if they 
were off work because  of sickness  or an accident, the PPI would pay out for up to 
24 months in this situation, which is longer  than this other policy.  So I still think they 
could have found the PPI useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN65510132This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand Halifax  has 
already paid this to Mr and Mrs S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6551013