K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent irresponsibly to him. 
background
Mr S took out two loans with H&T. His borrowing history is as follows:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountMonthly 
repayment
1 19/07/2017 03/10/2017 8 £500.00 £90.51
2 25/10/2017 outstanding 21 £750.00 £79.72
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of loan 2. Mr S agreed 
with our adjudicators  view. H&T didnt provide a substantive response and so the matter has 
been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I can see that Mr S has been  corresponding with our adjudicator in respect of a separate 
complaint about  another business. Just to be clear  that the complaint Im looking at in this 
decision is about H&T only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including the relevant rules,  guidance  and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  Having 
said that, Id also expect H&T to take full account  of the information it obtained as part of the 
application process. 
I think that it is important for me to make  clear that H&T was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay  the loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ref: DRN66849532Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having  done  so, I agree with our 
adjudicator and I think the complaint  should be upheld in respect of loan 2. 
Mr S agreed with what our adjudicator  said about  loan 1. So I havent  looked at further at 
whether H&T irresponsibly agreed  to that loan. But I have had regard to Mr Ss 
circumstances with regard  to loan 1 insofar  as they are relevant to my consideration of loan 
2. 
I can see that when  Mr S applied for loan 1, he said his monthly  income was around  £1,800  
per month and his monthly expenditure was £650.  At that time,  H&T also undertook a credit 
check. That check showed Mr S had four active credit accounts, two of which had been 
opened in the previous two months. He had settled  one account.
However, by the time Mr S applied  for loan 2 around three months  later, the picture  was very 
different.  He reported his income to be roughly the same and his expenditure had 
decreased a little. But the credit check now showed  that Mr S now had 22 credit accounts  
13 of those were active and nine had been  settled in the previous six months.  
So, since  July 2017, Mr S had settled a further  eight credit accounts. The speed  at which 
those accounts  appeared  to have been  opened  and closed suggests that Mr S may have 
taken out a number of payday or high-cost  short-term loans. The number  of active accounts  
had also increased  by nine in that short three-month period. 
Opening such a significant number of accounts in a short  space of time can indicate  that a 
person is struggling  financially.  And I think this would have been cause itself to alert H&T 
that Mr S may have been struggling financially. At that point, H&T should have undertaken 
more checks and in my view, it would  have been  proportionate to undertake a full review  of 
Mr Ss financial circumstances. 
Had that review been undertaken, I think that H&T would have seen that in a four-day period 
alone between  September and October  2017, Mr S had made  short-term  lending 
repayments of over £1,500. He had also taken  out a loan of £11,000  at the beginning of that 
October. Shortly after taking out that loan,  Mr S obtained more payday loans. I can also see 
that Mr S spent very significant sums on online gambling transactions.  It is abundantly clear  
that the repayments for loan 2 were not sustainably affordable. 
Put simply, for loan 2, a proportionate  check should  have amounted to a full review of Mr Ss 
financial circumstances. Had those checks been undertaken, H&T would have realised Mr S 
could not sustainably repay  loan 2. H&T will now need to take action to put things right.  
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do 
H&T shouldnt have  given  Mr S loan 2. 
As I said above, it appears there  is an outstanding balance in respect of this loan. If that is 
the case and H&T sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it should buy it back if it can 
and then follow the steps set out below.  If  it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
Ref: DRN66849533a)H&T must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 2, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been  repayments of the principal 
on this loan. If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then H&T must refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then H&T should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr S. It must not pursue outstanding balances made 
up of principal it has already written-off. 
c)H&T must remove any adverse  information  recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation 
to loan 2.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. 
H&T must  give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If H&T and Mr S do agree a repayment plan, Id remind  H&T of its obligation to treat Mr S 
fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Harvey & Thompson  
Limited must  put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6684953