K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is about  how Barclays Bank UK PLC administered their mortgage  
with it. They  dont think it calculated the interest correctly  as the entire  mortgage  balance 
was offset by the funds they had in their other accounts.
background
Mr and Mrs H raised  a complaint in 2008 about a payment being taken on their mortgage 
account in October  2008. This was because their mortgage was fully offset and so they 
considered no interest was due and no payments should have been collected.  Barclays 
gave them an explanation  of how the interest  was calculated on their mortgage and why a 
payment had been collected.
As Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with Barclays response to the complaint, they referred it 
to this service. We considered it, but didnt find that Barclays had done anything  wrong.
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs H were again unhappy that a payment was taken from their 
bank account.  The explanation they were given was that the offset  credit  was applied  at the 
end of each month (as the account balances on each day have to be known), but the 
mortgage payment  for each month was taken at the beginning of the month. Due to the 
interest rate on the mortgage increasing, the September payment was more than the August 
offset. Therefore,  Mr and Mrs H had to pay the difference. 
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with this and believe  Barclays are administering the mortgage 
differently from how the documentation they were  given  at the outset said it would.  They 
complained to Barclays. Its complaint handler emailed Mr H on 19 November 2018 to 
introduce herself and her role. She said she would call him to discuss the complaint. 
The complaint handler called  Mr H on 21 November 2018. No security questions  were asked 
and the complaint wasnt discussed. This was because Mr H explained that he had 
previously asked not to be contacted on his mobile  phone due to bad reception.  It was 
established he hadnt received the email  of 19 November  2018 and Mr H asked that a letter 
be sent. 
On 23 November 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr H responding to his complaint. It explained  how 
the offset function worked and gave  the specific figures for the issue Mr and Mrs H were 
unhappy about. It was happy  that it had administered the mortgage  correctly. In relation  to 
the documents and other evidence Mr and Mrs H believed showed the mortgage worked 
differently, Barclays was satisfied they were not misleading and it had not provided  
conflicting information.
Mr and Mrs H have said they didnt  receive a response  to their complaint from Barclays.  As 
such, they referred their complaint to us in early 2019. 
Barclays was informed  of the complaint and its detail. It objected to us considering  the 
complaint; it considered it was identical to the complaint we had closed  in 2010. 
Our investigator looked into the issues at hand and agreed with Barclays  the underlying 
processes that had caused the complaint  to be made were  the same  as those involved in the 
earlier complaint. As such, he didnt think we should consider the complaint further. 
Ref: DRN68808472Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They provided an excerpt  from 
their 2017/2018 annual  statement.  They questioned Barclays explanation of how the interest 
and offsetting  worked  on their account as there were incidents  of interest being credited, 
which they believe shows the account doesnt operate  in the way Barclays says it does. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
The relevant  sections if the 2007  mortgage conditions are:
6(1) The Monthly Payment will be calculated on the assumption that there are 12 months  
in any calendar year each  containing an equal number of days.
6(2) An Interest Adjustment  will take into account the amount by which the Interest due on 
the Loan differs from the amount  of Interest we have charged on the Loan  since  the 
last occasion we applied an Interest Adjustment. If this is the first Interest Adjustment 
which we have  applied since the making of the Loan we will calculate interest back  
until the day of the relevant advance.
The calculation of the interest due will be made by us based  on the actual number of 
days in a calendar month rather  than the assumed number of days  in a month upon 
which we have charged interest  under  Condition  6(1). 
27(2) If you operate you Mortgage  on an offset  basis when we calculate  the interest which  
is payable under Condition 4 and Condition 27(1) we will take the outstanding 
amount of your Loan and Mortgage Current Account Reserve  in aggregate less the 
amounts of the credit balances held in the Mortgage Current Account and any other 
Offset Accounts before we calculate the interest  payable.
Condition 4 relates to the interest  charged  on the mortgage loan and 27(1) that charged on 
any linked  mortgage  current account.  
Condition 19(2) allows Barclays to vary the mortgage conditions. 
The 2009  mortgage conditions provided  more detail about how the offset  arrangements 
worked:
9.1 If you have an offset arrangement we will calculate the interest which  is payable  under 
Condition 4 by calculating the Calculating Capital  of your Loan  for interest  purposes  as: (i) 
the then outstanding amount of your Loan and (if applicable) any outstanding debit balance 
on your Mortgage Current  Account Reserve  and any other Offset  Accounts in aggregate; 
less (ii) the amounts  of the credit balances held in the Mortgage Current Account  (if 
applicable) and any other Offset Accounts. This calculation will be done on a daily basis.  
However, your first Monthly Payment must be paid in full as the offsetting will not take effect 
until the second month. 
On 15 November 2019 I issued a provisional  decision. In that document I set out why I 
considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was one we could consider, but that I didnt intend to 
uphold it. Below is an excerpt  of that document.
Our investigator explained that there are some situations where  its not appropriate for us to 
consider a complaint. One of those situations is where  weve looked at that complaint before.  
He considered this to be such  a situation  because whilst the 2009 and the 2018 incidents 
Ref: DRN68808473were completely separate events, it was the same  underlying administrative process that 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  about.  
Mr and Mrs H are complaining about  two separate events several years apart. This clearly 
says its not the same  complaint. At the core of the two complaints may be the same  
administrative process and so, in relation to the merits,  they may be virtually identical.  
However, in order to determine that the underlying  issue is the application  of the same  
administrative issue, I need to explore  the merits of the 2018 complaint. A dismissal is the 
process that involves this service not considering the merits of a complaint. In light of this, I 
consider it is clear that in order to move  this complaint forward,  I must consider its merits. 
As such,  it wouldnt be appropriate  to dismiss the complaint  and I have assessed its merits. 
In doing so I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has explained that the contractual payment  due at the beginning of each month (for 
interest going forward)  is offset by the interest saving from the offset accounts accrued  for 
the previous month. Having read the mortgage terms, I accept this is how the mortgage 
account is meant to be administered. I say this as the first monthly payment due on the 
account has to be paid in full i.e. there  is no offset  during that month. 
On 1 September 2018 the interest rate payable on Mr and Mrs Bs account increased. As 
such, the contractual monthly  payment for that month increased.  However,  the offset interest  
for the previous month was calculated at the lower interest rate applicable during that month,  
so the offset interest wasnt enough to cover the entire amount of the September  contractual  
monthly payment.  In those circumstances, Mr and Mrs B were  required to pay the difference  
between the two amounts. I cant see that Barclays did anything  wrong  in collecting the 
money that was due under the mortgage.
In relation to the interest credits Mr and Mrs H have highlighted, these again show  that the 
mortgage is being administered correctly. As the mortgage  conditions explain, the monthly 
payments are one 12th of the amount of interest  that would be due on the mortgage over a 
year. That means  that less than 31 days of interest is being charged.  However,  the offset 
interest credit is calculated based  on the actual number of days in the previous month. 
So there will be times when the offset saving of 31 days  of interest  is more  than the 
contractual monthly payment.  This will result in a credit to the mortgage account.
I have examined the excerpts of documents Mr and Mrs B have provided and most of the 
documents in their entirety as Barclays provided full copies. Whilst I understand 
Mr and Mrs Bs interpretation of the sections of documents theyve focused on, I dont think  
the documents in their entirety  support that Barclays either misled Mr and Mrs B at the time 
of the sale of their mortgage or failed  to administer the mortgage as it should  have. 
Both parties  confirmed they had received my provisional decision. Barclays accepted  my 
conclusions. Mr and Mrs H said they had nothing further to add for my consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and bearing  in 
mind that neither party had anything further  to add, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  
Ref: DRN68808474my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 19 January 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6880847