K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Connells Limited mis-sold them  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) for a 
mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs T each  took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2011. Mr and Mrs T paid for 
each policy  with a regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest. The two policies 
covered each of them  in case they lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Having done that, I have  not found that these policies were  mis-sold  Ill explain why.
According to the record  of the advice, the adviser  recommended a PPI policy  to cover 
accidents or illnesses,  and a PPI policy to cover  unemployment, as well as other products. 
These were  only recommendations, not requirements,  which Mr and Mrs T were free to take 
or turn down.  I can see they actually turned down  most of the recommended  products, 
including PPI for accidents or illnesses. Its recorded  that they chose unemployment cover,  
though with a different level of benefit  to the one the adviser suggested.
Mr and Mrs Ts key facts  document said that the only insurance they had to take was 
building insurance,  and that they didnt have to buy any insurance from Connells or the 
lender if they didnt  want to. I can see that Mr and Mrs T both signed and submitted 
applications specifically  for PPI, which  set out what kind of cover  they wanted  and confirmed 
they were eligible for it. And they set up direct debits to pay for the PPI. This was all done 
separately to applying for the mortgage itself  the PPI and its cost was not part and parcel 
of the mortgage.
Ive not seen any evidence which shows Mr and Mrs T were told they had to have PPI  it 
seems to have been displayed  as an optional extra. And Ive not seen any wider  problems 
with Connells sales process  from the time. Overall, I think its most  likely that Connells  gave  
Mr and Mrs T a choice  about whether they wanted  PPI, and they chose  to take it at the time.
Ref: DRN62202532Connells recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check  it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr and Mrs T were  both eligible  for cover, and they dont seem  to have been affected  by any 
of the main exclusions or limitations. Mr and Mrs T had only very limited savings, which 
would not have lasted very long if needed  to cover one or both of their salaries,  and they 
dont seem to have had any other significant cover  in case  of losing a job. Its worth  bearing 
in mind that the mortgage was a very large, long-term commitment,  and if Mr and Mrs T fell 
behind on their payments  they couldve lost their home. It looks  like the PPI couldve really  
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Connells gave  Mr and Mrs T about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs T chose to take out PPI, which implies 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs T werent affected by any 
of the main things the PPI didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. It looks like the policies  wouldve been affordable, and they were  
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs T could cancel them  at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better  information  was likely to have  put them off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6220253