K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited delayed  handling  his claim under his 
employers group critical illness policy and treated him unfairly.
background
Mr Z became a member  of his employers group critical illness  policy in 2013.  Unfortunately, 
Mr Z was diagnosed with Non-Specific  Interstitial Pneumonia in November 2017, and 
diagnosed with a Pulmonary Embolism in January  2018. 
Mr Z made a claim on his policy on 29 June 2018  and his employer was taken over by 
another company, which didnt offer a group critical illness  policy, on 1 August 2018. 
Aviva initially  rejected Mr Zs claim in October  2018.  Mr Z complained to Aviva about  its 
decision, but it didnt uphold his complaint.  Aviva  said it wasnt  clear Mr Z met the policys  
definition of respiratory failure whilst  he was still a member of his employers scheme.  Mr Z 
approached his local MP for help, and in January 2019, Aviva paid Mr Zs sum assured of 
£100,000 plus interest at 8% simple from 1 August 2018 until 14 January 2019, when the 
claim was paid. Aviva said it still didnt have clinical evidence to prove the policy  definition  
was met before  31 July 3028, when  Mr Zs policy ended. But Aviva changed its decision 
because Mr Zs doctors provided new medical evidence, which said they would have 
prescribed oxygen treatment prior to his policy ending in July 2018.
Mr Z was unhappy with Avivas actions,  so referred  his complaint to our service  to review. 
He complained to Aviva  about the way it handled his claim and asked for £50,000 
compensation. Mr Z said:
Aviva  should have added additional  interest,  as he raised his claim on 29 June 2018. 
It wasnt his fault his employers policy ended.
He had no control over when  the NHS would treat him, and it caused delays, so he 
asked Aviva to extend his cover until after the tests and treatment  were  done, but it 
refused.
He was forced to take out a critical illness policy with Aviva without declaring  his 
illness, but realised  it would still treat him unfairly.
Aviva  was unprofessional and disregarded  his unique situation.  He added there were 
long delays in settling his claim, and its actions caused him severe distress and 
anxiety.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Zs complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
we couldnt look at the actions of Mr Zs employer or the FCA as part of this complaint. 
Turning to Aviva, the investigator didnt  think it was obliged to pay Mr Z anything  further.  The 
investigator noted the lung function  tests  in November 2017 and April 2018  didnt  show  Mr Z 
met both requirements of his policys definition of respiratory failure. The policy definition of 
respiratory failure requires permanent impairment  of lung function tests, which Mr Z may 
have met. But there wasnt evidence  from that time that Mr Z required oxygen  treatment  on a 
permanent basis. So our investigator didnt think Avivas decision to decline Mr Zs claim 
prior to October 2018 was unreasonable. 
After this date, Mr Z provided  further information  to Aviva which  said Mr Z would have 
needed oxygen treatment in August 2018.  This was after Mr Zs policy ended,  so our 
investigator didnt  think  Aviva was obliged to pay his claim at this point. 
Ref: DRN60662492In December 2018, Mr Z provided a further  letter from his doctor, which  said:
Mr Zs lung function taken on the 6th August 2018  showed an FVC of 49% predicted  
and an FEV1 of 47% predicted. This would not have  been higher  had it been  done a 
week earlier  prior to the end of the policy.
Aviva accepted Mr Zs claim within four weeks of receiving this letter,  which our investigator 
thought was a reasonable timescale. Aviva paid interest on the sum assured from 
31 July 2018  and our investigator thought this was fair, as she didnt think  there  was any 
evidence to show Mr Z met both requirements of the policy definition prior to this date. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Aviva handled Mr Zs claim unreasonably and didnt think Aviva 
needed to pay him any additional compensation.
Mr Z disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying it ignored  the hardship hed been  
through. Mr Z reiterated  he felt Aviva treated him unfairly, assessed  his claim incorrectly,  
ignored his unique personal  circumstances  and should have contacted his doctors sooner. 
Mr Z said his test results in November 2017  and April 2018 were affected by the steroid  
treatment he was receiving at the time.  He also said Avivas communication was poor. As no 
agreement could be reached,  this complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I would like to say Im sorry to read of Mr Zs health  difficulties,  and I acknowledge his 
complaint has been made in difficult circumstances. 
I note Mr Z has also complained about his employer and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(the FCA). My decision is limited only to the actions of Aviva   we can only consider the 
actions of one firm in an individual complaint. And I dont have the power to consider  the 
actions of either the FCA, Mr Zs ex-employer or his new one. I would like to add that Mr Z 
has explained his complaint in great  detail.  But as we are an informal and impartial service, I 
will focus only on the evidence I think is relevant  to the outcome of this complaint and I wont  
address every complaint point Mr Z has made  I hope Mr Z understands why Ive taken this 
approach.
The question for me here is whether Aviva should  have  paid Mr Zs claim sooner  if I think  it 
should have done, I need to consider how to put things  right.
Mr Zs policy says it will pay a lump sum benefit once he has been diagnosed with a critical 
illness. Mr Zs policy considers respiratory  failure to be a covered critical illness and defines 
respiratory failure as:
Advanced stage emphysema or other  chronic lung disease, resulting in:
The need for regular oxygen treatment on a permanent basis; and
The permanent impairment  of lung function tests where  Forced Vital Capacity 
(FVC) and Forced Expiratory  Volume at 1 second  (FEV1) are less than 50% 
of normal
Ref: DRN60662493So to make a successful claim, Mr Z needed to show to Aviva that he has both chronic lung 
disease resulting  in the need  for regular oxygen treatment on a permanent basis  and the 
permanent impairment  of lung function  tests. 
Mr Z first made a claim in June 2018, which Aviva  initially declined  as there was no evidence 
to suggest he needed permanent oxygen  treatment at the time. It appears Aviva explained 
its decision to Mr Zs employer, but didnt pass on its reasons to Mr Z. I can understand why 
this was upsetting for Mr Z, but I dont think Avivas decision was unreasonable   Ive not 
seen that Aviva was provided with evidence which showed Mr Z met both the policys 
requirements of respiratory  failure.
Mr Z asked  Aviva  to reconsider its decision.  And in October 2018, Aviva  told Mr Z it had 
written to his doctors but the evidence did not show he needed oxygen treatment before his 
policy expired. Whilst one of Mr Zs doctors said his lung function was not likely to improve  
on 31 August 2018, the doctor  did not say Mr Z permanently required oxygen  treatment.  I 
dont think Avivas decision to decline Mr Zs claim on this basis was unreasonable. I know  
Mr Z says it wasnt his fault his policy ended, but Aviva wasnt  obliged to consider any claim 
made after the policy ended  it only needed  to consider whether Mr Z met the policy 
definition whilst the policy was still in force. 
After Mr Z complained to Aviva in October 2018,  Aviva received evidence from his doctor  
that Mr Z would have needed  oxygen treatment in August 2018   after the policy ended.  
Aviva explained  this in its letter of 8 November 2018  and I dont think  its decision was 
unreasonable. I know Mr Z says Aviva  could have written to his doctors sooner  but they 
had already received extensive  evidence from the medical professionals treating Mr Z as 
part of his claim in June 2018. Aviva  also asked for a further report  from Mr Zs doctor  
around September 2018. Aviva didnt  think any of the evidence  provided by Mr Zs doctors  
showed the full policy definition had been  met  and given I think  Avivas  decision was a 
reasonable one, I dont  think  it was obliged to ask for further medical  evidence  at this time.
On 30 October 2018, Mr Zs doctor  said if hed had tests  prior to 23 July 2018, the tests 
would have shown  Mr Z required oxygen  treatment. From my review of the evidence,  this is 
the first time Mr Zs doctors said he would have  needed this treatment before the policy  
ended at the end of July 2018. Ive not seen any other letter  or test result which shows  Mr Z 
would have needed oxygen treatment  before  this point. And on 14 November 2018, Mr Zs 
physiotherapist said in my professional opinion, I feel that if he had the follow-up oxygen 
assessment in July, offloading the cylinder, the outcome of oxygen provision would have 
been the same. Aviva  considered this new evidence  and decided  Mr Z likely  met the policy 
definition before it ended.
As Ive said above,  I dont  think Avivas decision to decline Mr Zs claim before it received the 
letters dated  30 October and 14 November 2018  was unreasonable,  as Ive not seen any 
earlier letter  or test result  which shows Mr Z would have needed oxygen treatment. And 
once Aviva received  the new medical  evidence,  it assessed it and agreed to pay the claim  
and I think the time it took to do so was reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont agree 
that Aviva  delayed Mr Zs claim unreasonably. Whilst I understand Mr Z was distressed by 
Avivas communication  and the time it took to assess his claim, it remains  that I dont think  
Aviva handled  his claim unreasonably  for the reasons explained  above.
Ive thought about whether Aviva  should have added  additional interest before 31 July 2018. 
As Ive said above,  the policy provides a lump sum from the time Mr Z met the policys 
definition of respiratory failure  not the date he originally made a claim.  Mr Zs doctor said if 
Ref: DRN60662494he had tests prior to 23 July 2018,  he would still have needed oxygen treatment and so he 
met the policy definition  around this time. But Mr Zs physiotherapist simply said Mr Z would 
have needed treatment in July.  I note that on 18 July 2018, Mr Zs physiotherapist said he 
therefore did not meet the Department of Health criteria  of 10% improvement in his distance  
walked for oxygen  provision and so it was therefore not provided for him. The evidence is, I 
think, slightly contradictory in terms of when  precisely Mr Z would have required permanent  
oxygen treatment.  Ive not seen a conclusive date on which  Mr Z met both requirements of 
the policys definition,  so I dont think Aviva was unreasonable to say Mr Z would likely have 
met the definition by the end of July 2018  and pay interest from this date. 
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr Z, but I dont  think  Aviva has treated him unfairly  and 
so Ive not asked  it to pay him any other compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr Z to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6066249