K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss M used  to have on a buy-to-let (BTL) property. 
Shes unhappy that her lender, Amber Homeloans Limited, stopped her from selling the 
property and instead sent it to auction  where it sold for substantially less.
background
Ive read everything  from both parties, but have summarised events in rather less detail than 
has been presented,  and using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some  
instances, have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Miss M was in arrears  on her mortgage; she was also in very poor health  (details  of which  I 
dont reproduce here to preserve  her privacy). She was trying to sell the BTL property, and 
says she had a buyer  in place when Amber appointed Law of Property Act (LPA)  Receivers  
to take over its management. The Receivers  put the property up for auction, and it did sell 
but for substantially less than Miss M says her prospective buyer had agreed to pay. Amber 
rejected the complaint, saying the buyer had already pulled out of their own volition, and had 
been informed  they could  bid in the auction  if they still wished to buy it.
When the case came to us, our investigator  wasnt persuaded Amber had done anything  
wrong or treated Miss M unfairly.  Miss M has asked for her compliant to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point,  a lender has the right to take recovery action when a mortgage is in 
arrears. Wed expect a lender to consider offering help to consumers going through  a 
temporary problem, especially in situations  where it can be seen their situation  is likely to 
improve. The difficulty as I see it here is that Miss Ms problems  werent short-term. 
Here, the contact notes  show  that Amber had shown  a degree of latitude and given Miss M 
what Id consider a reasonable  amount of time (approximately ten months) to try and sell her 
BTL property on the open market. It only appointed  LPA Receivers  after the latest  of several  
attempts to sell had fallen  through.  Ive no doubt that was unwelcome to Miss M, especially 
given her health situation, but in the wider context, I couldnt fairly conclude  that it was unfair.  
In reaching that conclusion, Ive kept in mind that this was a BTL property, and Miss M was 
not at risk, at least directly, of losing her home.
Miss M is understandably  unhappy that the eventual sale price  at auction was less than 
shed hoped to sell for. But ultimately any property  is only worth what  someone is willing to 
pay for it, and an auction is a rather good  mechanism for finding that out. Its also apparent  
Ref: DRN68587002that Miss Ms would-be buyer  was told about  the impending auction, so would have had an 
opportunity to make their own bid if theyd wished to.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Amber Homeloans Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858700