K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that he was advised  to switch  his personal pension into a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  so that he could invest in a green oil investment scheme.  The  
advice was given  by an appointed representative of Intrinsic Wealth  Limited, now Quilter  
Wealth Ltd.  Mr  M thinks that advice was unsuitable as it did not take into account the 
proposed investment which  involved  too much risk to be suitable for his pension.   
background
Quilters position was that it was not responsible for the advice as it had not authorised the 
appointed representative to give the disputed advice.  It thought  the ombudsman  service 
could not consider the complaint against it.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision in this complaint.  I explained why Intrinsic (now  Quilter) is 
responsible for the advice and why the ombudsman service can consider the complaint.
One of our investigators  then considered the merits of the complaint.  He explained why he 
thought the complaint should  be upheld and how he thought things should be put right.   In 
summary he said:
Mr M consulted the appointed representative  after he had been  introduced  to the 
idea of investing in the green  oil scheme.   
The appointed  representative advised on the pension switching and not on the 
suitability of the investment itself.  He sent a recommendation letter.   It summarised 
Mr Ms circumstances.   It said Mr Ms attitude  to risk was Adventurous  and that his 
objective was long-term capital appreciation. 
The recommendation report went on to recommend switching  Mr Ms pension to a 
new SIPP which was the only SIPP  accepting  investments into that scheme.
The recommendation report did also say that the new SIPP was more  expensive and 
that the investment would involve more  risk than a diversified portfolio of 
investments.
In order to give suitable advice on the switch of funds to the new SIPP the appointed 
representative should have considered whether the investment met 
Mr Ms attitude to risk, and whether  he understood the risks and could afford  to take 
the risks involved.
The green  oil investment was high risk.  The proposal was to transfer Mr Ms entire  
personal pension  fund into the investment.  The fund was worth about £32,000 which 
is relatively low for a SIPP pension fund and Mr M was a relatively inexperienced 
investor.
Even if Adventurous  was an accurate assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk his 
financial position was not so strong that he could afford  to take such a large risk with 
his personal pension.  
The appointed  representative should have  advised Mr M against  the investment.  If it 
had done so it is more likely that he would  have accepted that advice rather than 
insist on investing.  He would have acted  on clear advice from Quilters regulated 
adviser despite what he may have been  told about the investment by the unregulated 
business that introduced the investment to him.
Quilter should put things right by:
oComparing the performance of Mr Ms SIPP with what  it would now be worth  
if he had not switched away from the personal  pension.  (Or with a Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  if that is not possible.)
Ref: DRN67673092oIf this comparison shows Mr M has suffered a loss, compensation should be 
paid to Mr Ms pension or to him direct  if that is not possible.  
oAnd pay Mr M £500 for the significant trouble and upset he will have suffered 
as a result of the loss of about his personal pension fund.
Mr M, who is represented by lawyers, agreed  with the investigator.  Quilter  did not but it says 
it has no further points  to add.
my findings
On a preliminary point,  it remains my view that the ombudsman service can consider this 
complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the appointed representative  tried to limit the advice given  in this case. 
However the adviser should have considered the suitability  of the overall  transaction.  The  
adviser should have considered the proposed  green oil investment in order  to be able to give 
suitable advice  on the setting up of a new SIPP and the switch  of some of the existing 
pension funds to it.
According to the details  recorded by the adviser  in his recommendation report  Mr M was the 
director of his own business and was earning  an above average  income  but with no pension 
provided with his work.  He had a personal pension with a transfer value of around £33,000 
invested in the with profits funds.   No details of any other pension provision were  recorded.  
No other  savings or investments  are detailed but the total value of Mr Ms assets including 
his home  (which was not separately valued) was recorded.  It was also recorded  that Mr Ms 
home was subject to a mortgage of around  £125,000. 
The adviser noted that Mr M had confirmed that he had an adequate emergency  fund and 
disposable income  though neither figure  was recorded.
It was noted that Mr Ms attitude to risk was Adventurous.  It was recorded that this meant:
Investment will principally be in UK and overseas equities with a degree of volatility  
in order to achieve long-term capital appreciation.
There is no indication of how Mr Ms attitude to risk was assessed.  Or what  risk levels  any 
of his other savings and investments were,  apart  from his personal pension.
It is therefore difficult to know on what basis Mr M had an adventurous attitude to risk.
The following  was noted in the recommendation report:
The charges on the With Profit fund are not transparent as an allowance  is made 
when the fund is valued.  The asset mix of the fund is determined by [the product 
provider] and you have  no input into this even if you wanted more  risk with your 
investment.  With your Attitude to Risk of Adventurous this fund no longer matches  
your risk profile.
Ref: DRN67673093The With Profit fund is currently  invested  in the following areas:
25% UK Equities
12.4%  Non UK Equities
39.6%  Fixed interest
6.5% cash and Other  investments
4.8% Alternative Assets
11.7%  Property
The total bonuses  that have been  added in the recent years are:
2010 - 6.75%
2009 - 6.75%
2008  -  3.5%
2007  -  3.25%
Historically, the [product  provider] With Profit fund has performed very well, but in 
recent years the returns have decreased.   In 1994  when you started  this pension and 
for the next three years  the total annual bonuses paid was 14% per annum.  Over  
time the asset  mix of this fund has been adjusted and they have taken a more 
cautious approach  which  affects the future potential of the fund.
You are now looking at your options  with this fund with a view to self  investment in 
funds of your choice.
This tends  to show that Mr Ms motivation for moving his investment  was disappointment 
with recent  performance  of his with-profits fund investment rather  than a particular change  in 
his appetite for risk.  That said it is reasonable to expect to have to take more risk in order  to 
increase the level of potential returns.   
In the circumstances, a financial  adviser ought  to have  discussed with Mr M that the 
investment world had changed between 1994 and 2010.  It should be kept in mind that the 
advice was in 2010 which was soon  after the financial crisis in 2008  and investment matters  
were then more uncertain and volatile than in most other periods. So disappointment with 
returns compared to 1994 might  be understandable but might not be a fair comparison and 
should have been put in context by the adviser.  Allowing for this might have meant that a 
change from the with-profit  fund was no longer wanted.  
Or at most the way the adviser has explained the adventurous attitude to risk might  suggest 
a move up to a managed fund rather than a single asset based investment.  A managed 
fund is more in keeping with the description  used in the recommendation report:
Investment will principally be in UK and overseas equities with a degree of volatility  
in order to achieve long-term capital appreciation.
The investment in the green oil scheme  was a high risk speculative  investment.  It was an 
illiquid investment  that had an unregulated structure.  It involved investing in only one 
commodity which was located  in a developing economy  overseas.   Investing all the pension 
fund in the green oil scheme involved considerably more risk than investing in UK and 
overseas equities  with a degree  of volatility.
In the circumstances, Mr M should  have been advised against investing  his pension in the 
green oil scheme.  And  in my view he would have accepted and acted on such  clearly 
explained advice  from a regulated financial adviser.   
Ref: DRN67673094It is therefore my view that Mr M was given unsuitable advice by Quilters appointed 
representative.  And since the investment  in the green oil scheme is now effectively 
worthless, the unsuitable advice has harmed Mr M.
It is my view that with suitable  advice  it is more likely than not that Mr M would  have left his 
personal pension  with the existing provider.  He would not have  transferred  it to a SIPP in 
order to self manage the fund.  As  the investigator said, Mr Ms personal pension  fund was 
smaller than is usual for a SIPP.  
Mr M may have stayed in the with-profits fund.  Leaving things as they were  and keeping a 
watch on things seems  quite likely  in the circumstances.   Or Mr M might possibly have 
transferred to a managed fund with the same  provider  straightaway.  Its difficult to know.   
On balance I think comparing  Mr Ms fund to the position he would  have been  in if had made 
no changes is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And if that is not possible a 
comparison to the to the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return Index  seems  a fair 
and reasonable proxy  for the kind of investment and return  Mr M is likely to have had but for 
the unsuitable advice he received from Quilters appointed representative.   
I also agree  that the loss of Mr Ms pension fund will have caused him considerable trouble 
and upset and that he should be compensated for this also.  I agree with the £500 proposed 
by the investigator.
how things  should be put right
Quilter should, as far as possible, put Mr M into the position he would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice  to transfer his occupational  pensions to a SIPP to invest in the green oil 
investment.  Quilter should  do so as follows:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mr Ms transferred pension as at the date of this 
decision had it not been transferred to the SIPP.  
Quilter should ask the pension provider to calculate  the notional  transfer value  it would have 
applied as at the date of this decision had Mr M not transferred his pension but instead 
remained invested with it.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been  achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ms SIPP at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ms SIPP so that the transfer values are increased  by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ms SIPP,  Quilter  should pay the compensation 
as a cash sum to Mr M. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided  
Ref: DRN67673095a taxable income.  So the total amount should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr M is a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr M would have  been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mr M to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Intrinsic given  suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr M 
continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Quilter should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr M back in the position he would have been in. 
So, to provide certainty to both parties,  I think its fair that Quilter pays  Mr M an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees), 
or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  This should provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Quilter may ask Mr M to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the investment  in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party  as a result 
of the investment. That undertaking  should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount they may receive. Quilter will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. 
If it asks Mr M to provide  an undertaking, payment  of the compensation awarded by my 
decision may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Quilter  fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr M should  then have the option of trying  to cancel the 
investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed.
Mr M should also assign  to Quilter his right to make  any claim against the SIPP  provider to 
Quilter if it wishes.
5. Pay Mr M £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M has been caused significant upset by the events  this complaint relates to, and the loss 
of, in effect, all of his personal pension fund. I think that a payment  of £500 is fair to 
compensate for that upset.
Ref: DRN67673096my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require  Quilter Wealth Ltd to pay fair compensation to him as 
set out above.   The  compensation should be paid within 28 days of Quilter  Wealth  Ltd being 
notified of Mr Ms acceptance of my decision.   If it is not, interest should be paid on the 
compensation due at the rate of 8% simple interest from the date of this decision until the 
date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6767309