K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains National  Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his account  and held on to 
funds it shouldnt have.  He also says NatWest shouldnt have registered a marker against 
him with the Credit  Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAs).  He wants NatWest  to 
reinstate his account, allow  him access to the funds it removed from his account, and 
remove the marker. He thinks  NatWest  should compensate him for the personal and 
financial impact its actions  have  had on him.
Background
Mr W held a current account  with NatWest which he opened in June 2018. He says he 
received wages into the account from an employer, as well as consultancy fees.
In December 2019, NatWest removed two payments from Mr Ws account,  for £214 and 
£493.98. The remitting bank had contacted them  to say the payments were  fraudulent.  They 
questioned Mr W about the payments. He said they represented commission payments paid 
to him by his employer.  He also provided  evidence  he said supported  this.
In January 2019, NatWest registered  a marker against Mr W on the national fraud database 
operated by CIFAs. It also decided to close his account and sent him a letter  on                  
15 January 2019,  giving him 14 days to make  other  banking arrangements  and preventing 
him from using his account  in the meantime.  
Mr W discovered the marker through a subject access  request he made directly to CIFAs. 
He contacted NatWest  and asked them to remove the marker  in addition to reinstating his 
account. He told them he is an upstanding  person, with many  years trouble free experience  
working in a credit related industry.  He also revealed  the marker  was having a severe  impact  
on his life.
NatWest refused to remove  the marker, return  the payments it removed,  or reopen Mr Ws 
account. It said it had acted in accordance with the terms  of the account, which  Mr W agreed 
to when it was opened.  And it said it had correctly registered the CIFAs marker and acted 
appropriately when  removing the payments and returning them  to the remitters bank. 
Unhappy with this response Mr W brought his complaint to our service  to consider.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ws complaint and decided not to uphold  it. In 
summary they found:
-NatWest had correctly  applied the terms of Mr Ws account  to close  it.
-NatWest had met the standard  required by CIFAs to register  a marker on the national 
fraud database. And, although Mr W wanted  to know  more  about the reasons behind 
this, NatWest were not obliged  to reveal  or discuss them. And neither would it be 
appropriate to discuss them  in more detail as a result.
Ref: DRN63199412-NatWest had acted  appropriately in relation to the payments  it had removed from Mr 
Ws account.
Mr W is very unhappy with this outcome and has asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
Mr W submits that the CIFAs marker has impacted  on the viability  of the businesses he runs.  
He says his credit license  has been revoked; hes been unable to open an account 
elsewhere; hes lost out on a property he was purchasing; and hes had a county court  
judgement issued against him. In addition  to causing  financial difficulties, he says the 
consequential impact  of NatWests actions has resulted in the well-being of his family and 
his relationship being damaged, and its considerably worsened  his own mental health.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint  and Ill explain why.
There are three key considerations I needed  to decide in order to reach  an outcome I think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr Ws complaint. The first is whether 
NatWest were entitled to register a CIFAs marker  on the national fraud database. The 
second is whether  they were able to remove the payments from his account.  And the third is 
whether NatWest could  close his account  in the manner  it did. Ill address each point in turn.
The CIFAs marker
Our investigator found that NatWest were entitled  to register a marker on the national fraud 
database operated by CIFAs.  They  thought the threshold to register  the marker  had been 
met in line with CIFAs published  guidelines.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr W has said about the effect  the marker has had on his 
wellbeing, relationships and the viability of his businesses. And Ive no reason to doubt  what 
hes said is true in this respect - a marker  can impact on the commercial  decisions made by 
other businesses and can have resulting financial and potentially  personal consequences.
But what  I need to consider in order to determine  whether  a CIFAs marker has been  
correctly registered  is not the magnitude of the impact its had on Mr W. Instead, I need to 
decide if NatWest  met the standard required of it to register a marker in accordance with 
CIFAS published guidelines. I appreciate Mr W will be very disappointed by what I have to 
say but considering the information  Ive available, Im satisfied NatWest  met that standard 
and acted in accordance with the guidelines.  So, I wont be directing it to remove  the marker.
Mr W is keen  to understand more about the basis and detail behind  NatWests decision to 
register the marker, and this is understandable considering the impact he says it has had. 
But NatWest  arent  obligated  to reveal  its reasons, and so I will not be requiring it to do so.
Access to funds
NatWest has a wide variety of legal and regulatory  obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to its customers. These obligations are ongoing and do not only apply when  an 
account is opened. To comply with those obligations  NatWest might need  to act in relation to 
Ref: DRN63199413an account where appropriate,  which may include preventing access to payments  or 
removing funds from an account. If NatWest didnt on occasion  act it could risk serious  
sanction.
Having considered all the evidence and information available to me, Im satisfied NatWest 
acted justifiably by taking the action  it did  and I understand  its reasons for doing so. I also 
find that the terms of Mr Ws account do permit  NatWest to take the action it did, and they 
were also reasonably applied.
I understand Mr W says the funds  in question werent returned to the remitter  in this case  
the account of his employer. He says his employers account had closed, so returning the 
funds to source wasnt possible.  Ive considered Mr Ws interpretation of what  returning 
funds to the remitter means. But I see NatWest only said it had returned the funds to the 
remitters bank, which doesnt mean the funds  were returned to the remitter itself. 
Ive also considered the evidence Mr W submitted to NatWest  in an attempt  to establish the 
validity of the payments.  But Ive needed  to balance his submissions  against  all the 
information and evidence available to me. And, after doing so, Im satisfied NatWest has 
acted appropriately  with regard to the funds it removed - so I wont be directing those funds 
to be returned  to Mr W.
The account  closure
I understand Mr W feels very strongly  that he is a customer  of good repute. And this may 
well be the case.  But NatWest can still make decisions on who it wants  as a customer, 
including existing customers. And in general,  it wouldnt  be appropriate for me to interfere 
with NatWests decisions in this regard as long as they represent a legitimate  exercise  of its 
commercial discretion.
NatWest should,  however, ensure  that it applies the terms of its accounts correctly when 
closing an account.  And, its decisions shouldnt be based on improper reasons or purposes, 
such as, for example,  discrimination. I see NatWest gave Mr W 14 days notice to find 
alternative banking  arrangements. But it also removed access  to his account  immediately, 
which in effect  is similar  to it closing  Mr Ws account with immediate  effect. In these  
circumstances, only specific account terms apply.
The investigator detailed  the applicable  terms in their view on Mr Ws complaint. And from 
Mr Ws response since this time its clear he is aware of them, so I find no reason to list them  
again here. But having closely  examined  the terms and all the evidence Ive available, Im 
satisfied several of the terms  do reasonably  apply.  So, on balance I find NatWest closed Mr 
Ws account appropriately  and for a legitimate reason. And, as a result,  I wont be directing 
NatWest to reopen the account.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive revealed above,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Ref: DRN63199414Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6319941