K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Hampton Mortgage  Servicing Limited, which administers his shared 
equity mortgage  on behalf of the lender, wont let him let the property out. As a result  hes 
had to re-mortgage to a buy to let mortgage with another lender.
background
Mr H bought his flat with the assistance  of a second  charge  shared  equity  mortgage  lent by a 
company related to the original housing developer. In 2016, the original lender transferred  
the mortgage to another lender Ill call P, and P appointed  Hampton  to administer the loan.
In 2018, Mr H decided  that he wanted to move out of the flat, to move  in with his new 
partner. He didnt  want to sell in case things didnt work out  and in the hope that the 
property would increase in value   so he asked Hampton  for permission  to let the property 
out.
Hampton said it had passed on his request to P. It said P had considered  the request 
against its criteria and refused it. So Mr H wouldnt be able to rent out his property.
Mr H complained. He acknowledged that the loan terms and conditions  said the property 
couldnt be rented out without the lenders consent,  but said consent shouldnt be 
unreasonably withheld  as he thought it had been here. He said P had applied arbitrary  and 
unfair criteria  to his request, which the original lender wouldnt have applied. He said that as 
Hampton was the regulated entity  responsible for his mortgage, it had an obligation to make 
sure he was treated  fairly. And he considered  renting  the property out was in the best 
interests of both himself  and of P.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr H asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to note here is that this is an unregulated loan. Shared equity agreements 
entered into around this time, where  no interest  is due during the life of the term and the only 
payment is an equity share at the end, fell outside financial regulation.  And P also isnt 
regulated, and I have  no power over it.
Hampton, however, is a regulated firm, and is carrying out a regulated activity in 
administering an (unregulated) debt on behalf  of the lender. As a result  I do have power over 
Hampton  but only in respect of things it, not P, has done.
Hampton administers the mortgage on behalf of P. It liaises with borrowers and, in due 
course, collects the redemption payments. But the terms of its agreement with P make clear  
that its acting as Ps agents, and that decisions which affect  the terms and conditions of the 
loan agreements have  to be made  by P, not by Hampton.  I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Hampton responsible for decisions it didnt, and wasnt empowered  to, make. 
Ref: DRN66547962In this case, Hampton received Mr Hs application and passed it on to P. P considered the 
application, and told Hampton that it wouldnt agree to it  which  Hampton then 
communicated to Mr H. Having looked  at the correspondence, I think  Hampton  responded to 
Mr Hs request within a reasonable time and passed on to him the explanation it had been 
given by P.
But I dont think Hampton made the decision itself, or can be held responsible for the 
decision P made. Mr H has referred to the Financial  Conduct Authoritys principles. But they 
dont oblige his request to be granted,  and in any case P isnt regulated  by the FCA, and nor 
is the mortgage. Hampton is  but, as Ive explained, it didnt make the decision Mr H is 
complaining about. So the principles dont apply here.
I do understand why Mr H disagrees  with the decision P made, and wishes  it were different.  
Thats not something I can consider. All I can do is look at whether Hampton acted fairly in 
putting his request to P, and relaying Ps answer to him. And I think  it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6654796