K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in April 2002.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I wasnt intending on 
upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I asked  everyone  to send  me any further comments and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mrs W nor FICL responded with anything  further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold      
Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy in April 2002.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept responsibility for the complaint.  To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs W bought  the policy in April 2002. The PPI was sold to her when she applied for a store card by 
filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Ref: DRN64430602Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that the consumer  had a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of sale. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
FICL has provided us with a copy  of Mrs Ws credit agreement. This shows Mrs W was given the 
option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section Protecting your Account, Mrs W was 
asked to sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking at Mrs Ws credit agreement , I can see she signed next 
to the statement Yes, I would  like to protect my Account  with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). 
Please debit my Account with the relevant  premium  until further notice.
Ive also noted that under  the same section on the application form, Mrs W had the option of selecting 
whether or not she wanted  the Card  Protection Plan. Mrs W didnt select this product, so I think she 
would have known she had a choice  about taking out either product. Overall, I think its more likely 
than not Mrs W would  have understood the PPI was optional.  And I dont think  she would  have 
selected the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have been  
particularly about the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs W chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover - so it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable.
The adjudicator considered that as Mrs W suffered  from a medical condition  at the time of sale,  it was 
possible that she would  have been  affected  by the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions. The adjudicator  considered that had Mrs W been made sufficiently aware  of this, then she 
might not have taken out the policy.
Having thought about this and what I currently know about Mrs Ws medical condition   I disagree 
with our adjudicators findings. Ill explain  why.
While Mrs Ws told us she had a medical  condition  at the time of sale.  She has also told us her 
condition didnt affect her day-to-day work life. Shes also not provided  us with any information to 
suggest that shes  had prolonged periods off work  because  of it.
So, whilst Mrs W could have  possibly been affected by the exclusion  meaning she couldnt  claim for 
her condition, I dont think Mrs W would  have thought at the time that she would have actually needed 
to claim for that condition. Or that she would  be off work  for 30 days, which was the excess (waiting) 
period before a claim  could be submitted. As a result,  I dont think  having  more  information about the 
policy exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to Mrs Ws decision  to take out PPI.
Mrs W has told us she would have received at least three months sick pay from her employer if she 
was too unwell  to work. Having thought about what Mrs W has said about  her sick pay, I dont think 
this means she wouldnt  have found the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would have paid out 
Ref: DRN64430603in addition to any sick pay Mrs W would have received  from her employer and would have paid out for 
longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs W was ever made  redundant.
So overall, I think  Mrs W could  have  found  the policy  useful  if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought  about  whether the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) new rules regarding 
undisclosed commission are relevant to Mrs Ws complaint. 
The Supreme Court  decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v Paragon  
Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)   who make the rules for financial 
businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow when  theyre  looking 
at PPI complaints. This means  businesses  will sometimes need to give consumers  back some of the 
commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But the new rules are about  what  lenders  need to do in cases where the rules apply, so this doesnt 
make a difference to this complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited  as they arent a 
lender.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think this complaint should  be upheld.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6443060