K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 1999. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt accept the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  because:
I dont think FICL  gave Mrs C good  enough information about  the policy,  in particular 
about the circumstances in which shed  be able to make an unemployment claim. 
This information also wasnt particularly prominent  to Mrs C. 
In this particular  case, I think this would have mattered to Mrs C because shes told 
us that at the time of sale she was in temporary employment, the hours were varied 
and she would get odd jobs. 
Broadly speaking, under  this PPI policy Mrs C wouldnt  be covered for unemployment 
claims that she knew were likely to arise at the start date. Given  what  Mrs C has said 
about her employment  circumstances at the time of sale I dont think she would have 
been easily able to claim on the policy for unemployment.
So I dont  think Mrs C wouldve bought  the policy if FICL had given  her enough  
information about it. So, I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL did wrong  
and I uphold this complaint.  
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Ref: DRN61582642A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs C that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158264