K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs W have  said that Halifax didnt make  it clear that they had a choice about 
taking out the PPI, and that they were told they had to take it for their mortgage 
application to be approved. Halifax has said that it would have made it clear that the PPI 
was optional. Obviously  I wasnt  there  at the time, so I cant  know  exactly  what was said.  
But I do have some paperwork  from the sale, and so Ive thought carefully about how the 
PPI was presented  on that paperwork to help me decide whats  more likely to have 
happened.
Ive seen the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs W completed in 1993. This included 
a separate section relating to PPI which set out brief details of what  kind of cover it 
provided, and asked applicants to enter details of the amount  of benefit they wanted, and 
how this should  be split between them. Mr and Mrs W selected cover for Mr W only.  
Later in the application, there  was then a declaration for Mr and Mrs W to sign which 
asked them to confirm  they had read the relevant  documents about the PPI cover. 
Theres nothing in these  documents  to suggest  that the PPI was compulsory or that 
taking it would affect the mortgage application  in any way. So with what  Ive seen, I think  
its more likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs W didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and that they chose  to take it out to cover Mr W.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W  as the sole policy  holder - so it had to check 
that the PPI was right for him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out to cover Mr W - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. I understand Mr W was entitled to good sick pay from his 
employer, but the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months,  longer than Mr W has 
said his sick pay would  have lasted. And it would  have  provided the same cover if Mr W 
had become unemployed. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So given that the 
mortgage was a serious financial commitment  secure against Mr and Mrs Ws home, I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W.
Ref: DRN62624192But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said, but their points dont  change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs W any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262419