K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) cancelled  her motor 
insurance policy from the start (voided  it). She wants  records  of the voidance  removed.
background
Miss M completed  her application for a policy online and then called RSA to complete  the 
purchase. A few days after the policy started,  Miss M had an accident.  RSA validated the 
claim and found that Miss M hadnt  disclosed  a previous claim. It said it wouldnt have 
offered cover if it had known of this. So it voided  the policy, refunded the premium  and 
declined the claim. Miss M said RSA had made a mistake as she hadnt received the policy 
documents and so she didnt have a chance  to correct the error or cancel the policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Miss M 
had been asked a clear  question about  previous accidents and claims when she applied for 
the policy. She saw that RSA wouldnt have offered a policy  if Miss M had answered 
accurately. So she thought it had reasonably  voided  the policy and refunded  the premium. 
She thought  RSA would  have acted in the same way if Miss M had cancelled her policy after 
receiving her documents.
Miss M replied that she was dependent on her car for personal reasons and RSAs decision 
had impacted on her and others. She thought RSA had made a mistake and this wasnt her 
fault. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA said it voided  Miss Ms policy because  she hadnt  disclosed  an accident and claim from 
four years before the policy  started. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the non-disclosure.  
RSA has shown us the question about  previous accidents and claims that Miss M was asked 
on her online  application. I think this is clear. I think this asked about any accidents  within  the 
past five years, not three  years as Miss M recalled. The website then advised that incorrect 
information could  result in the policy being  invalidated. 
Miss M said she completed the application  online and when she called RSA to complete the 
purchase, she wasnt asked about  accidents or claims in the last five years.  But Ive listened  
to the call and I think  Miss M was asked clearly if all the information shed completed on the 
application was correct. I wouldnt expect RSA to go over every detail as I think it could rely 
on Miss M completing the form accurately and checking this. 
Miss M also said RSA couldnt  find her quote.  But, having listened to this call, I think it did 
find the quote she completed and this was then updated for the correct  car registration. 
Ref: DRN66412182Miss M said she didnt receive  the policy documents and so couldnt  check  them. RSA said it 
sent the documents by email on the same  day the policy was purchased. I can see that it 
was sent to the same address as other emails received by Miss M. 
Ive listened to the claim notification call Miss M made five days after the policy  started and 
she said she hadnt then received the documents. I cant  say why Miss M didnt receive  the 
documents, but I think RSA did send them. In any case, I think  RSA would still have acted in 
the same  way if Miss M had contacted it to correct the detail. 
So I think RSA asked  Miss M a clear  question about  previous accidents  and claims within  
the previous five years and she answered this incorrectly. RSA has provided us with 
evidence from its underwriters it wouldnt have  provided cover  if Miss M had told it about the 
previous accident.  
So I think RSA was entitled under the relevant legislation  to void the policy.  RSA refunded  
Miss Ms premium, which I think is fair and reasonable as it hasnt shown that the non-
disclosure was deliberate  or reckless. 
So I cant say that RSA has acted unfairly  or unreasonably. RSA is obliged  under the 
relevant legislation to record  accurate information.  So I cant  require it to remove  records of 
the voidance.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6641218