K822xcomplaint
Mrs F is unhappy  with what Aviva Insurance Limited  did after she made a claim on her 
private medical insurance. 
background 
Mrs F took out private  medical  insurance  with Aviva in March 2017. On 4 January 2019 she 
made a claim as she needed  treatment for a back problem  (spinal  canal stenosis). Aviva 
considered the claim but turned this down on 15 January,  It said it didnt cover the treatment 
of pre-existing conditions  present in the five years  before the policy  was taken out (the 
moratorium period) unless  there had been no recurrence of the condition in the two years 
after the policy was taken out.  
In this case Mrs F had made  a claim within two years of taking out the policy  and it believed 
her condition was linked to one that shed received treatment and advice about in 2012  (for 
synovial cysts) within the moratorium period. So the claim shed made  was excluded under 
the terms of her policy. However,  after Mrs F complained to us Aviva accepted it could have 
done more to investigate exactly when she received treatment for her previous condition and 
offered to pay £150 because it hadnt done this earlier. 
Our investigator thought the claim  Mrs F made  did fall within  the moratorium period. And she 
thought Aviva had acted  reasonably in concluding  this was linked to the previous condition  
that affected Mrs F. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong in turning  down  the claim. 
She also thought  the £150 it had now agreed  to pay was enough to recognise the impact on 
Mrs F of its service failings. 
Mrs F didnt  agree. She said the two conditions were separate and this was supported  by 
evidence from the consultant who treated her in 2012. And she said it had taken Aviva too 
long to assess her claim. As she thought this would be covered shed opted  for private 
treatment instead  of making use of the NHS. So I need to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. In considering how that 
applies in this case Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mrs Fs policy.  The 
moratorium clause says:
We do not cover  treatment of any pre-existing condition,  or any related condition,  if you had:
symptoms of, medication for, diagnostic tests for, treatment for, or advice about that 
condition in the five years before you joined the policy. 
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have medication for, diagnostic  
tests for, treatment for, or advice about that condition during a continuous two-year period 
after you join the policy.
Ref: DRN67068702And the policy defines a pre-existing condition as any disease, illness or injury for which you 
have received medication, advice or treatment  or you have experienced symptoms whether 
the condition has been diagnosed or not, before you joined the policy. Advice  is defined  as 
any consultation, advice or prescription from a GP or specialist
In this case Mrs F made a claim within two years of taking out the policy. So she doesnt  fall 
outside of the continuous  two year period set out in the policy terms. And although the 
treatment for her previous condition took place in February 2012 (so more than five years 
before she took out the policy) a follow up appointment took place three weeks later. I 
understand its not in dispute  that fell within the five year period. 
The issue  is whether the condition Mrs F claimed  for in January 2019 was related to that pre-
existing condition. So Ive looked at the available evidence in relation to this. I can see that 
on receipt of the claim Aviva referred  the matter to its Chief Medical Officer. His medical 
opinion was this was the same problem and the cause was underlying degenerative 
changes. As a result he concluded the moratorium was not satisfied. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether theres any other medical evidence to contradict that. 
Mrs F believes the conditions are unrelated and has provided a letter  from her own 
consultant which she says supports that. Ive looked  carefully at that letter. I appreciate  that 
her consultant does  say in his opinion the 2012  issue was a closed episode of treatment for 
a specific problem (the cyst). And there was no recurrence of that problem in 2019. 
But he also goes on to say that the general  reason why these sort of cysts occur  is due to 
excess fluid production  within  an arthritic joint. And he says while there  were  otherwise few 
features to suggest  arthrosis in 2012 there was fluid collection  within the facet  joints.  He also 
notes that arthritis in a facet joint is a cause  of spinal stenosis (the condition Mrs F was 
treated for in 2019).  
And theres  no clear  medical evidence to show  a different cause for the cyst Mrs F was 
treated for in 2012  and the spinal stenosis in 2019. So while I appreciate they are in 
themselves different conditions I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in concluding  the 
underlying cause of both was the same. As a result I dont think  it treated Mrs F unfairly in 
turning down her claim on the basis this related to a pre-existing condition.  
Mrs F is also unhappy with how her claim was handled. And shes described  what a difficult  
time this was for her given  the urgency of the situation  and the potential  complications if an 
operation didnt take place. I do understand what a stressful and distressing time this must 
have been for her. 
I can see she made her claim on 4 January and Aviva sought further information from her 
GP about  her medical history. Its unclear when this was received but there  doesnt  seem to 
have been further activity  on the claim until Mrs F called again  on 14 January and a decision 
was made  the following day. So there  does appear to have been some  delay here.  
And its clear  in any case Aviva hadnt considered matters properly at that time because  it 
acknowledged in response to our inquiries that it should have done  more to investigate  at 
that point whether Mrs Fs condition was pre-existing or not. 
Ref: DRN67068703However, I also note Mrs F appears to have been  advised in two calls with Aviva that if she 
went ahead  with the procedure privately that would be at her own financial risk. And I 
understand there was an appointment available to Mrs F through the NHS but she decided  
to book privately. I can understand why she made that choice but ultimately I think in doing 
so she took on the risk the cost wouldnt be covered by her policy.  And for the reasons Ive 
explained I think Aviva  reached a fair decision on the claim she made. Taking that into 
account I think the £150 its now offered does  enough to recognise  the impact  on her of what 
it got wrong while it was doing so. 
. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited  will need to pay Mrs F 
£150 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6706870