K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  about what happened  when they rang Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) about a leak in their home.
background
Mr and Mrs Y have  home emergency insurance,  underwritten by IPA. They  bought that as 
part of an overall  home  insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs Y said that they rang IPA about  a leak in their home. They  said that the plumber 
didnt come out as quickly as they were told he would. And when he did arrive, he said he 
couldnt fix the leak, and advised  them to turn their water off. 
Mr and Mrs Y said that they are both elderly, and suffering from health conditions.  And the 
problem had happened on a Saturday. They  didnt  want to be left without any water in their 
home over the weekend.  So they said that they would only turn the water off if IPA provided 
them with alternative  accommodation. But IPA wouldnt pay for a hotel for them. It said that 
they should contact the underwriter who provided their home  insurance. Mr and Mrs Y told 
us that they werent able to do that, because the phone  lines werent open.
IPA said that its plumber wasnt able to fix the leak straight away,  because the leak came  
from a pipe encased  in concrete. So it couldnt stop the water  leaking unless it turned off the 
water to the whole house. And IPA said that it doesnt provide alternative accommodation as 
part of this policy. It said that Mr and Mrs Y would  have to contact their home  insurance  
underwriter for that.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that hed checked Mr and Mrs Ys 
policy, and IPA was right, there was no cover  for alternative accommodation under the part 
of the policy  that IPA underwrites. IPA just offers emergency  assistance, for instance, to stop 
the leak. So IPA was right to say that Mr and Mrs Y would  need to talk to their home 
insurance underwriter to get alternative  accommodation. 
Our investigator said that IPA had accepted that it didnt provide a plumber quickly or update 
Mr and Mrs Y about their claim. But it had offered £100 in compensation for that. He didnt 
think that IPA had to do any more  than this. 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt  agree with that. They said that they have only got one insurer, and that 
insurer shouldve sorted things out. And they also said that they werent able to get through  
to the other number  they had. Mr and Mrs Y wanted their case to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. Our investigator arranged  to open a new complaint for them, against their 
home insurer, and to pass this complaint to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr and Mrs Y bought a home insurance  policy.  Their policy offered home  cover  for 
buildings and contents, as well as emergency  cover. The home insurance and 
emergency insurance were each  provided by different  underwriters. And there were 
different numbers to call, depending  on what the problem was.
Ref: DRN68246702-Mr and Mrs Y had a leak. So they rang the home emergency helpline, which is open 24 
hours. They got through to IPA, which is the underwriter for this area of the policy.  IPA 
arranged for someone to attend  their property.  IPA says that it will try to get a plumber 
out within three hours, but that wasnt possible on this occasion. 
-When the plumber  turned  up, he wasnt able to stop the leak, because  of where it was 
located. So he suggested that the water should be turned  off. 
-The notes from the time say 
ounfortunately there is no accommodation cover  on this policy
oadvised him he can keep receipts if need  be and attempt to claim the money  
back when claims are open.
ogave customer the claims number.
-So it seemed  as if IPA did give Mr and Mrs Y some advice about what  to do. But it 
looked as if that advice may have been  partly wrong. 
-Mr and Mrs Y were  told that they would need to contact their home insurance 
underwriter. That was right. But it also seemed as if the person who spoke to Mr and 
Mrs Y about this told them that they would need to pay for their accommodation, and 
then try to claim it back later. It seemed as if the person who was offering this advice to 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt  know that their home insurance underwriter  also had a 24 hour 
helpline. Mr and Mrs Y couldve called  that number.  
-Mr and Mrs Y didnt  choose to buy separate insurance cover for their home and for any 
home emergencies. They  bought one policy, and paid one premium  for it. It just 
happened that this policy had separate underwriters for separate areas  of the policy. But 
those areas are closely interlinked.  So I thought  it was reasonable to expect  that if IPA 
was asked to pay for a claim  which wasnt covered under its part of the policy,  but might 
be covered under  the other part of the policy, IPA should  suggest that the policyholder  
should talk to the other underwriter. And I thought it was reasonable to expect  that the 
advice that IPA gives would be right. I thought that IPA shouldve  passed on a 24 hour 
number for the other underwriter. 
-Mr and Mrs Y didnt  think  there  was a 24 hour number for the other underwriter. I didnt 
know if they thought this because they had rung a different  number, and found it was 
shut, or because IPA told them that the other  underwriters claims line was closed. But 
there was a 24 hour number for the other underwriter in their policy  booklet.  I thought 
that IPA, if it was suggesting that Mr and Mrs Y should call their other underwriter, and 
doing so out of hours, shouldve given Mr and Mrs Y that out of hours number,  and told 
them that it would still be open. 
-IPA paid Mr and Mrs Y £100 in compensation because  it took well over three hours to 
get a plumber to them, and because  it didnt keep them updated  with the progress on 
their claim after the plumber visited. But it hadnt done anything about  the problems they 
faced in getting alternative  accommodation.  I thought that problem couldve been 
avoided if IPA had offered a very small  amount  of help to Mr and Mrs Y to claim on their 
home insurance policy. I thought that IPA provided poor service, because  it didnt do 
that. So I thought that IPA should pay a further £50, in addition  to the compensation it 
has already paid. 
Ref: DRN68246703I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
IPA replied to say that it accepted the provisional  decision. But Mr and Mrs Y replied to say 
that I hadnt addressed their concerns.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr and Mrs Y said that the conversation with IPA took place on Saturday, not Friday as I had 
said. I apologise if Ive made a mistake about  that, and Ive amended this decision 
accordingly. But they said that wasnt the main issue. 
They said theyd been told to turn their water off. They asked how their water supply could 
be terminated, without  an alternative source being  provided. They  said that, as they 
understood it, if a water  authority  terminates a water supply, then they have to supply an 
alternative, either through  bottled water  or by stand pipe.  So Mr and Mrs Y wanted  to know 
how IPA could legally instruct them  to turn off their water supply to prevent further damage to 
their house,  when that would put their health  at risk? If they turned the water off, that 
wouldve left them without  heating during winter,  and without  clean drinking water. 
I dont think that IPA would instruct Mr and Mrs Y to turn off their water.  I would expect IPA to 
advise them to do so, if that was the only way to avoid further  damage  to their home. That 
means I dont think that IPA did anything wrong when it gave them  that advice.
Mr and Mrs Y have  said that the water authority isnt allowed to leave them without water.  
But I dont think that the advice IPA gave them is the same as a water authority turning off a 
supply to a home. IPA isnt responsible for making  sure that Mr and Mrs Y have water in 
their home, in the same way as a water authority is.
I think that what Mr and Mrs Y were saying was that if they accepted the advice to turn off 
their water, that would mean that they couldnt stay in their home. It wouldnt be habitable. 
But I understand that the policy they bought  does provide some cover for paying for hotel 
accommodation, if their home  isnt habitable. That part of the policy is underwritten by a 
different company. 
IPA didnt tell Mr and Mrs Y to get in touch with this company, using its 24-hour helpline.  
Instead, it said that Mr and Mrs Y would  have to keep receipts for their hotel 
accommodation, and try to claim it back afterwards.  Ive explained  that I think that advice 
was wrong. But I think  thats the only thing that IPA got wrong. So I dont think it has to do 
more now than pay the extra £50 in compensation that I recommended in my provisional  
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Inter Partner  Assistance SA must pay Mr and Mrs Y a further £50 in 
compensation, in addition  to the £100 compensation it has already paid for this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Ref: DRN68246704Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6824670