K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC increased his credit card limit without 
properly checking  to make sure this was affordable. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in August 2019  not upholding the complaint. A copy  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Barclays responded to accept my provisional decision.
Mr M didnt  accept the provisional decision.  In summary, he said:
Barclays only increased  his credit limit in order to accommodate  its fees and charges, 
and
They didnt write to him to explain they were  going to increase his credit limit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Ive already considered the points  raised  by Mr M when I made the findings in my provisional 
decision. So I dont  think there is much  more that I can add to what I have  already  said.  But  
to help explain my thoughts for Mr M, I have  revisited the points raised  by him.
Ive checked Mr Ms credit  card statements  prior to the increase. I accept that he was close  
to the limit the month  before his credit  limit was increased, £244.38  used of the £250  
available. But I havent seen any evidence that suggests or supports that Barclays  increased 
the credit  limit to accommodate  its fees and charges.
Mr M was continuing to make his minimum monthly  payment  in the months  leading  up to the 
credit limit increase and Barclays  hadnt added any additional fees other than its usual 
interest rate charge  for having an outstanding balance. And the minimum monthly payment 
that Mr M was making was slightly higher than the interest that was accruing on the card.
Having taken account of all the information  Barclays wouldve had access  to prior to making 
its decision to increase Mr Ms credit limit, Ive not found there to have been  any significant 
indicators that shouldve  alerted it to Mr M being  in financial difficulty or that it wouldve been  
difficult for him to manage it. 
I remain of the view that it was more  likely  than not that Barclays  did give Mr M a minimum of 
30 days notice before it increased his credit limit. Barclays system notes show  that a letter  
was sent to him on 29 June 2016 and it has also provided a template of the letter  that 
wouldve been sent, as it has been unable to provide the actual letter  it sent him.
Ref: DRN67777422I was sorry to hear of the personal difficulties  Mr M experienced shortly after the limit 
increase and I understand why he says this prevented him from making the minimum 
monthly payments  due. However, I cant conclude that these meant that the decision taken 
by Barclays some months earlier was irresponsible, or means that it didnt treat him fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint against Barclays  Bank UK PLC and I wont  
be asking it to take any further steps  to resolve  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67777423Provisional decision  copy
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays  Bank UK Plc increased his credit  card limit without properly 
checking to make sure this was affordable. 
Background
Mr M opened a credit  card account with Barclays in February 2016.  His initial limit was £250. He also 
held a current account with Barclays.  
Between 24 February and 23 March 2016 Mr M spent £244.99 on the card. In the following months he 
didnt use the card for any additional spending  and paid the minimum amount each month by direct 
debit. 
Barclays system notes show  it decided  to increase Mr Ms credit limit on 29 June 2016. It says it 
wouldve written to Mr M to confirm this, but does not have a copy of the letter that was sent.  
On 9 August 2016 Barclays increased Mr Ms credit  limit to £650. Barclays sent a text message to the 
mobile number registered on Mr Ms account  on 12 August 2016 confirming  it had increased his credit 
card limit. 
Mr M continued paying the minimum  monthly payment ,and didnt spend any more on the card until 
September 2016. In November 2016 the account  balance  was £263.49. Mr s minimum  payment on 
21 November 2016 was returned as unpaid. His December 2016 direct debit was also returned, and 
Barclays notes show the direct debit was cancelled on 23 December  2016.  
Because Mr M hadnt made his last two payments, Barclays  reduced his credit limit to £350  with effect 
from 30 December 2016. It also sent regular  default notices and attempted  to reach Mr M by 
telephone to try and resolve things. Twice a member of Mr Ms family contacted  Barclays offering  to 
pay the account, but as they didnt pass security, Barclays couldnt  provide a settlement figure. 
The account  was sold to debt collectors in September 2017. By that point charges of £92.44 for 
missed payments had been added to Mr Ms account  balance and had attracted  interest along  with 
his spending balances. 
Mr M contacted  us in August 2017 and said he was unhappy that Barclays had increased his limit at a 
time when he couldnt afford it and was vulnerable. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and felt it should be upheld.  He felt Barclays shouldnt have  increased Mr Ms limit and recommended 
it rework  the account to remove all interest and charges  applied following the credit  limit increase.  
Barclays did not agree  with this and so the complaint had been passed to me to consider afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ive set 
out below my reasons for this. 
relevant considerations
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  sets out in its Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) what it 
expects firms to do when they assess a consumers creditworthiness  and affordability.  At the time 
Barclays increased Mr Ms limit CONC 6.2 applied. This said:  
Before significantly  increasing: 
Ref: DRN67777424(a)the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated credit agreement; or
(b)a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated credit agreement;
the lender must undertake an assessment of the customers creditworthiness.
When assessing  a consumers  creditworthiness, the FCA required firms to consider the potential  for 
commitments under the credit agreement to adversely  impact consumers, based on what the firm 
knew about its customer  at the time, and the ability  of the consumer to make repayments as they fell 
due over the course of the agreement. 
CONC 6.2.1(3)  said:
A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information obtained from: 
(a)the customer, where appropriate, and
(b)a credit reference agency, where necessary
In addition to the specific rules dealing  with creditworthiness assessments, Barclays also has a 
regulatory obligation to treat its customers fairly.
In assessing Mr Ms complaint,  Im also mindful of the 2011 UK Cards  Association (UKCA) Best 
Practice Guidelines for credit  card limit increases.  The UKCA is a voluntary body,  so its rules and 
guidance do not have  the same force  as regulation.  However I consider them  to be an indication of 
whats considered to be good industry practice. And as Barclays is a member  of the UKCA, it seems 
reasonable to me to consider whether  it complied with this guidance when deciding to increase Mr 
Ms credit  card limit. 
Amongst other things,  the UKCA says businesses  must give their customers a minimum of 30 days 
notice before increasing their credit limit. They should also undertake appropriate  checks to assess  a 
customers ability to repay the account  and the customers overall creditworthiness before increasing 
a credit limit.
In considering this complaint, I need to decide whether Barclays has treated Mr M fairly. In thinking  
about this, ve considered  all relevant factors, in particular whether  Barclays took adequate steps to 
check Mr Ms creditworthiness. If I find that it didnt, or cant  show that it did, then Ill need to go on 
and consider what it wouldve discovered  if it had. And in turn whether  I think  that means it was 
reasonable for it have raised his limit.
my analysis
Barclays increased Mr Ms credit limit by over 250%, from £250 to £650. I consider this to have been 
a significant increase, and so Barclays shouldve assessed Mr Ms creditworthiness  before doing  so. 
Barclays has provided  the affordability check it carried  out prior to increasing Mr Ms credit limit. This 
shows the data it obtained from external credit  reference agencies demonstrated Mr M could afford a 
credit limit increase beyond the £650 he was ultimately given.
Mr M also banked with Barclays. Its been said that had Barclays looked  at his accounts it wouldve 
seen the increase wasnt affordable and that Mr M would struggle to pay for any further borrowing. 
Ive therefore considered what Barclays might  have  discovered had it looked at the other accounts  Mr 
M held with it. 
Mr M had a current account and two savings  accounts with Barclays.  Between March and June 2016 
over £11,000 passed  through  Mr Ms current account.  He had few regular bills set up on the account, 
and the majority of the transactions he made were cash withdrawals. Between  March  and September 
2016, five direct debits were returned as unpaid. 
Ref: DRN67777425Ive thought about whether the returned direct debits ought to have  alerted Barclays to the possibility 
Mr M might be having some financial difficulties.  But I dont think  thats a reasonable conclusion for 
me to reach in this complaint. I say this because Mr M maintained a consistent flow of money through  
his accounts.  He received  payments from a private individual which  he then transferred to a savings 
account or withdrew in cash. And the majority of spending on the account appears to be inessential  
in other words it was for leisure and lifestyle purposes, not to pay bills. So whilst Mr M may not have 
always had sufficient  funds  in his account to meet the payment requests, that could just have easily 
been an administrative matter in terms of available funds as being any indication  that Mr M was in 
financial difficulties.
I have taken into account that Mr Ms credit card was very close to its existing limit at the time 
Barclays offered him the limit increase. I have also considered all of the information  Barclays would 
reasonably have had access to prior to making its decision. And Ive not found that there was any 
significant indication  that ought to have alerted Barclays to Mr M being  in financial difficulty or that it 
would have been difficult for him to manage the increase. So I havent  found that Barclays granting Mr 
M the increase was irresponsible. 
As well as considering  whether the increase was reasonable and supported by appropriate evidence, 
Ive also considered whether  Barclays  gave Mr M the correct notice of the increase, and therefore  
also the option to reject it. 
Ive seen Barclays system notes and these show Mr M was sent a letter on 29 June 2016.  Barclays 
has been unable  to provide  the exact letter it says it sent Mr M, however looking at its system  notes  
and the templates it has supplied, I am satisfied  that it is more likely than not it did give Mr M a 
minimum of 30 days notice  of the increase, and let him know he could opt out of it if he wanted to. 
It is unfortunate that a short  time after the increase took effect Mr M experienced some personal 
difficulties which he says have prevented  him from meeting his obligations under  the credit card 
contract. However this change in Mr Ms circumstances does not mean  the decision Barclays took 
some months  earlier was irresponsible,  or that it failed to treat him fairly.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am minded not to uphold  the complaint.  If any responses from the 
parties do not change my findings, I will not be making  any award.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6777742