K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the service that shes received from Volkswagen  Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Seat Finance, in connection with a hire purchase agreement.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs W under a hire purchase agreement with Seat Finance that 
she signed in October  2016. She agreed to make  48 monthly payments of £206.37 to it for 
the car. 
She says that she told it about a change of address  and bank details in July 2018 but 
Seat Finance continued to try to collect payments from her old account which  were  rejected 
and led to arrears on her account. Mrs W agreed  to make additional payments of £70 in 
January 2019  but she says that Seat Finance didnt collect the additional  £70. She also says 
that her husband has had difficulties using its automated system to make payments  and that 
its given him contradictory  about  the account.
She complained to Seat Finance but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this 
service. The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that 
he hadnt seen  evidence to suggest  that Seat Finance had done anything  wrong.  Hed 
listened to the call that Mrs W had made to it in July 2018 and he was satisfied that it wasnt  
informed of any change  in her bank details.
Mrs W has asked  for her complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. She believes that 
Seat Finance has taken  out some  of the recording of the July 2018 call and that she gave it 
her new bank details.  She says that shes asked for a recording of the call and Seat Finance 
is constantly making mistakes. Shes attached  a letter sent to her in July 2019 in which  she 
says that the amount owing is incorrect. She says that its used the wrong  disposable 
income so calculated that she could afford  to pay more  than she could. She says that her 
husband was told that an incorrect amount was owing on the account and that there have  
been difficulties  with bank transfers and Seat Finances office being shut. She says that she 
wants her credit file to be rectified and also some compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording  of Mrs Ws call to Seat Finance in July 2018. She made a manual 
payment against  the arrears on her account  from a different bank account, there was a 
discussion about changing her payment and she provided her new address. She said that 
the account details that she provided  were  for that payment and there  was no discussion 
about her changing her bank details for future  payments.
Mrs W believes that Seat Finance has taken  out some of the recording  but Ive seen no 
evidence to support  her belief, its not consistent with the recording that I listened to and Im 
not persuaded that its likely that Seat Finance would have interfered with the recording in 
these circumstances.  I dont consider that Mrs W did tell Seat Finance about  a change of her 
bank details so I dont consider that it acted  incorrectly when it continued to try to collect  the 
monthly payment  from her old account.
Ref: DRN61977102Seat Finance says that its provided a recording of the call to Mrs W and the investigator has 
asked her to confirm whether or not shes received it  but she hasnt responded to that 
request. If she hasnt received the recording,  I suggest that she asks Seat Finance again to 
provide her with it. 
Mrs W has clearly had some financial difficulties and her account  has been  in arrears. 
I sympathise with her for that. A credit  provider is required to respond  to a customers  
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Seat Finance agreed a repayment  
arrangement with Mrs W under which she was going to make  additional  monthly payments 
of £70. It confirmed that arrangement in an e-mail to Mrs W in January  2019 which  said that 
the payments  needed to be made manually.  Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence 
to show that Seat Finance acted incorrectly in working out what  was an affordable 
repayment arrangement  for Mrs W or in the way that the arrangement was set up.
Mrs W has complained about the difficulties that her husband has had in making payments 
to Seat Finance  by bank transfer and in contacting it. But Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that Seat Finance has acted incorrectly in connection with those 
issues.
Mrs W also says that Seat Finance gave her husband incorrect  information about  the arrears  
on her account. Seat Finance then confirmed to the adjudicator that £127.71 was payable  
and that an agreement had been  reached for it to repaid in July and August 2019.
Seat Finance says the account is up to date with no arrears. I understand that it has 
recorded adverse  information about her payment  history on her credit  file but Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the information that its recorded is not 
a true and accurate record of her payment history.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Seat Finance  has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mrs W (and her husband) in connection with her payments  
under the agreement. So I dont consider that it would  be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require it to remove any of the adverse information from her credit 
file, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6197710