K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained because Ageas Insurance Limited declined their buildings 
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs K made a claim for damage caused to their home  by water leaking from a supply  
tank. They took the opportunity to do some home  improvements alongside the repairs  that 
were needed  to fix the damage caused  by the water  leak. During  the claim, someone  
entered the property and set fire to it. Mr and Mrs K made another claim for the damage 
caused by the fire. Mr and Mrs K werent  living at the property at the time of the fire.
Ageas declined the claim for the fire damage. It said Mr and Mrs K provided incorrect  
information during  the claim in respect of the house  being fully locked and the theft of some 
copper pipe a few weeks before the fire. Ageas  also said Mr and Mrs K hadnt taken 
sufficient care of their property.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which set out why I didnt think  this complaint should  be 
upheld. Ive summarised the relevant  parts of my provisional decision below:  
was the front door left secure?
Much  of Ageass  position appeared to be based on how secure the front door was at the 
time of the fire. I thought there  could  only be four possibilities  the door was left 
completely open, was closed and not secured  at all, was closed and on the latch, or was 
closed and fully locked.
I didnt think Ageass descriptions  of how the door had been left  eg open,  unlocked, 
insecure  were  accurate. The fire investigator (whose report I thought was the strongest 
piece of evidence  Id seen in respect to the security of the front door)  said the door lock 
had a five point locking system, with the internal  handle operating a latch  and four bolts  
with the external handle only operating the four bolts. He said this meant a key was 
needed to open  the door when it was closed and on the latch. He further said that 
following the fire the latch was broken, consistent with the door being forcibly opened 
while it was latched.
Ageas  referred  to Mr K admitting to its investigator that he left the door unlocked. I hadnt 
been provided with a recording  or transcript of the conversation when this was said so it 
wasnt clear to me whether Mr K actually  said unlocked, or if he did say unlocked, 
whether he meant it in the context of the door being  left closed and not secured at all or it 
being closed and on the latch.
I concluded the most likely situation was that the door was closed and on the latch. So it 
was secured in the sense that to open it someone either needed to have the key or 
needed to overcome the locking  mechanism by some other means. I wasnt  persuaded 
the door was left open or that it was simply closed without  any form of locking 
mechanism in place.  I also wasnt persuaded that the door was fully locked.
Ref: DRN69820592I noted that after Id put my thoughts to Ageas on this point it agreed that the door was 
closed and on the latch.
reasonable care
It was a requirement for Mr and Mrs K to take reasonable  care to prevent a loss from 
happening or to prevent a loss that has happened from getting any worse. For Ageas to 
be able to decline the claim on this basis it had to show  that Mr and Mrs K had been 
reckless (which more than them being careless  or absentminded)  by showing that:
othey recognised  there was a risk of something happening
obut they took that risk anyway by taking no measures to prevent it from 
happening or by taking  measures  which they knew, or ought to have known, were 
inadequate.
Ageas  was essentially arguing  that Mr and Mrs K knew  there was a risk of their 
unoccupied home  being broken into and they took that risk by not fully engaging the lock.
Mr and Mrs K argued that the damage was caused by fire rather than burglary and that 
the incident would still have occurred  even if the front door had been  fully locked.
I wasnt persuaded by what Mr and Mrs K had said. It was impossible to know  whether 
the incident would have occurred  if the door been properly  locked. But irrespective of 
whether it was a fire claim or a burglary claim, the evidence  suggested that whoever 
started the fire came  in through  the front door. So the security of the door, and any 
reasonable care that Mr and Mrs K needed to take to ensure it was secure, was relevant 
to the claim.
Mr and Mrs K told Ageas they returned to the property every night to lock the front door. I 
thought those actions showed  that Mr and Mrs K recognised the risk of leaving their 
home unlocked   if they didnt recognise  the risk they wouldnt have returned every night 
to lock the door. I felt Mr and Mrs K took some action to prevent/reduce the risk. But I felt 
that in simply leaving  the door on the latch and not fully locking the door they took action 
that they knew, or ought to have  known, was inadequate.
There were  arguments both ways. It could  have been said that whilst Mr and Mrs K could 
have done more to fully lock the property that didnt automatically mean that what  they 
did do was insufficient. On the other hand,  it could have  been  argued that not fully 
locking the door meant it was easier to overcome the door.
Overall, given the risk that had been  recognised  (which was significantly higher as the 
property wasnt being lived in), I thought Mr and Mrs K took the risk by taking measures 
which they ought to have known  were inadequate. I therefore  concluded that Ageas 
treated Mr and Mrs K fairly by relying  on the reasonable care clause to decline  their 
claim.
unoccupancy endorsements
Ageas  made two arguments about  the property being unoccupied  one about an 
endorsement on the policy which said that when  Mr and Mrs K went to bed for the night 
or left their home  unattended cover for damage caused by theft, vandalism or malicious 
people only applied  if they had a specific type of lock fitted and the lock is engaged; the 
Ref: DRN69820593other about Mr and Mrs K not telling it the property would be unoccupied for more  than 
30 days, which denied  it the chance to put a separate security endorsement on the 
policy which  would have  reduced the cover  provided  and required Mr and Mrs K to put all 
security precautions into operation whenever  the house was unattended.
For the first argument I said the endorsement only applied  to theft, vandalism and 
malicious damage claims, and that I thought  there was an argument that it didnt apply 
here as its a fire claim.  But irrespective of that, it wasnt  clear to me that the 
endorsement applied  to Mr and Mrs Ks policy as a policy document  in Ageass file 
referred to three endorsements, none of which related to locks  or security.
For the second argument  I said Mr and Mrs K were required to tell Ageas if they left their 
home unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive  days. Id seen emails  from the first claim 
where Mr and Mrs K told the loss adjuster (who was acting  as Ageass agent) about the 
need for them to live elsewhere for six weeks whilst the repairs  were being done  and 
despite being put on notice of the property  being (or becoming) unoccupied Ageas didnt 
reduce the cover provided or add the security endorsement to the policy. 
Id also seen emails  where one of Ageass representatives said the property wasnt 
unoccupied and that was one aspect of the claim they were satisfied with. As Ageas  and 
its representatives disagreed over whether  the property was even unoccupied, I found it 
difficult to be persuaded  that the cover  would have been amended if Mr and Mrs K had 
said the property  was unoccupied. I felt that what Ageas  would have done was 
dependent on who Mr and Mrs K happened to tell.
Ageas  had also told us that the property  being unoccupied might have altered its 
decision to continue  cover had it known about it. I didnt think  that was enough,  as Ageas 
needed to show  that the unoccupied  property  would have altered its decision to continue  
cover.
Finally, Ageas continued to insure  the property after the fire damage  even  though it was 
aware at that stage  that Mr and Mrs K werent  living in the property. And despite this, I 
hadnt seen anything which showed  that Ageas took any steps to reduce the cover  going 
forward or apply the endorsement.
I concluded it was unfair for Ageas to decline the claim on the basis of any breach of 
endorsement. However, that was largely  a moot point given my earlier  conclusion  about 
Mr and Mrs K not taking reasonable care.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs K thought my decision was unfair.  They didnt think  locking the door as they did 
was taking unreasonable care because it was their usual practice to just shut the front door,  
which was self-locking. They also felt the fire would have happened however  the door was 
locked  they referred to fully secured properties still being broken into. Ultimately, they said 
the door was closed  and locked, and the arsonist needed to damage the door in order  to 
force it open. They also mentioned that the door didnt  have  a latch.
Ageas agreed  with my conclusion on the reasonable care point. But it disagreed with me 
about how the door was secured. It now had a copy of the police report which said there 
didnt appear to be any tool marks to any window or door to suggest a break  in. Ageas felt 
the damage noted by the fire investigator  (whose  inspection was 11 days  after the incident) 
Ref: DRN69820594would also have been noticed by the police had it been there. In essence, Ageas feels the 
police report suggests  that the damage  to the door was caused after the fire. It also felt it 
was reasonable  to assume the door was open  at the time of the incident.
Ageas also made some  comments about  the endorsements on the policy and about what it 
would have done had it known the property would be unoccupied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was the front door left secure?
I dont know whether the door had a latch or not  I referred to it being on the latch because 
thats how the fire investigator referred to it. Nevertheless, irrespective of the terminology 
used, I conclude from what the investigator said that the door wasnt  fully locked.
The excerpt from the police report adds to the intrigue,  although I dont think given what  Ive 
concluded in the above paragraph that its critical to the outcome of the complaint. Its not 
clear whether the damage to the door noted  by the investigator was present immediately 
after the fire. And while I acknowledge  what Ageas said,  it might be that the police missed 
the damage in the immediate aftermath of the fire or didnt include it in their report. 
reasonable care
The fact Mr and Mrs Ks usual practice was to shut the door as they did doesnt  
automatically mean, in my opinion, that they took reasonable  care.  Turning that argument 
around, its just as arguable if thats  what they always did that they never took reasonable 
care.
Im not persuaded by the argument about the property being set alight irrespective of how 
the door was locked.  Its true that the most  sophisticated security can be overcome by a thief 
determined to break in to the property. But I think its too much of a leap to say that means if 
Mr and Mrs K had fully locked their door the fire would still have happened. As the fire was 
set by someone who broke into the property, the security that was in place is relevant to the 
claim. So it follows that Mr and Mrs Ks failure to take reasonable care to secure their 
property is also relevant. And thats enough  to enable Ageas  to fairly rely on the term to 
decline the claim.
unoccupancy endorsements
Ive noted what  Ageas has said about  the endorsements that either  were,  or would have 
been applied  to the policy. I still think there are flaws  in some of Ageass argument,  but its 
not necessary  for me to dwell on that further given the conclusion Ive already  reached.
summary of conclusions
I conclude that:
at the time of the fire the front door wasnt fully locked, and
Ref: DRN69820595it was fair for Ageas to rely on the reasonable care term in the policy to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ks claim
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982059