K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that her pet insurance claim was turned down by Great  Lakes Insurance 
SE. She says Great Lakes didnt make the policy terms sufficiently clear.
My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
background
Miss S has a pet insurance policy for her dog. The insurer is Great  Lakes. 
In 2018 Miss Ss dog had some  teeth extracted. She made a claim to Great  Lakes for the 
veterinary costs. But Great Lakes  turned  down  the claim. It said that dental  treatment  wasnt  
covered under the policy unless the dental  work was caused by an accident. As Miss Ss 
dog hadnt had an accident the claim wasnt covered. The policy  also didnt cover a routine 
scale and polish. Miss S thought the exclusion wasnt sufficiently prominent in the policy and 
she came  to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Great  Lakes had made the policy  
cover and exclusions for dental  treatment reasonably clear.  Miss S didnt  agree as the dental 
exclusion was on page 27 of the policy. Our investigator sent her the policy  summary (or 
key facts information)  where the dental  exclusion was on page  2. Miss S didnt comment 
further but as shed  earlier asked  for an ombudsman review  the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Great Lakes was fairly entitled to reject the claim. I think  it was and 
Ill explain  why.
I think the policy summary (or key facts) clearly sets out information for the different levels of 
cover available under the different branded policies underwritten  by Great  Lakes. The table 
of cover on page 2 of the policy summary  document shows  key information including 
whether the policy  covers  dental problems. For the type of policy  that Miss S selected the 
summary shows that dental  cover is for accidents  only. 
The policy document sets out the contents  on page  4, and this includes section 5. Your 
cover, which starts  on page 24. As Miss S says the information about dental  treatment is on 
page 27 of the Your  Cover  section. There is a heading marked  Dental  which says:
We will pay for necessary dental  treatments due to an accident.  
 We will not pay for dental treatments unless  they are caused  by an accident
 We will not pay for routine scale and polish or crowns
Miss S says the dental information should appear earlier in the policy  document.  But having  
looked at the policy  document and summary  I think that the exclusion for dental treatment 
unless caused  by an accident  is clear  and reasonably prominent and that Great Lakes  can 
rely on it. 
Ref: DRN67998602The veterinary evidence  doesnt show that Miss Ss dog needed dental extractions due to an 
accident. So Great Lakes  was fairly  entitled to reject the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6799860