K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about the decision  and handling of a claim he made  with Marks & 
Spencer Financial  Services  Plc under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Mr Rs claim related to rail season  ticket  he had purchased using credit provided by Marks & 
Spencer Financial  Services  Plc (M&S).  
background
In early 2016, Mr R used his M&S credit card to purchase a season ticket from 
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited  (GTR) to travel on rail services  between Brighton and 
London Blackfriars  for the following 12 months.  The cost of this season ticket  was £3,764. 
It isnt disputed that users of the rail services  provided on this line during this period 
experienced cancellations, delays  and alterations. These issues  have been well 
documented. Mr R has referred to a number of publications himself and has provided  lots of 
information about the issues experienced with the rail service during this period. Mr R 
considers that the service he received was so poor that GTR  was in breach of the contract 
he entered with them  for the provision  of rail services.  
Subject to certain  provisos, where  a consumer has a claim for breach of contract, section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the Act) allows for a consumer to make that claim against 
the creditor who provided finance  for that agreement. In this case,  this means  that Mr R was 
able to bring a claim against M&S  for alleged breach of his season ticket  contract.  
Mr R made  his claim against M&S in July 2018. In September 2018, M&S responded to the 
claim, providing referral  rights to this service  at the same time. M&S said that it did not 
consider the terms  of Mr Rs contract  with GTR  to have been breached. They  said that 
delays themselves did not constitute  a breach of the contract, and that in any case  the 
contract made provision  for at least partial reimbursement in the event of delays through  the 
Delay Repay scheme (the scheme). 
The investigator has previously set out the relevant terms in the contract Mr R had with GTR. 
And I do not intend  to repeat these in full here. It is enough to say that the terms of the 
contract were largely set out in the NRCoC. Condition  42 of this document  set out the rights 
of customers for compensation suffered as a result  of delays,  cancellations or poor service. 
It set out some minimum requirements  for the amount of compensation but said that the 
exact amount  payable  would depend on the individual  train companys Charter. 
Condition 42(c) went on to state:
This Condition 42 sets out the entire liability of the relevant Train  Companies in 
relation to delays,  cancellations and poor service... 
Ref: DRN62800612As the NRCoC indicates, GTRs Charter in part sets out the compensation GTR will pay 
under the scheme. The levels of compensation were greater than the minimum required by 
the NRCoC. They were  based on the price  of a single ticket;  which  for annual  season ticket 
holders, such as Mr R, was 1/464 x total ticket price.  And the compensation levels were 50% 
of this for delays of 30 minutes or more, rising to 100% for delays of 60 minutes  or more. 
From December 2016 GTR also revised this to also include  25% for delays of 15 minutes or 
more. Season  ticket  holders were  also entitled  to enhanced compensation if they had delays 
of 30 minutes or more  on 12 or more  days during  a reporting period (roughly a month). 
These terms, including  the level of compensation GTR  itself would pay, were unilaterally 
imposed (to use Mr Rs wording). They were not the subject of individual  negotiation. 
M&S said that Mr R had claimed  and received reimbursements  amounting  to £122.90  
through the scheme. They also said that Mr R had received a further £313.70 one-off 
compensation payment that GTR  provided in recognition of longer-running issues with the 
rail service.  
Mr R remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to this service. In part, he didnt consider 
GTR could limit its, and M&Ss, liability for contractual failures  and felt that any clause that 
did this was unfair. Mr R was also unhappy  with M&Ss claim handling, which  he felt wasnt  
detailed enough  and that M&S hadnt  tried to negotiate a higher settlement with GTR.  
Our investigator sympathised  with Mr R over the issues he had experienced with his rail 
service, considering that GTR had likely failed to provide the level of service  it had been 
expected to. But felt that the compensation Mr R had received under the contract  was the 
appropriate response to the circumstances. And that he was not entitled to further  
compensation. The investigator did not consider the scheme to be unfair, pointing  out that 
the compensation offered  by GTR was higher than the minimum requirement set out in the 
National Rail Conditions  of Carriage (NRCoC) . As Mr R had received the appropriate 
compensation from GTR, he would  not be successful in a like-claim against  M&S.
Our investigator also said that, whilst  he appreciated the efforts  Mr R had gone to in making  
his claim,  he felt that M&Ss handling of and response to that claim was appropriate. And 
that M&S  was not required to enter negotiations  with a supplier for compensation payable to 
a debtor. 
Mr R remained  unhappy. Mr R considered the alleged breach of contract to have been as a 
result of negligence on behalf of GTR,  and that the scheme unreasonably restricted  GTRs 
liability. He felt that although the scheme might be seen as appropriate to deal with individual 
journeys, it was not to sustained failures.  And he felt that the terms relating to the scheme 
were unfair and so should not be binding  on him. Mr R also pointed out that, whilst he had 
made some claims under the scheme,  he had not claimed on every occasion he was 
entitled.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his opinion though. As such, this complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62800613Mr R has provided detailed  arguments for why the compensation he has received is not 
appropriate in his circumstances. Like the investigator, I am sorry to hear about  the 
difficulties he has experienced with his rail service. However, again like the investigator,  I am 
not persuaded that M&S  came to the wrong conclusion when considering his claim under 
section 75 of the Act. Ill explain  why.
Before I go onto consider  the circumstances leading to this claim, it might  be helpful if I set 
out some  of the legal  and regulatory landscape. 
This service is not a court  of law and does not have the same powers as a court.  M&S is, in 
the circumstances of this case, potentially liable for any breach of contract  by GTR.  
Technically, only a court can determine  this liability. But this service considers  complaints 
about the regulated activity of exercising, or having  the right to exercise, the lenders  rights  
and duties under a regulated credit  agreement. One such  duty is for lenders to investigate 
and respond to claims under s.75 of the Act. And, in considering a complaint about such  an 
event, this service would take into account the outcome it considers a court would likely 
reach were such a claim pursued in that arena.  
Mr R has also made  references to other legislation, including  the Unfair  Contract  Terms Act 
1977. As the investigator has pointed out, in the circumstances, this service  would not be 
able to directly apply the requirements of this Act onto M&S. There is an argument  though  
that if a court  were to find a term in the rail service  contract to be unfair, GTR may not be 
able to rely on it. And if GTR could not rely on it, neither could M&S in a like-claim. 
However, as other parts of the Act do relate  to fairness, I dont think it is necessary to 
consider the application  of other legislation in this area. And I have borne in mind Mr Rs 
arguments over the fairness of the terms of the contract with GTR. 
Largely speaking, it is not disputed that GTR  didnt provide customers with the level of 
service they could reasonably expect. Mr R has made lots of reference to the general  
situation; though I should  point out his claim would be based on whether his own contract 
with GTR  was breached.  That said, I have little doubt Mr R himself  did experience repeated  
delays, cancellations  and crowded trains (amongst other things).  
What the expected standard was is also open  to some debate though.  The terms of the 
contract dont specify the exact service to be provided. It is also a point of law that even 
published departure/arrival times  wont amount to a warranty that the times will be strictly  
adhered to. And GTRs Charter indicates  there  is a level of delay that can be expected.  
However, I can understand why Mr R thinks GTR failed to deliver  the rail service  with 
reasonable care and skill. And as such that the relevant (implied)  term of the contract  was 
breached. So, Ive considered what rights a passenger such  as Mr R would have under the 
contract in the event  of delays, cancellation  and poor service.
The contract included  the, above  mentioned,  provisions setting out what  was required of 
GTR in the event of delays, etc. And GTR paid Mr R in line with these terms where  he made  
a claim.  He was also, as noted above,  provided with a one-off compensation payment. 
I note that Mr R has referred to not claiming  on all occasions where he might  have. But, 
given he was aware of the ability to claim, his failure to do so is not something I can hold 
against GTR, or M&S. 
Ref: DRN62800614As such Im satisfied that GTR has paid, or wouldve paid,  Mr R the compensation he was 
entitled to under the contract as a result  of the alleged failure  to deliver the service  expected.
The remaining  issue  is whether  the limitation  on liability contained in Condition 42(c)  and the 
compensation levels set by the Charter were unfair or created an unfair relationship between 
Mr R and M&S. Given the nature of rail service  and the likelihood  that not all trains  will run 
on time, I dont though  consider it is unreasonable to include a clause  limiting  liability for 
delay, etc. Such a term is an accepted industry-wide provision.  Additionally,  the 
compensation offered by GTR  under  the scheme  was not only higher than the minimum 
required by the NRCoC,  but also payable irrespective of the cause of delay. Overall, this 
does not appear  an unreasonable or unfair  term.
So, although  it seems  GTR didnt provide the level of service it agreed  to, it has paid (or 
offered to pay) Mr R the compensation hes entitled to under the contract. There isnt any 
further contractual entitlement  to claim. And, as such, I also dont consider inappropriately 
declined Mr Rs claim against  it under s.75 of the Act.
I have also seen nothing  to persuade me that M&S inappropriately handled  the claim Mr R 
made. It should be noted that Mr R was bringing  his claim against M&S. In investigating this 
claim, M&S found  it necessary to discuss the circumstances  with GTR.  But it was not a 
requirement on the bank that it act as Mr Rs advocate or try to negotiate a settlement for 
him from GTR. Had the claim been  successful, M&S would  have paid Mr R any settlement 
directly. Whether it would then have  sought to recover this from GTR is a separate matter.
Similarly, whilst I recognise  the efforts Mr R has gone to in researching and presenting his 
argument, both to M&S and to this service,  the bank  only has to satisfy itself that the claim 
should not be met. The evidence I have seen shows that M&S did so appropriately. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R. But I consider  M&S fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with and declining his claim under the Act. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280061