K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that because of poor advice from Intrinsic  Mortgage Planning  Ltd 
they ended  up paying an early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage.
background 
Mr and Mrs S wished  to move house. They had a mortgage with a bank Ill call the bank.  
That mortgage was subject to an ERC.
Mr and Mrs S approached Intrinsic for advice. The Intrinsic agent approached the bank to 
port the mortgage but thought this wasnt possible in the way Mr and Mrs S wanted. She did, 
however, think she had agreed a new product could be entered  into and no ERC would be 
payable. Intrinsic recommended  the new product with the bank and said one of the 
advantages of staying with the bank was Mr and Mrs S would avoid having to pay an ERC. 
The bank says when  it spoke to Intrinsic on 11 May it told it that Mr and Mrs S should call its 
post completions team.
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor  was sent a redemption statement which  included  an ERC. 
Mr and Mrs S say the solicitor says this was checked with the bank and the bank told it that 
no ERC was payable. But this wasnt confirmed in writing.
Shortly after completing the purchase  Mr and Mrs S were chased for the ERC which they 
reluctantly paid.
After completion Intrinsic did manage  to agree in principle with the bank that there could be 
an amendment so that Mr and Mrs S could  port their old product and the remainder of their 
borrowing would be on a top up product. This would have meant  that the ERC didnt need to 
be paid. Mr and Mrs S wouldnt agree to this. The bank has confirmed  it is now too late to 
switch products.
Mr and Mrs S entered into a 28 year repayment mortgage at a fixed rate of 1.19% until 
2 August 2019.  Had they ported their mortgage  and avoided paying the ERC the dates for 
when the fixed  rate on the two products ended would have been different and this, 
Mr and Mrs S have  told this service, wouldnt be acceptable to them.
The adjudicator issued three  views.  In the first he said that as the bank had offered to put 
Mr and Mrs S into the position they would have been in if they had ported he couldnt 
recommend Intrinsic should  pay the ERC. He did, however, recommend £500 be paid to 
Mr and Mrs S for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with this view. They pointed  out all the errors that Intrinsic had 
made and, in particular,  that it hadnt passed on the message  from the bank that they 
needed to call it.
The adjudicator issued a second  view. He felt that Intrinsic had made  errors  and should pay 
half of the ERC to Mr and Mrs S plus the £500 previously recommended  for the trouble and 
upset caused.  He didnt recommend all the ERC be paid as Mr and Mrs S hadnt accepted 
the offer from the bank to restructure the borrowing  and get the ERC back  that way. 
Ref: DRN68872852Intrinsic didnt agree with the second  view. It said its adviser acted in good faith. It said its 
adviser was told by the bank that the mortgage  couldnt be set-up in the way Mr and Mrs S 
wanted. And the bank told Mr and Mrs S directly  they would need  to phone it to discuss the 
ERC. It also said the solicitor didnt  tell the adviser that the ERC  was on the redemption  
statement.
Mr and Mrs S insisted  that the bank wrote to them  and said quite clearly that nothing  could  
be done after the event. Once  the error from Intrinsic had come to light they say they 
decided to deal directly with the bank. They do not agree there were other options and think  
in any event it is of no relevance, as they proceeded on the purchase based  on the 
mortgage offer which they had and the fact that they were  told by Intrinsic that by staying 
with the bank, the ERC would not be payable.
The investigator issued  a third view. He felt that there had been a number of errors made by 
different parties.  But he thought that if Intrinsic had told Mr and Mrs S to phone the bank then 
Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have  had to pay the ERC.  He therefore  recommended the ERC 
should be refunded, less an allowance  for the lower interest rate on the mortgage.  
Intrinsic didnt accept the third view. It maintained the bank declined to port the original 
mortgage and didnt offer any alternative. It says Mr and Mrs S wanted to borrow as much as 
possible and asked  for a longer term and on a repayment basis. It also says they were 
happy to pay an ERC  if they needed  to  they wanted the mortgage to be affordable and 
wanted the maximum mortgage they could get based on their requirements. It says the bank 
provided incorrect information. And the solicitors told the adviser that they had spoken to the 
bank on behalf  of Mr and Mrs S and no ERC  was payable. It reminded the adjudicator that 
its adviser had, after completion, agreed  in principle to a restructuring with the bank which  
would mean  no ERC would be payable. Finally it believes  if the bank hadnt told the solicitors 
that there  was no ERC payable then the sale wouldnt have completed and so no ERC 
would have been paid.
my provisional decision
I thought Mr and Mrs S wanted something  that wasnt ever available. They wanted to avoid  
paying an ERC and to have their entire mortgage  on the same rate. I thought  it was very 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs S didnt find out that what they wanted couldnt  be achieved  until 
after they bought their new house. I could imagine this would have been highly stressful and 
very upsetting.
I noted Mr and Mrs S hadnt been consistent  about  what they would have done if they had 
known what they wanted couldnt  be achieved at the outset. In their first letter to this service  
they said I should have been  advised to telephone [the bank] to discuss  the ERC before 
deciding on whether to take a mortgage with [the bank] or to move  to another provider at a 
better rate. This suggested to me that if they had known they had to pay an ERC they would 
have gone ahead with the purchase but might have moved to another lender. At other  times 
they had said they wouldnt have purchased the house. 
On balance I thought it was most likely that they would have gone  ahead with their house 
purchase. Mr and Mrs S had made  it very clear that they didnt want a mortgage with two 
accounts on fixed rates which came  to an end at different times. That being the case  I 
thought they would have  chosen to pay the ERC to avoid this.
Ref: DRN68872853Given that I thought  Mr and Mrs S would have chosen to pay the ERC I thought they would 
have looked to shop around  and not felt tied to their existing bank. But as it wasnt  
straightforward for them to get a mortgage  and the bank was offering a low rate I thought  it 
was most likely they would have  stayed with the bank.
So given the above what I needed  to consider was what part Intrinsic played in 
Mr and Mrs Ss stress and upset at having to pay an ERC at little notice after they had 
bought their new house.
Intrinsic recommended a mortgage product to Mr and Mrs S which it said would result  in 
them paying  no ERC on their existing mortgage.  This turned out to be wrong. I looked at the 
circumstances which led the Intrinsic adviser  to believe no ERC would be payable  in the first 
place. Having done I believed she honestly thought  that no ERC would be payable. And that 
it was most likely that this was a reasonable belief based on what  the bank had said to her.
I thought it would have been  helpful if the Intrinsic adviser had got the bank to confirm  the 
ERC would not be payable  in writing. Had she done so I thought the fact that the ERC 
needed to be paid would have come  to light earlier.
I also noted there was no evidence  the adviser told Mr and Mrs S to phone  the bank  
following the call on 11 May. I thought  it was likely  that the bank did ask for Mr and Mrs S to 
call it but it wasnt clear  to me that the call was to be about the ERC. It might  instead have 
been to discuss  the fact that they wanted to keep  part of the mortgage on an interest only 
basis but over an extended term, the repayment vehicle for this part of the mortgage and 
whether there was an alternative that might be available. If this call had happened  I thought  
it was possible that the requirement to pay the ERC  might have come to light but I couldnt 
say that it would with any certainty.  However  I thought the doubt had caused Mr and Mrs S 
upset.
Taken together I thought  the adviser could have done more  for Mr and Mrs S. I thought it 
was fair for compensation of £500  to be paid.
responses to my provisional  decision
Intrinsic has agreed to my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs S havent. They say they went to a professional, regulated financial advisor  who 
failed to pass on a crucial piece of information  to them  which denied them the ability  to make 
an informed decision with all the facts in front of them. The Intrinsic  agents negligence 
(irrespective of whether  it was wilful or an honest  mistake) resulted in them having to pay the 
ERC, which they had been assured on numerous  occasions that they wouldn't have to pay. 
They therefore see only reimbursement of this in full to be the only fair outcome. 
Ref: DRN68872854They also raised  the following specific points:
It has been suggested that the Intrinsic agent  did not think that it was possible to port 
the mortgage and avoid the ERC yet her advice to us was the opposite. And they 
relied upon her advice  that the product  she recommended would avoid the payment 
of the ERC and based upon  this representation they preceded with the purchase of 
the banks mortgage  product.
It has been suggested that after entering into the mortgage  product that an 
amendment could  have been  made to allow their original mortgage  product to be 
ported and that this would have negated  the need to pay the ERC. This was not an 
option communicated to them clearly, nor from what  they can gather one that would 
have matched the terms already represented  to them.
They do not believe that the Intrinsic  agent has treated  them fairly as customers.  She 
has admitted failing to pass on key information  such as the details of the banks post 
completion team following a telephone  discussion on the 11 May 2017.  Multiple  
failings have occurred  in this case but as the customer they have been left to deal 
with the repercussions.
The Intrinsic agent has alternatively suggested  that she has "acted in good faith"  and 
maintained that she was told that the bank could not set up the mortgage  to avoid the 
ERC. These views  contradict each other. Was the Intrinsic agent aware that the 
representations made  by bank about  the ERC  could not be correct  yet "in good  faith" 
failed to perform her role with due diligence and did not flag this up with either them  
or the bank.  Alternatively was she well aware that the bank could not port the existing 
mortgage yet "innocently" failed to pass on critical information and then benefited 
from the misrepresentation  that resulted from her silence.
They believe as the mortgage was misrepresented to them the correct remedy is 
damages and that as a result of the misrepresentation they have lost the opportunity  
to seek the most favourable market terms available at the time and it is not 
unreasonable for them  to seek compensation for this loss of opportunity.
They believe it was an integral part of the Intrinsic  agents role that she confirm  with 
the bank the position regarding the ERC and to not do so in the circumstances was 
negligent.
They think if the message to call the bank had been passed on they would have  
discovered the position regarding the ERC.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As was the case in my provisional decision  I want to be clear that this is a decision  only 
about whether  Intrinsic  has made  an error and, if it has, what  should be done  to compensate 
Mr and Mrs S for that error.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling.  I can see they feel very badly let down. But 
nothing they have said has persuaded me to change the outcome of my provisional decision.
I think the Intrinsic agent thought that she had agreed with the bank that Mr and Mrs S could 
enter into a new mortgage product  without  porting  the old one  and that even though  
there was to be no porting of the old mortgage  the bank wouldnt require the ERC to be paid. 
I think this was a reasonable belief based on the conversation she had with the bank. Banks 
are entitled  to waive fees if they want and so it wasnt contradictory for the agent  to believe 
the mortgage wasnt going to be ported but still no ERC would be payable.
Ref: DRN68872855I think if the agent had confirmed  her understanding in writing  the truth  that the bank would 
require the ERC to be paid  would have come  out earlier.  But I dont think the Intrinsic 
agent was negligent not to confirm this in writing.
I also think it is possible if the Intrinsic  agent  had passed on the message for Mr and Mrs S 
to call the bank  this might have resulted  in the truth coming out earlier  and allowed them  
as they say  to make an informed decision. But Im not sure this would have happened. 
After all we know the discussion between the bank  and Mr and Mrs Ss solicitors  about the 
ERC wasnt enough for the truth to come  out before completion. And as I said in my 
provisional decision it isnt clear to me that the conversation requested  by the bank was to 
be about the ERC.
I do think Mr and Mrs S are entitled to feel disappointed that the Intrinsic agent didnt pass  
on the message.  And because I think the message should have been passed on I think  
Intrinsic should pay them  £500.
Mr and Mrs S feel the only fair compensation  is for them to be paid the amount  they had to 
pay for the ERC. I dont think this fairly represents the amount of distress caused  by Intrinsic 
so I wont be making  an award  of this size.
It isnt strictly  relevant  to my decision to explain our approach when a consumer is given 
incorrect information and we find the business  is responsible for the fact that the information 
was incorrect. It isnt strictly relevant because here as I havent found Intrinsic was 
responsible for the information being incorrect. Here I find, although  the information was 
incorrect, this wasnt Intrinsics  fault.  But it may help Mr and Mrs S to understand that where 
we do find the business to be at fault for the incorrect information we would approach this by 
looking at what would  have happened if the consumer  had been given the correct  
information. Here  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision  - I think  Mr and Mrs S 
would have gone ahead with the product they have. The compensation we would have 
looked to award  would have been  for the distress  and inconvenience they suffered when 
they found out post-completion that they needed to pay the ERC.  We would  not look to put 
Mr and Mrs S in the position  they would have  been  in if the incorrect  information and been  
correct. So we wouldnt have looked  to award  them a reimbursement  of the ERC. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning  Ltd to pay
Mr and Mrs S £500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6887285