K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
I should say here that Mr and Mrs P took out two PPI policies  with their mortgage - one in 
2000, when they first took out the mortgage, and a second (which seems to have replaced 
the first) in 2007. Our adjudicator upheld  the part of the complaint relating to the 2007 policy, 
and BoS accepted that view and offered compensation calculated in line with our approach. 
This was some  while ago and I understand that the compensation has been paid to Mr and 
Mrs P - however if this has not yet been done, BoS should issue  the payment  to Mr and Mrs 
P without  further  delay.  
As BoS accepted the adjudicators view with regard to the 2007  policy, I do not need  to 
consider the sale of that policy any further in this decision. Therefore I will consider only the 
alleged mis-sale of the initial  PPI policy that Mr and Mrs P took out in 2000. Our adjudicator 
did not uphold  the complaint about this policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with this part of the adjudicators opinion  it didnt  
raise any new or additional  points  but repeated the same complaint points and arguments  it 
had previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the 2000 policy, and Ive 
summarised my reasons for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because BoS sent in a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  
Ref: DRN62263652application, and I can see that they signed   separately from their signatures  for the 
mortgage itself  to say that they wanted  PPI. I think they couldve left this section of the 
form blank if they didnt want the cover. BoS also provided a copy  of a separate  
application form that Mr and Mrs P completed. And theres nothing on any of the 
documents to say that PPI was compulsory. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. The PPI covered Mr P (it looks as though Mrs P wasnt eligible for the cover). And 
the evidence about Mr Ps circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. For example Mr P was eligible for the cover  
and although he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, he and Mrs P had no 
savings to fall back on and they still seem  to have had a need for the cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ps employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr P says he had a medical condition when the 
PPI was taken out, I dont  think  it was wrong for BoS to have recommended  it. I say this 
because the PPI policy did not exclude  claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr P as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what he and Mrs P reasonably thought  they were buying  from the 
information they were  given. It also looks  like it was affordable   so it seems like it would  
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  Mr and 
Mrs P would have declined the cover  had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in the light of Mr Ps circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. 
So I think Mr and Mrs P would  have  still thought  they had some  good reasons to take the 
policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have  still taken out PPI in 2000. I think  the policy 
couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time.  I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would  have  taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should  have  disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN62263653reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the policy  they took out in 2000  
so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 September 2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6226365