K821x#15complaint
Ms K says Active Securities Limited  (ASL) trading as 247 Moneybox lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Ms K had three loans with ASL.  Ive set out some of the information  ASL provided  about the 
loans in the table below.
Loan  no. Amount Start date End date
1 £80 03/06/2018 28/06/2018
2 £150 23/08/2018 27/09/2018
3 £200 08/10/2018 29/11/2018
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He didnt think ASL 
shouldve provided  any of the loans  to Ms K. ASL didnt agree  it said Ms K didnt have any 
defaults within the 12 months  before  loan 1 and that there was a two month gap between 
loans 1 and 2  so it didnt  think this was a case of repeated lending.  As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
ASL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
ASL obtained information from Ms K, which included  asking her about her income  and 
expenditure. It used  this to calculate what it called  Ms Ks free cash flow  essentially 
monthly disposable income. Ive summarised  some  of what Ms K said below.
Loan  no. Declared income Declared credit 
commitmentsFree cash  
flow
1 £2,700 £350 £525
2 £3,030 £250 £755
3 £3,030 £300 £605
I think the information ASL obtained was proportionate in the circumstances of these three 
loans, which  were quite  small  in the context of Ms Ks declared income and expenditure.
However, ASL wasnt simply required to obtain  information. It also needed to consider and 
interrogate that information  and ask further questions where appropriate.
ASL knew from its credit checks for loan 1 that Ms K:
Ref: DRN67009912Had total debts  of £21,368   of which the majority  related  to loans
Had 24 active accounts, seven  of which were opened within  the last six months
Had two active county  court judgements
Given the number  of active accounts  Ms K had and the strong  implication that shed opened 
around seven short-term loan accounts  in the six months before  asking  for loan 1 I think ASL 
had good reason to question the credit commitment figures Ms K provided. I dont think it 
acted proportionately by simply accepting the figures in the table above.
In the circumstances, I think ASL needed to look more closely at Ms Ks credit commitments  
 for example by asking her a specific question about her short-term debt, or by looking in 
more detail at a credit report.
Having looked  at Ms Ks credit history  myself,  I can see that at the time she applied for 
loan 1 she had multiple credit  commitments  including the seven  (likely) high-cost credit  
commitments ASL identified from its credit check.  This included a revolving  credit  facility, two 
home credit loans and four payday  loans. The total sum of the monthly repayments was 
around double  what Ms K actually declared.  Clearly,  Ms K shouldve provided more  
comprehensive information about  her outgoings.  But ASL had enough  information  to realise 
it wasnt reasonable to place  as much weight as it did on what Ms K said.
Given the amount  of payday, home credit and other alternative credit Ms K was accessing  in 
the months before loan 1, I think  ASL ought  to have realised that she was having problems 
manging her money and that the loan she wanted  was unlikely to be sustainably  affordable.  
It was likely shed have  to borrow again  to repay it  and so it wasnt  responsible  to lend.
Ive not seen that there was a significant  change in Ms Ks circumstances when she applied 
for loans  2 and 3. So although I understand ASLs point about  this not being a case  of repeat 
lending, there are other reasons   as described above  why it shouldnt  have  lent.
Im therefore  upholding the complaint  about loans 1 to 3.
putting things right
ASL should refund the interest and charges Ms K paid on all of her loans, adding to the 
refund 8% simple interest per year from when she paid the interest and charges until the 
date of settlement. It should also remove  any adverse information it recorded about  the 
loans from Ms Ks credit history.
HM Revenue & Customs requires  ASL to take off tax from this interest. ASL must give Ms K a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Ks complaint.  Active Securities Limited must put 
things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Ref: DRN67009913Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6700991