K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (formerly Leeds Permanent  Building 
Society and Halifax) (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) when they took out a mortgage  in 1990.
 
background
This policy covered  both Mr and Mrs S if they lost their jobs,  or couldnt work  because of an 
accident or if they were sick. It cost around £16 and would have covered them  for £400  split 
equally between them 50/50  if they made a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this matter should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with this 
view. They  said they were never involved  with BoS,  everything was done through Leeds and 
asked they asked for their complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The first thing to explain  is that BoS has taken over responsibility for these sales from both 
Leeds and Halifax  so I can understand why Mr and Mrs S have told me they never  dealt with 
BoS about PPI and this might have caused some confusion. I have referred to BoS 
throughout this decision.
Ive next considered whether Mr and Mrs S were given a fair choice about buying the policy.  
They have told us it was attached without  their knowledge. Understandably not all the 
evidence from the time is available.  This sale happened around 29 years  ago and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. Mr and Mrs S also cant  provide me 
with much information or paperwork. So where  the evidence is incomplete, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is, whats more likely  to have happened 
taking account  the evidence that is available, what both parties have  told me and what we 
know about these  types of sales at the time as well as the wider  circumstances.
BoS has provided some screenshots  from its internal records and I can see that a number of 
questions were likely asked at the time about  both Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  about  such  
matters as their jobs and their health. I can understand why they cant remember  this now 
but I think its more likely they spoke to a representative and chose to cover both in equal 
shares. I also think the PPI would  have appeared on a statement  so they could have  
questioned it if they werent  sure. Overall, taking everything into account I think its more 
likely Mr and Mrs S chose  the cover knowing they could decline it if they didnt want it.
Mr and Mrs S understandably cant remember how the policy was sold.  BoS says it will treat 
this as an advised sale. I will look at this sale as if it were recommended  as this put more  
responsibility on BoS for how it sold the policy and meant that it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was suitable  for them. It also had to make sure it gave  Mr and Mrs S 
Ref: DRN68747052enough clear information  so they could decide  for themselves whether or not to take out the 
cover.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and the policy terms and conditions I think  this 
was a suitable policy.
I say this as I think both Mr and Mrs S were  eligible for the cover. And looking at their 
circumstances  theyve  said they didnt have  any medical conditions  which  they knew about 
or unusual  employment circumstances. So I dont  think  either  would likely have been  
affected by any of the main limitations,  conditions  or exclusions which  might  have made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
I note Mr and Mrs S have told us that they both would have been entitled  to statutory sick 
pay from their employer.  If they couldnt  work  for a prolonged  period  this policy  would have 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim.  They also told us they had no savings. This policy  
covered a mortgage. The consequences of being unable  to repay their mortgage 
repayments were serious and this policy would have given them  peace  of mind that their 
mortgage repayments could have been  repaid if either couldnt  work or lost their job at would  
likely have been a difficult time financially. So I think this policy  was suitable.
Theres nothing which makes me think the policy  was unaffordable for them  and it seems the 
policy offered a reasonable benefit for its cost.
Its possible not all the information BoS gave to Mr and Mrs S was as clear as it could have  
been. But overall I think Mr and Mrs S likely chose the cover  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And for much  the same reasons Ive set out about why I think  the PPI was 
suitable for them, I still think they would have taken out the cover  even with better or clearer  
information. 
Ive thought about all theyve told me including what Mr and Mrs S have said about not being 
told they could  source  the policy cheaper  elsewhere.  But BoS werent required to tell them 
about other policies.  Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I hope the reasons Ive 
explained set out why I dont think they lost out as  a  result  of anything BoS did wrong  and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6874705