K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) has declined his claim under his travel insurance  policy  for the 
costs of being rescued when skiing.
background
Mr R and his daughter were on a skiing holiday,  and skiing off piste, when they got lost. 
They had to spend a night  stranded in the mountains. Fortunately  they were  found the next 
day by a search and rescue team using a helicopter.  Mr R then received an invoice for 
€5,980 for the search and rescue operation. 
As Mr Rs travel  insurance policy covered him for winter sports  including  off piste skiing,  he 
submitted a claim to Mapfre  for the cost of his rescue. He believes that cover for such an 
event is fundamental  to off piste skiing cover.
Mapfre declined Mr Rs claim,  explaining  to him that even though  he had winter sports cover,  
this didnt include cover  for any search and rescue  costs.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Mapfres decision and referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  consider that Mapfre had done  anything wrong as it had acted in line with 
the terms of Mr Rs policy.
Mr R doesnt agree with our investigators view. He says that it was his reasonable 
expectation of winter sports cover that it would cover rescue costs. He believes that some 
reference to rescue  not being  included shouldve  been made clear in the winter sports  
section of the policy. He says that if hed known it wasnt  covered, hed have taken out 
insurance elsewhere. Hes asked that his complaint be considered again by an ombudsman, 
so the matters been referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Ive considered Mr Rs policy. Winter  sports cover  is a supplement  to the other risks covered 
by the policy.  The winter sports section states  that it covers claims for winter sports 
equipment, ski hire, ski pack,  piste closure and delays to journeys caused by avalanche. It 
doesnt refer to claims for injuries whilst skiing as these are covered under Section A of the 
policy. It doesnt say that search and rescue costs are covered.
However Mr Rs policy  expressly  states,  under the General Exclusions section:
We will not cover the following:
.
26. Any search and rescue  costs
So I think its clear that search and rescue  costs, whether incurred in a winter  sports  context 
or any other  context, are excluded. 
Ref: DRN61968082Mr R makes the point that the exclusion of search and rescue costs isnt in the winter sports  
section. Mapfre has explained  that winter sports cover is an extension  of the other  covers  
provided by the policy, so the exclusion of search and rescue costs is equally applicable in 
other settings. As it isnt an exclusion that applies only in a winter sports context,  I think its 
reasonable to include  it in the General exclusions section of the policy.
Mr R also maintains that winter sports policies should all contain a certain minimum set of 
features which  should include rescue  cover. But its up to an insurer what risks its prepared 
to cover,  and some  insurers  will offer more extensive cover than others, and charge  
premiums accordingly. If an insured is concerned  about having cover  for a particular risk, 
they should look carefully at what the policy includes and what  it excludes, and if in doubt,  
seek confirmation from the insurer, rather than relying upon an expectation.
Whilst I understand Mr Rs position, I dont  consider  it reasonable for an insurer  to be 
required to settle  a claim for a risk that not only isnt stated to be covered by a policy, but is 
specifically excluded, because the policyholder expected the risk to be covered.
So my conclusion is that Mapfre has not acted  unreasonably in declining to settle Mr Rs 
claim because  the risk hes claiming for is specifically excluded  by the policy.  And I dont 
think that Mapfre has acted unreasonably  in excluding search and rescue  costs  from its 
policy. It can choose the risks that its prepared to cover for the premium it charges, 
regardless of an insureds  expectations.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6196808