K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L bought  the policy  in connection with a credit  card that she took out some time between
1995 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether  the PPI was added  to the account at the
same time as Mrs L applied  for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mrs L applied for her card some time between  1995 and 2000  and its possible  that 
she bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know  for sure if this is the case. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its 
most likely Mrs L bought the PPI at the same time as applying for her credit card.
I think Lloyds made  Mrs L aware the PPI was optional and she chose to
take it. I say this because  the credit card application form that Mrs L completed 
(where I think its likely she bought  the PPI at the same time) included a box that Mrs 
L ticked to show that she wanted  the cover. So Mrs L had to actively select the PPI. 
As such,  I think she wouldve realised she had a choice  about whether or not to buy 
the cover.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mrs L, but it doesnt  look as 
if it was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
Mrs L says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer  if she couldnt work  due to 
sickness or accident. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ls employer 
benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she couldnt work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs L would have  been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ref: DRN61145622my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6114562