K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the valuation Tesco Underwriting Limited  placed  on her car under 
her motor insurance policy after it was declared  a total loss. She wants it to pay her the 
amount she bought the car for.
background
Mrs Hs car was declared a total loss following a fire just six days after shed bought  it. Tesco 
offered her £9,830 for the cars pre-loss market value. But Mrs H said shed paid £10,700 for 
it and thought Tesco should  pay her this amount.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought the price 
Mrs H had paid for the car was a better  indicator of its market  value than the trade guides we 
usually rely on. So she thought Tesco should  pay Mrs H £10,700 less her policy  excess  in 
settlement of her claim.
Tesco replied that it had made a deduction from the valuations for the cars significant 
mileage. It said Mrs H had over-paid for the car.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
The valuations given  by the four market guides we use for cars of the same make,  model, 
condition, options  and mileage as Miss Hs are: £9,500, £10,008, £9,830  and £9,212. Our 
approach is that an insurers  settlement offer should  be within  the range of these guide  
valuations. I can see that Tesco  offered  Mrs H £9,830. I can see that this takes into account  
the cars  higher than average mileage. And I would normally say that that was a fair and 
reasonable offer as it was made according to our approach.
But, in the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I dont think that would be fair. This is 
because Mrs H had bought her car just six days before the fire and I think  consideration 
should be given  to what she then paid for it. 
Tesco said Mrs H had bought a car priced  as if it had average mileage. Tesco said it had 
deducted £2,120 for the cars higher mileage. This would mean  that its value without this 
deduction would be between £11,620  and £12,128. The price Mrs H paid was £10,700. So I 
cant see that she paid for the car as if it had average mileage. 
Ref: DRN69646492Mrs Hs policy provides,  in the case of total loss, for the cars market  value, the cost of 
replacing the car immediately before its loss. The market guides  provide likely selling prices. 
But Mrs H has provided evidence of the actual market value of her car just six days before 
its loss. And I think thats a better  indication of its market value in these particular 
circumstances. And so I think Tescos offer wasnt reasonable. I think it would be reasonable 
for Tesco to pay Mrs H what  she paid for the car in settlement of her claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco  Underwriting Limited to pay 
Mrs H £10,700, less her policy excess,  in settlement  of her claim following  the total loss of 
her car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6964649