K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Miss M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 1991. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Ms case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint  - and Ill explain why.
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Miss M during  a meeting in May 1991. 
Halifax has been able to give us a copy of the mortgage application  form and the MPPI 
application.
Miss M has said the MPPI  policy was added to her mortgage without her knowledge. Halifax 
has told us Miss M would have been made  aware  of the policy  and that it was optional.
In the mortgage  application form there  is a section headed, Mortgage Payments Protector 
which was the name  for the Halifax MPPI policy. This section gave  brief details of the policy  
and added, If you wish to join the scheme  enter the amount of monthly benefit you require.  
Beside this statement the figure £400 has been  written.
Miss M also completed a separate MPPI  application form. The form contained  a number of 
questions to establish Miss Ms eligibility  for the policy. It also showed  the monthly premium 
of £16 and the monthly benefit required of £400.  I can see Miss M has signed and dated the 
application.
I think it is likely the policy insurer would have  sent Miss M some documents  such as the 
policy schedule and terms and conditions. And Halifax has sent us a copy  of a letter  sent to 
Miss M in September 1992  about the MPPI  annual renewal.  It looks  like Miss M has returned 
this letter  after writing  on it that she had made other  arrangements.  The policy was cancelled 
in November 1992.
Having looked  at the paperwork  available, I think its most likely  Miss M was made  aware the 
MPPI was optional and that she chose to take it out. Although  after 28 years  I can 
understand why she might not recall this.
Halifax says its representative  wouldve recommended the MPPI to Miss M. And as the sale 
took place during a meeting I think its likely  they did. This means Halifax had a duty to take 
Ref: DRN68077992reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was right for Miss M. And based on what  Miss M 
has told us about  her circumstances at the time she bought the cover I think  it was right for 
her. I say this for the following  reasons:
Miss M was employed and wouldve been  eligible for the cover  the policy gave her.
Miss M wouldve received full sick pay from her employer for around six months if 
she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. That would then reduce to half pay 
for a further six months. But if Miss M made  a successful claim on this policy  it 
couldve paid the monthly  benefit  for up to 24 months  much  longer than her 
employer would pay her full sick pay. So I think Miss M wouldve found  the benefit  
useful if she couldnt  work, particularly if she was unable to work  for a prolonged 
period of time.
If Miss M had lost her job the policy could have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 
12 months. Although Miss M may have received some redundancy pay if this had 
happened the benefit from the policy would mean she could use that redundancy pay 
for other living  costs.
Miss M was taking out a new mortgage in her sole name. The mortgage  was secured 
on her home. So, considering  the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on 
the mortgage, I think this policy couldve been  useful  to Miss M if things  went  wrong.
Miss M has told us she had savings she could  rely on. Ive thought about this but the 
fact Miss M chose  to keep her savings available rather than to take a smaller 
mortgage suggests she was keen to keep her savings intact. The MPPI would mean 
she wouldnt have to use her investments to pay the mortgage  if she couldnt work.  
The policy would also mean Miss M wouldnt need to rely on family to help her pay 
the mortgage.
And it doesnt  look like Miss M wouldve been caught by any of the other main 
exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made  it difficult  to 
make a successful  claim.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable or that the benefit was 
insufficient to meet  her monthly mortgage  repayments.
After so many years  I cant know how much  information  Miss M was given  about  the policy 
during the meeting. So it is possible she couldve been given clearer or more thorough 
information. Ive thought  about whether this wouldve made a difference  and caused  Miss M 
to act differently  and decline  the policy. But from what Ive seen Miss M was interested in this 
type of cover, the policy seems  to have been right for her and it looks  like it was affordable.  
So taking everything into account I dont think Miss M wouldve  turned  down  the policy if 
shed been given any clearer information  about  it.
In summary  I think the policy was most  likely presented as being optional.  I think  it was a 
suitable recommendation and even if Halifax had given Miss M the clear information it 
should have, I still think Miss M wouldve bought it.
my final decision
Ref: DRN68077993For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. And I make no award  
against Bank of Scotland Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807799