K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs A applied  to take out a PPI policy to protect the repayments on the mortgage 
they were arranging in 1997. They paid a monthly  premium for the PPI which covered them  
if either of them couldnt  work due to disability  or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs As case. 
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive looked into whether  Mr and Mrs A were given a choice about buying  PPI and agreed to 
go ahead  with it. Ive seen a copy of their signed  mortgage application  form. The form 
included a section  on PPI and gave them the option to say what  type of cover, if any, they 
wanted. It seems they ticked for Illness, Injury  & Unemployment  cover. Details of the 
monthly benefit amount, and how that would be split between Mr and Mrs A, were also 
handwritten on the form.
I cant say for sure what  Mr and Mrs A might have been told at their meeting but I think B&B 
made them aware the PPI was separate to the mortgage and that they had a choice about 
buying it. And it seems  they chose to take it out. 
From the information Ive seen I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so 
it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it still should have given them  enough 
information to make up their own minds  about whether it was right for them.  
I cant say for sure whether B&B did that. But I dont  think any information about the PPI 
would have made a difference  to Mr and Mrs As decision to buy it, based on what Ive seen  
of their circumstances  at the time.  I say that because, for example:
Mr and Mrs A were  eligible  for the PPI. And, although the PPI had certain restrictions 
and limitations to the cover it provided,  I cant  see that theyd have been affected by 
them at the time of the sale. 
Mr and Mrs A were  entitled to enhanced sick pay from their respective employers. 
But the PPI benefits  would potentially  have paid out for up to 12 months per disability 
claim. It covered them for unemployment too. Mr and Mrs A say they had savings 
they could have used if they were off work. But the PPI benefits would have allowed 
them to retain those provisions or use them to cover their other  living expenses at 
what could have  been a difficult time. So I believe they would have thought  the PPI 
Ref: DRN64916042provided them with useful additional protection  especially given the serious 
consequences of them defaulting on a debt secured against their home. 
Although I cant see that the monthly premium  of around  £10 was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs A during the sale, I dont think it would have put them  off the PPI. And the 
policy was flexible  in that they could have cancelled it at any time if they decided they 
no longer wanted it.
All of which means  B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. 
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&Bs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. B&B should  also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs A any extra  interest they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6491604