K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policies taken out with an initial  2002 and 
then a further advance in 2003. Mr and Mrs E had a joint mortgage but the policy  only 
covered Mr E.
The entire mortgage was redeemed in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es case.
Having thought about everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
I dont know what happened at the time. But I can see that Mr and Mrs E signed a separate  
application form for MPPI to cover Mr E in 2002  and Mr E signed a separate application form 
requesting MPPI cover for him in 2003. So taking everything Ive seen together,  I think its 
likely Lloyds  made Mr and Mrs E aware that the MPPI was optional and that they chose  to 
take it out having an appreciation of what it was they were  agreeing  to.
I think that Lloyds  recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs E. So it had to make sure that it 
was right for them. And based  on what Mr and Mrs E have told me about  their circumstances 
at the time, I dont  think that Lloyds recommendation  was unsuitable.  The information 
provided suggests that Mr E was the major  wage  earner. And the policy wouldve paid out 
100% of the monthly benefit in the event Mr E made a successful claim. So it couldve 
proved useful in the event he had to stop working suddenly  and he needed to make a claim. 
Mr E mayve  been entitled to sick pay from his employer. But I dont agree that this means 
that Mr and Mrs E didnt need the policy, as it wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay 
Mr E wouldve  received at a time when their finances are likely to have been squeezed. The 
MPPI also included unemployment cover. So it wouldve paid out if Mr E was to have lost his 
job too. Ive also thought  about what Mr and Mrs E going on to buy further cover  elsewhere. 
But I dont think this means that these policies were mis-sold.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But the policy wasnt 
that expensive,  in relation to the protection it provided. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs E couldnt  afford the premiums at the time the recommendations were 
made. I think  Mr and Mrs E had a need for this cover too  especially as Mr E was the major 
wage earner. So even  if it Lloyds had explained the cost better, I still think  that Mr and Mrs E 
wouldve bought  it. 
Ref: DRN64580232Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mr and Mrs E everything it shouldve  done about the policy 
and the main things  it didnt cover.  But from what Mr and Mrs E have told us, I dont think    
Mr E wouldve  been  affected  by any of these. It looks like he was eligible for the policy,  was 
in good health and he was working.  So I think that Mr and Mrs E wouldve  still taken  the 
MPPI even  if Lloyds had told them everything it needed to when they took it out.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs E that Ive thought  about everything theyve told us. And Ive 
listened to everything  theyve  said.  But overall  I dont have enough here to be able to say 
that the MPPI was mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6458023