K820x#14complaint
Ms R is unhappy that two incorrect direct debits were set up on her Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) account. She believes  Santander hasnt protected  her account properly. 
background
In October  2018, two direct debits were  incorrectly  set up on Ms Rs account. When  she 
found out about them, Ms R contacted Santander  which refunded  and cancelled  the 
payments. Concerned about why these  direct debits had been  set up, Ms R raised a 
complaint.
Santander said the direct debit  had been  refunded and cancelled, and the charges incurred 
had been waived. It also said it had a free number, meaning Ms R hadnt incurred any call 
costs. Santander  did feel it couldve handled Ms Rs initial  call better. It offered £25 
compensation for this. 
Ms R referred the complaint to our service as she wasnt  happy with Santanders response.  
She said the situation had made  her upset and unwell, and Santander  hadnt  done enough 
to protect  her account. Ms R was unhappy  that shed had to call in twice, and wanted  details  
of the person whod  set up the direct debit.
Our investigator explained that direct debits  are processed through  an automated  system. 
So he didnt think Santander  should  reasonably have known about the problems until Ms R 
reported them. The investigator felt £25 compensation was sufficient to address  any upset 
caused by errors on Santanders part. 
Ms R didnt agree with this, and also reported that her account  had been  blocked. Santander 
said this had been done at her request. Our investigator passed  on instructions to Ms R 
about how to remove the block. He also passed on some information from Santander about 
transferring to a savings  account, which would prevent  any direct debits from being set up in 
future. 
As Ms R is still unhappy, her case has now been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached  and for largely the same reasons.
Its clear the direct  debits  were set up in error and didnt relate to Ms R. Santander  has 
refunded the payments, cancelled them going  forward, and waived the fees incurred. Im 
satisfied this remedies  any financial loss Ms R has suffered  and protects her going  forward.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Ms R has experienced. Its clear she 
found this situation very upsetting. But Im not persuaded that Santander is at fault for the 
direct debits being set up. The system  is automated,  meaning Santander didnt manually 
review the payments. That limits any compensation I award to distress and inconvenience  
caused by Santander once Ms R reported  the errors.
Ref: DRN65313752When Santander reviewed the direct  debit mandates, these  made it clear that Ms R hadnt 
requested the payments. Santander says it shouldve told Ms R that any charges incurred 
would be waived when  she first called. Its offered £25 for its failure  to do so. Im not 
persuaded Santander needs to do more. Looking  at the account records,  it doesnt appear 
that charges were  applied  limiting the impact of the miscommunication.
Ms R is concerned about the security  of her account. But this seems to be because the 
direct debits were set up in the first place.  And I havent found Santander to be at fault for 
this. In addition,  Santander has complied with Ms Rs request  to put a security block  on her 
account. Our investigator has already  passed  on information to Ms R about  how she can 
remove this. Santander  has also put forward the option of Ms R transferring to a savings 
account. No direct debits  can be added to a savings account. And Ms R hasnt made  any 
payments from the account since January 2019. So I agree  with Santander that such  an 
account may help address her concerns  whilst providing the features she needs  but, 
ultimately, this is a choice  that only she can make.  
Ms R is unhappy that Santander hasnt provided details of the person who, on the face of it, 
set up the direct debits.  Id like to reassure her that what Ive seen  convinces  me that the 
direct debits were set up on her account  in error and werent fraudulent.  Im also satisfied  
that Santander has taken sensible measures in response to Ms Rs concerns. And Ms R 
hasnt been left out of pocket. So I dont consider it likely that shes been  left at greater risk 
without the details of this innocent third party, whose legal rights  must also be protected  so 
far as reasonably possible.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied the £25 Santander has offered is sufficient to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience Ms R has suffered due to its errors.  
my final decision
Santander UK Plc has made an offer to pay Ms R £25. My final decision is that Santander 
UK Plc should  pay this  if it hasnt already done so  within  28 days  of receiving notice of 
Ms Rs acceptance of my decision. If the sum isnt paid within that time,  interest  will accrue 
at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less any 
tax properly deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6531375