K821x#15complaint
In summary  Mr L on behalf  of E a limited company, has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
incorrectly closed the companys international euro bank account. This resulted in a loss of 
business and administration  costs being incurred by E.
Mr L also says charges were applied  to the new account that hadnt  been applied before the 
original account  was closed.
background
In 2015 HSBC started a safeguarding process in respect of Es euro bank account. The 
purpose of the review  was to ensure that the details it held about E were  correct.
Over the following months HSBC asked E for more  information so that it could complete its 
review. In October 2016 it wrote to E and said that its accounts would be closed unless the 
information it had requested was provided.  HSBC  had a telephone conversation with Mr L 
later that month, when  the majority of the information appears to have been  provided.
In November 2016 HSBC asked for more information. And in January 2017 it closed the 
euro bank  account.  It said it didnt  think the information it had asked for had been provided 
by E.
Mr L on behalf of E complained to HSBC  about Es bank accounts being  closed.  HSBC  
wrote several letters to Mr L in March  2017. It explained that due to errors on its part, not all 
of the required  information was updated  which resulted in the closure letter being issued 
when it had actually  received all of the information  it needed. 
Mr L asked for £9,000  to compensate E for the disruption caused. HSBC  accepted  it had 
made a mistake.  And it offered a compensation payment of £1,000 and set up a new euro 
account.
Es complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She upheld the complaint. She 
thought E had lost business  as a result of the account being closed and that a great deal of 
time had been  spent  trying to sort out the problems caused by this. She was also satisfied 
that charges of £16.50  had been applied for each transaction on the new account but she 
wasnt sure if the original euro account  had attracted such charges. She thought  it hadnt  
and that HSBC should refund the charges and stop applying them on the new account. The 
investigator went on to say that the loss of business  should be calculated  by a daily average 
for the three  months  invoices prior to the account  being closed in January 2017.  This should 
be in addition to the £1,000 offered by HSBC.
HSBC didnt reply to the investigators assessment, so the case  was passed to me for 
review. At my request Mr L provided  information about how Es business worked and the 
losses incurred by E. Mr L explained that he is not directly employed by E, but his company 
provides administrative  services to it. Mr L is representing the directors  of E in bringing the 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  explaining why I intended to uphold the 
complaint if E provided the information  I said would be needed to substantiate  that it had 
suffered losses, and that the March 2017  invoice had been  paid. I also said that that the 
Ref: DRN61549302transaction charges that had applied since the account was reopened in March 2017 should  
be repaid to E. 
In response Mr L provided statements and other evidence which  he thought showed the 
losses that E had suffered and that the invoices had been paid by E. 
HSBC asked to see copies of the evidence that had been provided  by E. Copies were sent 
to the bank but no response was received from it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr L has provided further information in support of his 
argument that the work has been  carried out on behalf of E; and that payments have been 
made by it to Mr Ls company. He also maintains that E lost business as a result of the euro 
bank account  being closed. He has provided  evidence which  he said proves this.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the information provided by Mr L including the 
information he sent us in response to my provisional decision.
Its not in dispute  that HSBC caused  delays during the safeguarding  process  it carried  out in 
respect of Es euro bank  account and that it incorrectly closed the account. 
Im satisfied from what Mr L has told us, that Es business has been  impacted by the closure  
of its euro bank account. Mr L has explained  how the business works and that it carries out 
certification business  in Europe. Hes also told us that he, through  his company, acts as the 
administrator for E.
I think its plausible given  the nature of Es business  and customer base that significant  
administrative disruption was caused as a result of the euro account being closed. Mr L has 
explained that the majority of the work fell to him to sort out. He has said that trips were  
cancelled and E wasnt able to issue certificates  whilst outstanding invoices werent  paid. 
Mr L has also said that E has lost business  as result of the account  closure.  In summary he 
has referred to Es policy of not issuing certificates without payment of outstanding invoices. 
Hes also said the account closure resulted in E having to issue  certificates  without payment 
as there  was no facility  to receive payment. Hes also said that suppliers had left due to 
payments not being able to be made.  And clients  went elsewhere  and dropped projects as 
they had nowhere  to make payments and couldnt receive  certificates.
Mr L has also provided copies of 3 invoices that were sent to E for the extra administration 
costs involved as a result of the euro bank  account  being closed. These  total some £17,000 
and are dated from March  2017 through to July 2017. Hes also provided a statement from 
his company showing what had been paid and the balance outstanding. But he wasnt  able 
to provide bank  statements from E which showed  the payments that had been made in 
respect of those invoices.  
As Ive set out above Im satisfied that there would have been additional work carried  out by 
Mr L on behalf of E and he would have been entitled to charge E for that work . It seems to 
Ref: DRN61549303me that the March invoice is likely to have been  in respect of the majority of the work carried 
out in the aftermath of the account being  closed.  But Im not persuaded that the two invoices 
issued in July should reasonably be paid by HSBC.  I say this because  they were issued 
approximately four months  after the account was reopened.  And from everything Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that on balance, the invoice issued in March 2017 by Mr Ls company, is likely  
to representative  of the administration  costs E had to pay Mr Ls company for the work done 
by it on Es behalf; in the immediate aftermath  of the euro bank account being closed. 
Mr L on behalf of E has said there were ongoing problems with the operation of the euro 
bank account  until June/July 2017. But I havent seen enough detailed evidence about  what 
the problems were and what  work Mr Ls company had to carry out for E which warranted 
the further invoices being issued. And in relation to those invoices I havent seen enough 
from everything provided by Mr L, to be satisfied that the work carried  out was likely to have 
been directly related  to the account closure,  taking into account the invoices appear to be for 
work carried out several months after the account  was reopened. 
In respect of the invoice payments, Mr L has provided Es bank statements for the period 
March  October 2017. These show a number  of payments made  to Mr L which  are marked  
as bills. None of these refer to specific  invoices.  And Mr L hasnt provided receipted  
invoices or any record  which links these  payments  to a particular invoice. 
So its still not clear  to me that E has actually incurred the costs Mr L has mentioned, as the 
March invoice doesnt appear to have been  paid in full. And as Ive set out above,  the bank 
statements provided by Mr L dont identify the payments made to his business by E, in 
respect of this invoice.
In support of the losses he says E incurred and at the request of the investigator, Mr L 
provided a spreadsheet setting out invoices that had been rendered in the three months prior 
to the account  being  closed. And the investigator thought that an average of the three 
months invoices for the time the account  was closed would represent the losses  suffered by 
E. I dont agree  with the approach proposed by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Im not persuaded that the spreadsheet in itself provides sufficient evidence of any losses 
that E may have suffered as a result  of the account  being closed. Ive not been provided with 
copies of the invoices shown on the spreadsheet. And although  Mr L has said that some  
work couldnt be carried out by E as a result of the euro account being closed, it doesnt 
appear that no work was conducted by E during that time. 
Whilst I accept  payments couldnt be made  into the Euro account during  the time it was 
closed, it seems to me that E took the decision not to take some instructions from some  
existing clients as invoices were outstanding. And whilst invoices may have been 
outstanding, I havent seen sufficient  evidence to conclude that they would necessarily have  
been paid even if the account had been open.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr L has also provided  further  information  on this 
point. In particular  he has supplied a copy of an e-mail chain  with an overseas customer 
which he says shows that the account  was lost as a result of the problems  with the euro 
bank account.  
But Im not persuaded that this was the reason the customer  terminated its business with E. I 
say this because  the e-mail from the customer of 28 December 2017 makes  no reference to 
problems with the euro account being  the reason why it was no longer going  to do business 
Ref: DRN61549304with E. Instead it specifically refers to difficulties over a number of years  in getting answers 
from E and its collaborators. So it seems to me that it was as a result of problems with E 
over a number of years unrelated to the euro bank account, which  was why it decided  not to 
instruct E any more.
Mr L has also provided statements in respect  of other customers  in relation to lost business. 
But again  Ive not seen  enough evidence which suggests any unpaid  invoices or lost 
business was as a direct result of the euro account being closed.
Mr L has provided a statement for Es euro account  prior to it being closed and after the new 
account was opened. The statements seem to show that transaction  charges were  being 
applied when the new account was opened, which dont appear  to have been charged 
before the original  account was closed.  HSBC hasnt provided  an explanation as to why 
transaction charges have been  applied after the new account was opened.  And 
disappointingly it hasnt  provided a substantive response to my provisional decision.  As  a 
result Im not satisfied  that the charges  have  been  reasonably applied by HSBC. 
So having  thought carefully about  all of this, Im not satisfied that E has shown its more 
likely than not that it suffered a loss of business as a result of HSBC  closing the euro bank 
account. As a result  I cant fairly  instruct HSBC  to pay any compensation in this respect.
I remain of the opinion that the charges Ive referred  to above should  be refunded to E by 
HSBC and they should cease to be applied to the euro bank account moving forward.
fair compensation
In terms of putting things  right, HSBC should compensate E by: 
1.Paying E the transaction charges that it has applied to the euro bank account since it 
was re-opened  in March 2017. 
2.Paying interest  on the amounts E has paid in respect of the transaction charges 
above, at the rate of 8% simple a year; from the date those payments were  made  / 
charged to the date of my final decision. 
If HSBC doesnt pay the compensation to E within 28 days of receiving notification  of 
acceptance of my decision by E, then interest should be paid on the compensation due at 
the rate of 8% simple  a year to the date of payment.
HSBC has also offered to pay E £1,000 for the inconvenience caused  by the closure  of the 
euro bank  account.  Given the information  I have,  I think this figure is fair and reasonable. 
And it should pay this to E in addition  to the compensation  in 1and 2 above.  
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Es complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should calculate and 
pay E the compensation set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Ref: DRN61549305Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6154930