K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about the charges  HSBC Bank  Plc have applied to his current  account 
overdraft. He thinks the charges are too high and as hes experiencing financial difficulties 
hes unable  to pay them back. 
background
Mr Y used an overdraft on his HSBC current account since  around 2014. 
Between 2014-2015,  Mr Y incurred overdraft charges  and interest of around  £15. In 2015-
2016, Mr Y used his overdraft more and the annual charges totalled around £100. Mr Y 
relied on his overdraft in 2016-2017, and the overall  annual charges were around  £450.
HSBC kept Mr Y informed  about the amount of charges he was incurring in his overdraft by 
sending him annual statements. They also wrote to Mr Y each time he exceeded his 
overdraft.
In October  2016, Mr Y applied for a credit card with HSBC. He did this to try and manage his 
finances. Mr Y said he wouldnt use his overdraft as much if he had a credit  card,  and 
therefore wouldnt incur  any overdraft fees. HSBC  approved Mr Ys credit card application. 
They sent him a copy of the credit card application and asked him to send a copy back  to 
them in order to proceed with the application. Mr Y says he sent the application form back to 
HSBC but didnt ever receive the credit  card  so he continued  to use the overdraft.
In May 2017, Mr Y applied for another credit card but HSBC declined  his application.
In July 2017, Mr Y exceeded his overdraft limit. It was also around this time, Mr Y 
unfortunately became unemployed and therefore started to experience financial difficulties. 
Mr Y couldnt afford to pay back the amount he owed HSBC,  due to the amount of charges 
hed previously paid  so he complained. HSBC refunded  some  charges as a gesture of 
goodwill but didnt  uphold Mr Ys complaint overall.  They also registered a default  due to 
non-payment.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ys complaint  didnt think HSBC  had to do anything  
differently. She found they were  entitled  to apply the charges, and couldnt  see theyd 
applied them unfairly. And she said Mr Y hadnt  ever sent the credit  card application back  
which is why he didnt  receive his credit  card from HSBC. 
Mr Y remained unhappy.  In particular he said he couldnt afford  to pay HSBC  what he owes 
them now because theyd taken  so much in charges previously. Mr Y didnt want  to complain 
about the default.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. I know this will disappoint Mr Y greatly, so Ive explained the reasons 
for my decision further below.
Ref: DRN61237952the credit  cards
I recognise Mr Y says he applied for the credit card in 2016  to help control  his finances. Ive 
seen that HSBC did approve  Mr Ys application   and theyve  provided  a copy  of the letter  
they sent to him. Mr Y says he signed the application  form and sent it back to HSBC but he 
didnt receive the credit  card which he thinks has resulted in him incurring more charges by 
using his overdraft.  
Mr Y has provided a photocopy  of the signed form which he would have needed to send 
back to HSBC. While Ive no reason to doubt what Mr Y has said about  sending the form 
back, I havent seen any evidence that he actually posted the form. And the contact notes 
Santander have  provided from the time dont  show anything  was received. HSBC have also 
shown they sent Mr Y text messages about his application but Mr Y didnt  get in touch  with 
them. I think its reasonable to believe if Mr Y sent the form back,  he would have expected  to 
receive the credit card. And I would have expected him to contact HSBC to ask why he 
hadnt received  it  but I havent  seen that he did that. Therefore, I cant reasonably  conclude  
Mr Y did post the form back  to HSBC. And so I cant say they did anything  wrong  by not 
sending him the credit  card.
When Mr Y applied  for another credit  card in 2017,  HSBC declined Mr Ys application. Its for 
a bank to decide who they do and dont lend to  and theyre entitled to decide  their own 
lending criteria. I havent seen anything to suggest HSBCs decision not to lend to Mr Y at 
this point was unfair.  So I wont  be asking them to do anything  in this regard.
the overdraft charges
I know Mr Y is concerned about the charges applied to his account. The Supreme Court 
ruling in 2009  says that charges cant be challenged on the basis  theyre unfair or too high.  
They can only be challenged if theyve been applied incorrectly, against the terms and 
conditions of the account. Looking at Mr Ys statements, and the terms and conditions of his 
account, I havent seen anything which suggests  that HSBC  applied the charges incorrectly.
I appreciate Mr Y is now struggling with his finances because  hes unemployed. And he says 
he cant afford to pay back the amount he owes to HSBC because hes paid so much in 
charges previously. But Ive found  that HSBC were entitled to apply those charges  and 
thats because  Mr Y was using his overdraft. So while I sympathise with the position Mr Y 
now finds himself in, I cant fairly  ask HSBC  to refund the charges it has applied.
HSBC kept Mr Y up to date with the amount of charges through statements and other  
documentation. And Ive also seen letters where they give details of their specialist team  if 
Mr Y found  himself in financial difficulty.  I havent seen anything to show Mr Y told HSBC  
about his financial  difficulties at the time.  Banks are required to deal positively and 
sympathetically with customers in financial difficulty  but customers need to tell them  if 
theyre struggling. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr Y has brought this complaint and Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties hes found himself in. But looking at everything that happened,  I consider that 
HSBC applied the overdraft charges fairly and correctly. Therefore, I wont be asking them  to 
do anything.
Ref: DRN61237953my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6123795