K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a transaction on her debit  card that she 
authorised but which turned out to be part of a scam. 
background
In October  2018 Ms F fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 3 October 2018 Ms F purchased a flight for £425. Ms F made the purchase using her 
Santander debit  card, to what she thought was a legitimate travel company. Ms F was told 
on 8 October 2018 that her flight was cancelled.  She was told she could pay an additional 
£570 to book another flight,  or she could have  a refund of the money  shed already paid.   
Ms F requested a refund.  Unknown  to her at the time Ms F was communicating with a 
fraudster and the payment shed made had gone  to a money transfer service,  rather  than to 
a travel company.
Ms F has said she was told she would get a refund within 7-10 days, but she didnt receive  
this. Over the coming months  Ms F has said she was repeatedly promised a refund, but 
never received it. Shes said she was told it had been raised  with the accounts  team  and 
there was a problem  getting the payment for the refund  through. 
Ms F has told us she visited a Santander branch  in November  2018 to raise  the issue,  but 
was told they couldnt  help and she would need  to speak  to the travel company. Ms F has 
said she also went to the police, who recommended she contact Action  Fraud  as it seemed 
this was a scam.
Ms F complained to Santander  and it issued its final response on 6 March 2019. Santander 
has said there was no grounds for it to dispute  the payment  and that the payment Ms F 
made wasnt unusual  for her. It added that Ms F had willingly made the payment.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Miss F brought the complaint to our service and one of 
our investigators looked into the complaint. Our investigator didnt  think Santander could 
have done anything to prevent the scam   he didnt  consider the transactions made were 
particularly out of the ordinary, or so unusual that it should have  raised Santanders 
suspicions. He also thought about whether any additional card protections applied   but in 
the circumstances, he didnt think they did. 
Ms F didnt accept our investigators view. She said she went  straight  to a Santander branch 
and they didnt help. Ms F also said she paid a travel company and not a money transfer 
service.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63288712Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Ms F, and I can understand entirely why she feels  so 
strongly that her money should  be returned  to her. But having thought very carefully about 
Santanders actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transactions to be 
made. 
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Ms Fs complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Santander should 
reimburse her the money she has unfortunately lost to the fraudster.
It is the case that Ms F authorised the transaction in dispute and thats accepted  by all
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations  2017  that means Ms F is responsible
for it. That remains the case even though Ms F was the unfortunate victim  of a scam.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  there are 
circumstances where  a bank should fairly  and reasonably take additional  steps, or make  
additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Ms F, when Ms F made the transaction and when she reported the fraud,  or whether it 
should have done more  than it did.
Ms F has accepted that she authorised the transactions herself.  Because  of this, Santander  
had an obligation  to follow her instruction. But there are some situations  in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transaction  - as Ive 
explained, I consider  that as a matter  of good  practice Santander shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
But having  reviewed the activity on Ms Fs account for the six months leading up to the 
scam, I dont think the transactions Ms F made were particularly unusual  or out of character 
in comparison to the normal account  activity.  During  this period there are several other  
transactions for over £100 and Ms F makes frequent transactions using her debit card. The 
transaction also didnt  clear the account balance, or leave it in a negative  position  which is 
often the case  with scams.
So I dont  think the activity on the account  was so unusual compared to how the account 
was typically run, that I think  Santander  ought  to have intervened to question its legitimacy, 
before allowing the transactions  to go through. Overall, Im not persuaded  Santander acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about  the transaction  before processing it. 
I understand Ms F has said she made  the payment to a travel  company, and not a money  
transfer service. I dont doubt Ms F believed  she was paying a travel company. But the 
evidence Ive seen  from Santander shows the transaction was made  to a money transfer  
service and not to a travel company, as Ms F had thought. Scammers will often imitate 
legitimate companies  and trick people into making  payments that sadly go to fraudsters, 
rather than to pay for the service of goods that a consumer was intending  to buy.
Ref: DRN63288713Ive thought carefully about what Ms F has said, that she didnt think Santander helped her 
when she first reported to it that she hadnt  received a refund. I only have Ms Fs testimony 
of this conversation  and I dont doubt  she did visit the branch to explain she hadnt had a 
refund. But at this point,  in November 2018, where  Ms F still believed  she was talking to a 
legitimate travel company and had been  promised a refund, I can understand in this context 
why Santander  may have  suggested that Ms F go back to the travel  company.
But there are other methods available to card holders that might  be used to try and recover
money lost to scams. One such method is for the card issuer  to raise a chargeback  on
behalf of its customer.  Santander has said as Ms F had used a money transfer service it 
couldnt raise a dispute. Our investigator  thought  the same and I agree.
Thats because Ms F has essentially paid the money  transfer company for a service: the
sending on of funds.  That service has been provided. And so, even though the reason for
the payment turned  out to be a scam, Ms F has no valid chargeback claim against the
money transfer service.  Its provided the service it was paid for.
Its very unfortunate  Ms F has lost this money  to what  is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I understand the whole  experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Santander should have done  more to prevent her 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander  to refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6328871