K822xcomplaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way British Gas Services Limited (BG) handled  her insurance claim.
background 
Mrs H has a home emergency insurance  policy with BG. In early 2018  she noticed  a bad 
smell coming from the drain in her kitchen  and asked BG to investigate the issue  and repair  
what was causing  it. 
One of BGs expert contractors attended  Mrs Hs property and determined that there was a 
fault with her drainage which was causing the smell. However, the contractor  concluded this 
was a pre-existing fault in the property, caused by either poor installation or poor materials. 
BG declined  to cover the repairs explaining this type of fault wasnt covered by the terms and 
conditions of her policy.  
Unhappy with this, Mrs H complained to BG about the denial of her claim and the delays it 
caused. BG agreed  that it didnt  deal with her complaint in a timely manner and paid her £30 
compensation for this. But it maintained it was correct to decline the claim under the terms of 
her policy.  
Mrs H then brought her complaint to this service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  He concluded that BG was entitled  to rely on the 
opinion of the expert contractor as to the cause of the problem.  And in this case it was a pre-
existing fault which was excluded from coverage under the home emergency policy,  and so 
her home insurer would be better placed to investigate further.  The investigator also let 
Mrs H know she could hire an expert of her own to inspect  the drainage issue, at her own 
cost, and if her expert disagreed as to the cause,  BG would reconsider her claim.
Mrs H remained  unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
She explained shes lived at the property since it was built  over 35 years  and has been  a 
longstanding customer of BGs and so she feels BG should pay for the repairs.  
Since the complaint was passed to me, BG have clarified  the policy exclusion it relied upon 
and increased  its compensation offer by a further £70 to recognise  the delay Mrs H 
encountered and because  she had to chase BG for updates rather  than it proactively 
contacting her.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and can add little to what  has already been explained  to Mrs H. 
Home emergency insurance policies, such  as this one, do not cover every  eventuality or 
incident which might  befall the insured property.  Rather, the policy sets out specific  incidents  
which will be covered and in turn this cover may be subject to specified  exclusions. We 
would generally  accept that insurers are entitled to decide  what  risks they want  to cover  and 
which risks they want to exclude.
Ref: DRN69804762I appreciate Mrs H feels that her home emergency policy  should  cover the repairs  needed to 
eliminate the bad smell coming from her drain. BG relied on its expert  contractors report  as 
to what was causing the smell at Mrs Hs property. The expert  concluded the smell was a 
result of a drainage  problem caused by poor installation or poor materials. Ive not been 
provided with sufficient information to conclude that this isnt correct. 
As the investigator  explained, the policy terms and conditions do not cover the cost of 
repairs for pre-existing faults at the property. And without any evidence to the contrary, I 
think BG was reasonably  entitled to decline payment for these  repairs.  
However, as BG admitted, Mrs H did encounter delays and had to chase it for updates. I 
note the £70 offered as additional  compensation for these failings is still available. In light of 
the circumstances of this complaint and the £30 already paid to Mrs H, I endorse this further 
offer as fair and reasonable settlement of Mrs H complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, British  Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs H an 
additional £70 in full and final settlement of her complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6980476