K821x#15Complaint
Ms R has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited  is holding her responsible for a loan she 
didnt take out.
Background
Ms R is unhappy that Loans 2 Go is asking  her to repay a loan for £300, which was taken 
out in her name. The loan application  was made online and Loans  2 Go paid the money 
directly into her bank account.  The £300 was withdrawn at an ATM within 13 minutes of 
crediting her account.
Ms R said she found out about the loan when she received her bank  statement. She called 
Loans 2 Go and reported the fraud.
Loans 2 Go said she had to repay the loan because the money  was paid into her account 
and withdrawn immediately. It also said she must  have applied  for the loan because  the 
application contained her name, address date of birth and bank account details.
As Ms R didnt agree with this decision, she brought her complaint to this service. She told 
us her brother broke into her property and she thinks he took her iPad.  She said her 
personal information was on the iPad.  She said she had also reported her debit  card missing 
two days before the loan was taken out. She believed her bank had cancelled the card.
She reported this to Action Fraud. 
She also pointed  out that the three telephone numbers  and email  address, which  were  on 
the application form, were  not hers.
The investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it. He said:
the email address  and telephone numbers didnt match the details on our file
another loan was taken out with a different lender in her name. That lender had the 
same contact  details. It said the number  given on the application had been used for 
another loan application in a different name.
the cash was withdrawn in a location  which is over 30 minutes drive from Ms Rs 
home address
the pattern  of activity on the account looks like an account takeover
The investigator recommended  that Loans  2 Go write off the £300  loan. He also asked it to 
refund any payments she made towards  the loan including any interest and charges. He also 
asked Loans 2 Go to remove any data relating to the loan from her credit references. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the investigators  view.  It has asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators view. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN67789562My primary task is to decide whether Ms R took out the loan, not whether  she benefited from 
it or knew about it. So Ive focused mainly on the evidence of the loan application. 
Loans 2 Go havent provided a screen  shot of the application but I accept it included her 
personal details  and of course the loan advance was paid into her account so it must have 
included her bank  account details. However,  the email  and phone  details dont match  the 
ones Ms R has used in her complaint to us.
I appreciate a person might have more than one phone number and email address but the 
evidence from the other  lender suggests that someone else was using the same number to 
take out at least  two other loans and one of them was in a different name. Theres no 
evidence of a connection between Ms R and this other loan. From what  I can see, Loans 2 
Go havent made any efforts to find a connection  between Ms R and telephone numbers or 
email address.
I can see that the loan was paid into Ms Rs current account. So whoever made the
application anticipated being able to get the money  from her account. Its certainly true we
wouldnt ask a loan company to stop pursuing someone if theyd had the benefit of the
money but there is no evidence this is what happened here. 
Ms Rs evidence is that she lost her debit card and reported it missing to her bank.  She 
thought it had cancelled the card. She also believes her brother has done this. And she 
reported this to the police.  
Lastly, I note the cash was withdrawn in a different location to Ms Rs home address. The 
cash from the other loan in her name was also withdrawn in the same area, at night. This 
tends to suggest that the person was living in that area but it isnt conclusive.
Based on the available evidence, I dont consider that Ms R applied for the loan. Therefore, it 
isnt fair for Loans 2 Go to ask her to repay  this. I will now be instructing Loans 2 Go to put 
things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Loans  2 Go Limited to:
 stop pursuing Ms R for this loan,  which she didnt apply for
 refund any repayments she has made, including interest and charges
 add 8% simple interest  to those amounts from the date Ms R paid them  until the date 
of settlement; and
 remove any data about this loan from Ms Rs credit  record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6778956