K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident)  were  irresponsible  to 
provide her with credit  as she clearly couldnt  afford  it at the time.
background 
Miss T took out five loans  with Provident as follows:
Date Amount
November 2012 150
April 2013 300
July 2013 500
November 2013 400
December 2013 400
She says she wasnt in the right frame of mind  at the time and was suffering from mental 
illness which  had been heightened by the death of her daughter.  And she says it was clear 
she couldnt afford the repayments on the loans and had previously defaulted on credit on 
several occasions. So she says the money shouldnt have been lent to her.
Provident said it routinely  checked credit reference  data and income and expenditure on 
loans and had done in these cases. They said that for each loan they were  persuaded that 
Miss T had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. And with regard to the 
defaults they explained that the last of these was some  time ago and Miss Ts finances 
appeared to have stabilised  first. They didnt think there was reason for them to reject  
Miss Ts credit applications and didnt accept theyd lent irresponsibly.
So Miss T referred her complaint to this service. She explained that the three defaults on her 
credit file were all from loans shed had with Provident.  Our investigator noted that Provident 
hadnt been able to provide evidence that theyd credit checked  Miss Ts first loan with them 
in 2012. She noted that when the second loan had been applied  for, the credit file Provident  
had reviewed would have reminded them that Miss T had three previous defaults with them  
and there  was £1,675 owing. She thought  there was therefore evidence  that they shouldnt 
have provided  the credit  they did and she suggested  they therefore  refund the interest 
Miss T had paid on all five loans and remove any negative  information recorded about these 
loans on Miss Ts credit file.
The business agreed. They said they would buy the debt that had accrued of £2,003.54 
back from the debt collectors. They explained that this debt comprised of £1,530.36  of 
interest and £473.18  of capital. They explained that Miss T had repaid some  interest  on the 
loan already but that it was less than the loan capital.  So for ease they suggested they 
wouldnt pursue  payment  of the capital  instead  of refunding  the interest already paid. They  
added that they agreed to remove any adverse credit file entries for each of the accounts.
But Miss T disagreed as she didnt think the balance  on her account had been calculated  
correctly. So she asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64541992I have reviewed the whole file when  coming  to my decision. For completeness,  although I 
understand its no longer contended, I agree  that these loans were  irresponsibly made  
because its clear Provident should  have  been  aware Miss T had significant defaulted debt 
with them.  
In those circumstances I would agree with the adjudicator that interest  on the loans should  
be returned and the credit files cleaned of any adverse  information  in relation to these  loans.
Miss T has disputed whether the balance of her account is correct so Ive checked the 
figures provided. Ive looked at the amount of the loans and the repayments  that have been  
made so far and Im satisfied Providents figures are accurate. 
Miss T has also questioned whether Provident will be paying  off debt from her other 
defaulted accounts. But this complaint has only considered the five loans made  to her 
between November 2012 and December 2013.  So the earlier  loans would need  to be the 
subject of another complaint if Miss T wishes to make one with Provident and if they dont 
consider them time barred, as it appears  they were made more than six years  ago and a 
complaint may therefore not be possible.
Provident has suggested that rather than return the interest Miss T has paid, they write  off 
the capital that would be due on the loan when  they take it back. As the capital is more than 
the interest Miss T has paid I think thats  a reasonable suggestion. Miss T will be better  off 
as a result  but no refund  will be made  as her debt will be removed instead.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited to:
buy back the debt of £2,003.54 and write off the interest and capital; closing the 
account with nothing further to pay
remove any negative information  that has been recorded about  these loans from 
Miss Ts credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6454199