K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Black Horse Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
background
In April 2018 Mr A bought  a second had car from a dealer  I will call C. It was six years old 
and had done some  42,000 miles. He paid a deposit of £200,  part exchanged a car valued 
at £7,000 and the balance was funded by a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse.  Mr A 
encountered problems  with the car and contacted C. He says the ABS light came on, there  
was a noise from the sun roof, a problem  selecting reverse gear, a knocking noise and a 
vibration coming  from the engine.
When he took the car in he told C there  was an issue with the gears and the cruise control. 
C carried out repairs and Mr A says the car wasnt right. He contacted C again on 28 August 
and it was taken  for repairs on 24 September. C carried out a software update  to address 
the reverse gear issue, but couldnt  detect any other faults.
The car was returned to C in October with a problem with reverse gear. C took the car to a 
main dealer  and it carried out repairs. All repair work was carried  out under warranty. Mr A 
didnt collect the car.
Mr A notified  Black  Horse.  It says it made  several  attempts to contact him in writing  and by 
phone, but without success. It suggested the car be subjected  to an independent inspection,  
but without an answer  from Mr A this didnt go ahead. However, after the matter was referred  
to this service an inspection was arranged and this found no faults save for squeaking 
brakes. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She noted  the efforts Black Horse had made  to contact Mr A and its offer of an 
inspection. Mr A denied  receiving the letters  and it seems the phone number provided to the 
business was either  incorrect or out of date. However, the investigator  saw that Mr A had 
called Black Horse on 2 August and had been  told about the offer to have the car inspected,  
but it seems he to have  rejected this. 
Our investigator also listened to a call Mr A had with C in which  he said he had been  told he 
could reject the car. She said he had been told that if he wished to do so he should  contact 
Black Horse.  In the circumstances  she didnt think Black Horse had done anything  wrong 
and she suggested  Mr A should  collect  the car from C. She added  that the squeaking brakes 
were possibly due it being  sat for several  months.
Mr A didnt agree and said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and he had been 
inconvenienced by the lack of a working  car. He said he hadnt refused  an inspection and he 
had only taken the car back  to C because of the lack of a reply from Black Horse.
Ref: DRN61762492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is unfortunate that Mr A had some  problems with his car, but it seems  that these have 
been rectified and it is available  for him to reclaim and use. This complaint is against Black  
Horse and it was first made aware of the problems at the end of May. Its response  was to 
suggest an independent inspection to establish  if the car could be rejected or if any repairs  
were required. That was a reasonable and fair response.  
Mr A says he didnt receive  a number of letters, but I can see that they were properly 
addressed and I cannot hold Black Horse responsible for Mr A not receiving  them. It also 
sought to call him, but it didnt have the right number. Again  I cannot  say that Black Horse  
was responsible that failure. In any event  Mr A spoke to the business on 2 August and he 
was aware of what it was suggesting.
I note he says he didnt  refuse an independent inspection, but if that was the case I am 
unclear as to why one wasnt undertaken. It is clear from the records that Black Horse  
wanted one and was prepared to pay for it. All, that was required was Mr As agreement. 
While the car may have  had faults those  have been repaired without charge to Mr A and I 
consider it wouldnt  be fair to require the business to allow Mr A to reject a car which is in 
working order. It seems that the situation  has arisen,  in part due to a break down in 
communications, but I consider  Black Horse made efforts to speak with Mr A and I cannot  
conclude it has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN61762493my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6176249