K821x#15complaint
Ms T says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint, which  included  the following:
Ms T bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2002.  At the same  time she was sold 
a single premium PPI policy. The cost of the policy was added  to the loan and interest was 
charged on it.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint  be upheld on the grounds that the PPI didnt 
offer value for money as it limited the number  of monthly unemployment benefits that could 
be paid to 12 in total. Northern Bank disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general  
approach to complaints  about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding Ms Ts case.
Having done so, I dont believe Northern Bank mis-sold the PPI to Ms T. Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and Ms T had to agree to take 
it. Ms T has told us that she didnt  know PPI had been added  to the loan. Northern  Bank 
doesnt have any specific paperwork from the sale which isnt surprising considering it took 
place many years ago. So Ive considered the available evidence  to determine what I 
believe is more likely  than not to have happened.
Northern Banks given us some sample documents which it says were  used  at the time of the 
sale. This includes a copy  of a credit agreement which  it says Ms T would have signed. On 
this document  I can see a section called Fixed Tailored Personal Loan Protection Plan  
the name Northern  Bank gave to PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept or 
decline to take out the cover. The section also requires the applicant to sign to confirm their 
selection. I think  its likely  that this is the same as, or very similar to, the agreement  Ms T 
would have seen  and signed, and so I think its more likely  than not the PPI was added  to her 
account when  she ticked and signed  the form to say she wanted the cover.
So, based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think  Northern  Bank made Ms T aware 
she had a choice  about the PPI and she agreed  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if 
she didnt want it.
From experience and what its told us, Northern Bank recommended  the PPI to Ms T. That 
meant it should have  checked if the PPI was right for her. And, based on what I know about 
her personal  circumstances, I think it was. I say this because Ms T appears to have been 
eligible for the PPI and doesnt  seem to be affected by any of the main exclusions to, or 
limits on, the cover.
Ref: DRN63359822Im aware that, as our adjudicator pointed out, the PPI only paid up to 12 monthly  benefit  
payments in total for unemployment. And that the loan and PPI were  both due to run for five 
years. That might have  left Ms T effectively  without unemployment cover for a large  
proportion of the loan. That said, Ive also considered the other  features of the policy,  
together with Ms Ts circumstances, in deciding whether Northern Banks recommendation 
to buy it was suitable for her.  
Ms Ts said she was entitled  to sick and/or redundancy  pay but hasnt specified how much 
or for how long it would have been paid.  Similarly, shes said would have had other ways of 
making her loan repayments if she wasnt working but hasnt said where this would have 
come from or much shed  have got. As such,  I cant  place too much  emphasis on what  
Ms Ts said, although given the nature of her work and that she only had around a years 
length of service by the time of the sale, I assume  any employer benefits she was entitled to 
were relatively limited.
The PPI benefits  for disability, on the other hand,  could have potentially  covered her 
monthly loan repayments until the end of the loan. As I say, she could also have received a 
total of up to 12 months unemployment benefits under the policy.  All of this would have 
been in addition to any other sources  of income  shed have received. So I think the PPI 
could have given  her reassurance that her repayments would be protected if anything  went  
wrong and that it could  have been  useful to her.
It might be that Ms T would only have got back a limited refund of the PPI premium if she 
paid off her loan early. I dont know if Northern Bank thought about this when it 
recommended the policy. But I havent seen anything to suggest she intended to settle the 
loan early. So I dont think this meant the PPI wasnt right for her.
Northern Bank also had to ensure it gave Ms T clear information  about the PPI to allow her 
to make an informed decision about  whether to take it. As Ive said,  I think  that Ms T chose 
to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
provided useful  and affordable protection for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T. But 
Northern Bank will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because:  
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Ms T about that. Because Northern Bank didnt  tell 
Ms T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Banks basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Ms T any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already  done so. Northern Bank should also pay 
back to Ms T any extra interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Ms T the extra she paid each  month on the loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium   including any 
Ref: DRN63359823extra Ms T paid if the loan was paid off early.  Northern  Bank  should  also pay Ms T 8%* 
simple interest on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms T can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
I understand Ms Ts subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Her Insolvency 
Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund Ms T might receive. Ms T and 
Northern Bank should bear in mind Ms Ts obligations to her IP in respect of any redress  
thats paid.
my provisional decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Ms T any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt  already  done so.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
Both Ms T and Northern Bank  accepted my provisional decision.  Northern Bank  asked who it 
should pay regarding  the commission and profit share.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Ms Ts case.
Having done so, and bearing  in mind the parties acceptance of my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different decision now.
Regarding Northern Banks query,  I repeat what I said in my previous decision.  That is, I 
understand Ms Ts subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Her Insolvency 
Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund Ms T might receive. Ms T and 
Northern Bank should bear in mind Ms Ts obligations to her IP in respect of any redress  
thats paid.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Ref: DRN63359824Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6335982