K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc gave  him poor service when he told them that an 
ATM wasnt  working and also when he tried to complain about  the service  that he got. 
Mr B would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered because of the 
poor service. 
background
On 1 February 2019, Mr B went to the bank to use the ATM.  He found that it wasnt  working. 
He waited for the bank to open.  
Mr B says that, when  the bank opened, the woman  who opened the doors  greeted  others 
whod been waiting after him so he just walked in first without talking to her. Someone then 
approached him and asked what he was in for. He spoke to a cashier and said that the ATM  
wasnt working. Mr B says that this person was rude to him as she told him to use another  
ATM at a different bank. Mr B says that, whilst he was talking to the cashier, the woman who 
had opened the bank  walked past him and pressed a button  on the ATM. She then went  
outside. Mr B says when  she came  back in, she briskly  said the ATM was now working and 
walked away. 
Mr B complained to the bank for the service  that he had received. 
The bank didnt  uphold  his complaint. They  say that:
the cashier was trying  to be helpful  in suggesting  that he use a different ATM;
the ATM is emptied and serviced for the day in the morning and that it was working  at 
9.01am;
their CCTV  shows that he was greeted when he came in;
they couldnt allow Mr B a copy of the CCTV footage;
when someone  came  to ask him what he was in for, the ATM was working again so 
Mr B went  back outside again.   
Mr B wasnt  happy with this decision so he came  to us.
Our investigator agreed with Mr Bs version  of events and thought  that there had been poor 
service. She thought  that the bank should  pay Mr B £50 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the poor service.  
The bank wasnt happy with this and so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid the bank  wont be happy  with my decision. Im upholding the complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Ive been unable to agree with the banks version of events. I believe Mr Bs version of 
events. The reason for this is that Mr B has, from the outset of this complaint, gone to great 
Ref: DRN61136922lengths to ensure that the CCTV footage  of what happened at the bank wasnt lost or 
deleted. I cant  see why he wouldve done this if it didnt support what  he was saying.  
Additionally, Im disappointed  that the bank did overwrite the CCTV footage  even though it 
was clear that we had requested it before it was overwritten.  I feel that the bank  shouldve  
protected the CCTV footage as it was clearly needed to resolve this dispute. I can see no 
reason why they didnt allow our investigator a copy of the footage. I think that this is 
something that they need to properly  consider  with legal  advice.  
I dont think that it is relevant whether  Mr B used the ATM  in the end. It remains  that he had 
asked for it to be fixed and that it wasnt being filled. I believe that it was working again after 
the member of staff pressed a button.    
I think that the cashier mightve been  trying to be helpful when she suggested  that Mr B use 
another ATM. But I cant see how she wouldve needed to suggest this if the ATM was fixed  
by 9.01am. 
I find that the banks  version of events dont  add up. So, I think that there has been  poor 
service. I think that £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
Because of the poor service given by Bank of Scotland  plc, I require them  to pay 
compensation of £50 to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6113692