K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that IGO4 Limited  didnt properly  explain its charges when he 
cancelled his car insurance policy. He believes its charges are unfair.  
background
Mr B renewed his car insurance policy through a broker,  IGO4 in May 2018. Mr B told us he 
changed his car shortly  after renewal  but found  that the premium IGO4  quoted  was higher 
than what he could  get by shopping  around. So he decided  to cancel his policy.  This was 17 
days after his policy had renewed. 
IGO4 said Mr B owed a balance of £202.37.  Mr B complained that IGO4 gave him different 
reasons as to why he owed it this amount. He said IGO4 told him its cancellation fee was 
£75  but then told him he also owed it a commission  fee. It didnt refund a fee Mr B paid for 
roadside assistance at £49.99.
Mr B said he thought it was fair for him to pay the cancellation fee and the first months 
instalment which  hed paid at £60.44. But he didnt think it was fair for him to pay any more  
than that.
IGO4 told us it charged Mr B £113.46 for the commission  it said the insurer  would claw back. 
It included this sum in the total insurance premium it said Mr B owed which  was £137.82. 
IGO4 said it explained  it would charge the full commission amount if Mr B cancelled  his 
policy after 14 days in its terms and conditions. 
The investigator recommended  upholding part of Mr Bs complaint. She listened to the 
recording of the call between IGO4 and Mr B at renewal. IGO4  hadnt told Mr B that it would 
charge him the full commission fee on cancellation  or how much it was  before he bought  
the policy. She thought this was unfair  and thought that it was more likely  on balance that 
Mr B wouldnt have  bought the policy if hed known.
The investigator recommended  IGO4  refund  the £113.46 commission fee it charged with 
interest at a rate of 8% simple interest  a year. She thought it was reasonable for it to charge 
its cancellation fee  and that Mr B wasnt entitled to a refund of the additional product fee. 
Mr B accepted the investigators view. IGO4  didnt agree. It said its terms and conditions  set 
out that no refund will be payable  for commission paid if the policy is cancelled after 14 days. 
It says it isnt possible to say within the terms how much the commission will be as it varies 
from case to case. 
As IGO4 doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Since the investigator issued her view, IGO4  has told us that the balance  of £202.37 remains 
outstanding. 
Ref: DRN63704452IGO4 explained  in its terms and conditions that it receives a commission  payment from the 
insurer and it includes this in the premium Mr B pays. It said that if Mr B cancelled the policy 
after 14 days, the commission wont be refundable. It also said that it wont  refund any of the 
premium Mr B paid for additional products after the cooling  off period ends.
We asked IGO4 to provide a further breakdown of the premium  it said Mr B owed as it 
quoted £137.82 for 17 days insurance cover. IGO4  told us that this was made up of the 
insurers charge of £24.36 for the days Mr B was insured and £113.46 for the commission.  
The recording of the renewal call revealed that IGO4 didnt tell Mr B that hed have to pay a 
commission fee in full if he cancelled his policy after 14 days. I think  the sum is significant 
and it wasnt explained. And Mr B had no indication as to how much it might be in IGO4s  
terms and conditions, which I think was unfair.  
I think  had IGO4 made Mr B aware  of the commission fee hed have  to pay if he cancelled 
the policy after 14 days - he most  likely would have decided not to renew the policy.  So I 
dont think IGO4 should charge Mr B its commission fee of £113.46.
Mr B bought an additional product  for roadside assistance. IGO4  told Mr B that if he 
cancelled his policy after 14 days, no refund would apply  for the additional product he 
bought. I think  IGO4 correctly applied the insurers terms here.  
We think its fair for a business to charge a reasonable  cancellation charge to cover its 
administration costs  - provided its set out in its terms and conditions.  IGO4 did this as it 
explained that it would charge Mr B £75 if he cancelled his policy after 14 days. And Mr B 
has no objection to paying this sum. So I think its fair for IGO4 to apply this charge. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require IGO4 Limited to reduce the amount 
it says Mr B owes  on cancellation by removing the commission  fee of £113.46.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370445