K820x#14complaint
Ms C and Ms L complain  that The Mortgage  Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) pressured them 
to agree to an insurance policy and are now being asked to pay an arrangement fee.
background
Ms C and Ms L approached MAB to arrange a mortgage for them  when purchasing a new 
property in 2016. They wanted  to port over their current  mortgage.  MAB recommended a 
mortgage with their existing provider. It also recommended they take out life cover  in the 
form of a term assurance policy. 
Ms C and Ms L signed  an Arrangement Fee Deferment  Agreement  in January 2016  to waive 
any brokerage fees payable upfront (other than £199 arrangement  fee). This waiver 
agreement was dependent  on making  48 monthly payments to this term assurance policy.  
Ms C and Ms L proceeded with the mortgage but subsequently decided  not go ahead with 
the term assurance policy. MAB then asked for the deferred arrangement  fees to be paid 
because Ms C and Ms L had not made the 48 monthly payments as required under the 
Arrangement Fee Deferment Agreement.
Ms C and Ms L say they were pressured  into agreeing the term assurance  policy  and so it is 
unfair for MAB to ask them to pay the 1.5% arrangement fees MAB had demanded (less the 
£199 already paid).
The investigator at this service said there was no evidence to suggest any pressure was 
applied. He said Ms C and Ms L had been  provided  all the information  and in the end they 
didnt proceed  with the term assurance  policy anyway. They  would still have had to pay MAB 
the arrangement  fee for the work done  in arranging  their mortgage.
Ms C and Ms L didnt  agree so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of their requirements  Ms C and Ms L said they wanted a life assurance policy. MAB 
recommended a particular policy to begin with. They were concerned about their budget 
restraints so wanted  to keep the upfront fees at a minimum. MAB suggested a term 
assurance policy that fit in with their requirements. This would also mean they could avoid 
paying any upfront  fees. Any fees payable would  be waived  under an Arrangement  Fee 
Deferment Agreement  which Ms C and Ms L agreed to in January 2016. 
This gave  them the life assurance cover they wanted and also meant  they wouldnt have to 
pay the upfront  brokerage  fees to MAB. Ms C and Ms L asked for advice on a mortgage and 
on life cover. Although its noted  in the request for life cover they had a tight budget
MAB recommended a mortgage and a term assurance policy. Having some  protection to 
ensure the mortgage could be paid if something  happened to one of them  is a sensible 
precaution so I think the term policy was suitable  and in line with their requirements. 
Ms C and Ms L say they were pressured  into agreeing this term assurance policy.  Whilst I 
appreciate that purchasing a property  and going  through the process  of obtaining  a 
Ref: DRN69271932mortgage is stressful, I cant  see from the evidence provided that they were in any way 
pressured into this decision by MAB. When  Ms C and Ms L had communication  issues  in 
arranging the policy with the first provider that MAB  had suggested; they contacted  the 
provider directly to arrange the policy themselves. In addition to this, they never actually 
proceeded with the recommended policy so Im satisfied they werent pressured into 
proceeding with the assurance  policy. Ms C and Ms L havent provided me any further 
information or evidence that would persuade me otherwise.  
So I think the key thing here is, did Ms C and Ms L know  what  they were signing up to and 
was it made  clear how the fees would work?    When they got advice they were  told what  it 
would cost  the deferment form and the suitability report said that 1.5% would be payable. 
The suitability report also said the life cover wasnt essential, but if they took one out and 
paid the life cover policy for four years then the 1.5% fee would be waived. Im satisfied Ms 
C and Ms L saw these  documents before agreeing and so they should  have understood 
thered be a fee to pay if they didnt  go with a life cover policy.
In order for Ms C and Ms L to make  an informed decision about how to proceed, I think it 
would have been important for them to have understood what  the costs  involved  in the 
different options  were  likely to be. There are copies  of quotes from the initial life cover 
provider from the day of advice  with premiums totalling about £54 a month. The later policy  
had a slightly higher premium, but Ms C and Ms L then said theyd only pay £10-15 a month.  
They would have  known  that when they got the £54 quote and still elected to go ahead. So if 
Im satisfied they knew the amount  then and they agreed  to MAB giving a service  where  
theyd have to pay 1.5%  unless they paid about £54 a month for the assurance policy.
Ms C and Ms L approached MAB to arrange their mortgage after using them  previously.  
Even if they had understood  things  better, in my view they would more likely  than not have 
gone ahead  anyway. I think they wanted to obtain  mortgage advice again and they would 
always have had to pay for that. Having used MAB previously, they knew  they had to pay an 
arrangement fee to MAB.  So I cant see why they would think  they wouldnt need to pay an 
arrangement fee for the service they received this time. 
I have looked  at similar cases involving the MAB  Arrangement Fee Deferment Agreement.  
Each has its own set of circumstances that separate these  cases. I have looked at this one 
based on its individual facts and the evidence available. Here the advice given is in line with 
Ms C and Ms Ls requirements and was suitable.  The suitability report does say that a 1.5% 
fee applied and that this would be waived if payments were made to the assurance policy  for 
four years. It is clear Ms C and Ms L knew they still have had to pay an arrangement  fee to 
MAB for the service they received.  As such I cant say that MAB have done anything wrong 
and so I will not be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
I will not be upholding this complaint against  Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69271933
Ref: DRN6927193