K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms W say Tipton and Coseley Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr B and Ms W took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2000  and amended  this twice  in 
2003. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 February  2019, giving Mr B and Ms W and Tipton and 
Coseley the chance to respond.  I said in my provisional decision that I wasnt planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr B and Ms W and Tipton and Coseley have responded  to say they have nothing further to 
add. So Im now issuing  my final decision on this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Ms Ws case. 
Given that Mr B and Ms W and Tipton  and Coseley  had nothing further to add, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr B and Ms Ws complaint because:
I think Tipton and Coseley made Mr B and Ms W aware that they had a choice about 
buying the MPPI, and they chose  to take it. They completed specific application forms for 
the MPPI  at the start and at each amendment. So I think  they knew  it was a separate 
product from their mortgage.  The forms gave them  a choice about who was covered by 
the policy, the amount of the benefit  and how this was split between them. In 2000  they 
chose to just cover  Ms W, in April 2003 they chose for it to be split between  Mr B and 
Ms W, and in July 2003 they chose for it to only cover Mr B. And none of the documents  
suggested they had to have  it in order to get the mortgage.
Tipton and Coseley didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr B and Ms W so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them.
The cost of the policy was shown on each  PPI application form. So I think Mr B and 
Ms W wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for it.
Its possible that Tipton and Coseley didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Ms W wasnt affected  by the main  things  that werent covered. Mr B had an 
operation in 2000, but this was after the MPPI was first sold. And at that time it only 
covered Ms W. So I dont think this wouldve made any difference  during the initial sale.
Mr B has now said he had an ongoing condition since his operation. And that he 
sometimes takes pain medication for this. But in April 2003 and July 2003 he stated in 
Ref: DRN61716402the MPPI  applications  that he hadnt seen a doctor or been  prescribed medication in the 
previous 12 months.  And hes told us the condition hasnt caused  him to take any time 
off work and that it hasnt affected  his life too much. Because of this, I think  Mr B and 
Ms W would still have  taken the MPPI in 2003,  even if theyd  been  given more 
information about the main things the policy  didnt  cover.
Ive taken into account Mr B and Ms Ws comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6171640