K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) has declined  an escape  of 
water claim she made under her home insurance policy.
background
In mid-2016, Mrs F and her family purchased a new property. Mrs F said they hadnt been 
able to view it after their offer was accepted  so, by the time they moved in, it had been some  
months since they had been in the property. Mrs F says when they moved  in there  was 
significant damage to the property that hadnt  been  present when she last visited.  Mrs F said 
the ceilings and walls in the kitchen  and living room were saturated. There  was also damage 
to the floor of the conservatory and bathroom.
Mrs F said she had a number of family and friends who were  able to step in and help 
complete the repairs. But Mrs F says they werent able to complete all the necessary repairs  
and, in early 2018,  she contacted RSA to make a claim for escape of water  under her home 
insurance policy.
RSA sent a loss adjuster out to assess the damage.  They reported  the damage  to the 
property was extensive. RSA said it asked Mrs F for photographs showing the state of the 
property when she moved in, and for invoices setting out the repair  work that had been 
done. It says Mrs F didnt provide these. RSA considered Mrs Fs claim but declined it. They 
said Mrs F ought to have let them know she intended to make a claim much  sooner than she 
did, and as soon  as she was aware  significant works were needed to the property, as set out 
in the terms of her policy. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with this and asked  us to look into her complaint. Our investigator did 
this and said he didnt  think  RSA had acted unfairly.  In particular, he said the passage of 
time since the damage was first identified meant it would be very difficult to identify the 
extent of the original  damage.  As a result, he thought RSA had acted fairly in saying Mrs F 
hadnt complied  with the terms of the policy.
Mrs F didnt  agree with our initial assessment, and the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The issue  I need to decide  is whether 
RSA has acted fairly by declining Mrs Fs claim.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs F, but, having  
considered everything, Ive reached  the same  conclusions as the investigator, Ill explain 
why. 
Ive considered the specific details of Mrs Fs policy, which says:
NOTIFICATION OF A CLAIM: 
1. If anything happens which might lead to a claim,  what you must do depends on what  
has happened.  The sooner  you tell us the better. In some cases, there are other people 
you must contact first.  For all other  claims,  tell us as soon  as you can
In addition to this, I note Mrs Fs policy also says:
Ref: DRN662642322. CHANGES IN CIRCUMSTANCE:
Using the address  on the front of your schedule,  you must tell us within  30 days as 
soon as you know about any of the following:
If your home is not in good  condition, if it requires  work other than routine  
maintenance or decorating or any structural alteration or extension  to your home.
If you do not tell us about  changes or give us incorrect information, the wrong  
terms may be quote, a claim  might  be rejected or a payment could be reduced.
RSA said that Mrs F didnt comply with the terms of the policy by notifying  it of the damage 
at the time this was identified. It said, despite sending  a loss assessor to inspect her 
property, it was unable  to validate  the claim and identify the original  damage. As a result, it 
considered it had acted correctly  in declining this claim.   
Mrs F and her family  moved into the property  in mid-2016, but didnt contact RSA for 
18 months to let it know she might need  to make  a claim. While there isnt a specific 
timeframe set out in policy clause  1, I dont think 18 months is a reasonable period of time to 
wait before notifying RSA that a claim might need  to be made.  Given the time that has 
passed; the loss adjuster instructed by RSA says it cant identify the original damage that 
was present when  Mrs F took ownership of the property in mid-2016, and what  damage had 
subsequently occurred. 
And, in addition to this, Im mindful  Mrs Fs policy also contains a clause that states she must 
let RSA know if her property needs  work  other than routine maintenance. Mrs F has told us 
about the substantial repair works shes had completed in the property since  mid-2016,  
when she moved in. I think it is reasonable to suggest that she ought to have known she 
might need  to raise  a claim, and therefore could have contacted  RSA sooner. RSA has also 
said that Mrs F hasnt been able to provide any invoices  that validate  the works  completed 
by her family  and friends. While I appreciate Mrs Fs view they were helping her family out, 
without some documentation detailing the repairs  carried  out, I dont think  RSA are able to 
determine what work was done  and whether any of it is insured. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mrs F has told us about, historically, a separate 
insurance claim which she found  was a drawn out and difficult process. And shes  also said 
because she had family and friends  who could help with the repairs,  she wanted to move 
forward with the repairs needed as quickly as possible to make the house more habitable for 
her family. 
While I do understand this, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly in declining Mrs Fs claim. I 
think it was a reasonable expectation that Mrs F would have contacted RSA to put it on 
notice as soon  as she was aware of the damage. If this had happened,  it could have 
assessed the situation much sooner and might have been able to help put things right.  But 
she didnt do so and, while  Im sorry to hear of the impact their living conditions are having 
on Mrs F and her family,  I cant say RSA has unfairly applied the terms of her policy.   
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN66264233Emma Hawkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6626423