K820x#14complaint
Ms P and Mr P say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  two payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies.
background and summary to complaint
Ms P and Mr P bought  the first policy in a branch with a mortgage that started in 1990. The 
policy was cancelled and the second policy  taken in 2000 with a mortgage amendment. 
Ms P and Mr P think this also happened  in a branch. B&B thinks it mightve been by post.
The first policy provided  cover for Mr P for accident and sickness  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay £100 a month towards Ms P and Mr Ps mortgage  balance 
in the event of a successful claim.  B&B says it cost £3.50 per month  at the time.  
The second  policy  provided cover for Ms P for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £175 a month towards the mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. B&B says it cost £9.80  per month at the time.
The application form for the 1990  mortgage says Mr P was employed  as a railworker  and 
had been for nine years. He has told us he cant remember whether he had work sick pay or 
redundancy pay. But the mortgage  form says he had cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment of full for 6 months.  So I think he was entitled to full pay for six months for 
sickness and/or redundancy. The form says Mr P hadnt been treated for any serious  health  
issue in the previous five years and Ive no details of any health issues he had. So, from 
what I have, I think  Mr P was in good  health. Ms Ps job details arent on the mortgage  form, 
so it looks like the application was mainly based  on Mr Ps salary.
When the second policy was sold, Ms P was employed as a cashier. Shes told us shed  
been there for ten years.  From  what  shes  told us, I think  she was entitled to statutory sick 
pay and redundancy pay. Due to the amendment being made, only Ms Ps job details were 
recorded on the mortgage paperwork at the time. Ms P has told us of infections she had as a 
young child. Shes also told us of injuries she suffered, and had a few weeks off work for, 
around 17 years before  she took the second  policy. She hasnt  told us of any other, or more 
recent, health issues. 
From what  Ms P and Mr P have told us, they had life cover but, apart from the work benefits,  
they didnt at the time of either sale have any other means with which  to repay  the mortgage 
if they couldnt work. 
B&B has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  closed in 2002.
Ms P and Mr Ps representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Ms P and Mr Ps representative  says:
Ref: DRN67607572 
B&B failed each  time to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms P and Mr P wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Ms P and Mr Ps representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&B should have told Ms P and Mr P 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms P and Mr P and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Ms P and Mr P received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Ms P and Mr P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms P and Mr Ps. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms P and Mr Ps 
complaint.
The first sale took place with a 1990  mortgage and the second  took place in February  2000,  
in both cases before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC)  published its code of 
practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.
So, the GISC Code,  the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and 
insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent  applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN67607573The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
There were,  at the time of each sale, a number of industry codes in existence,  which  Im 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI 
Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time of the sales. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code 
and these other publications  into account when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms P and Mr Ps case.
By the time of the second sale there was also the Mortgage Code,  which was a voluntary 
code followed by subscribing lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly 
about mortgage related matters, it also included some insurance related  commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Ms P and Mr Ps complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN67607574Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms P and Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether each policy was appropriate  or suitable for them, given  their needs 
and circumstances.
-Whether B&B gave  Ms P and Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take each policy, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main policy  provisions  and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Ms P and Mr Ps 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms P and Mr P 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms P and Mr P know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Ms P and Mr P have said they had no 
interest in PPI and they have said B&B just added it as part of the package with their 
mortgage. Ive thought  about this carefully.
But their mortgage  application had a separate PPI section with a space to cross if they didnt 
require cover. It also had a space to tick if they required accident and sickness cover only 
and a space to tick instead if they also wanted  unemployment cover. In this case  the form 
was ticked to say accident  and sickness cover  was required. It was also filled in to say Mr P 
was to be insured  for all £100 of the cover. The form to amend  the mortgage  in 2000 also 
had a separate PPI section. It asked whether PPI was wanted and indicated this could  be 
answered Yes or No. Ms P also signed a separate PPI application form at the time to take 
£175 of cover. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely Ms P and Mr P knew 
the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did B&B  provide advice?
Both B&B and Ms P and Mr P agree advice wasnt provided at either sale.  This means B&B 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Ms P and Mr P. Instead, it had to give them 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable them  to make an informed  choice 
about whether  to take the PPI, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  policy provisions  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions.
Ref: DRN67607575the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms P and Mr P were given a broad description of what  
the policies were intended to cover (that is, they would  help protect  the mortgage payments 
if, for the first policy, Mr P were unable to work  due to accident or sickness  or, for the second 
policy, Ms P couldnt work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment) and the approximate  
costs. I say this because I think its unlikely Ms P and Mr P would  have taken the PPI without 
any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
Also I think  Ms P and Mr P knew what the monthly benefit amount was in each case   for the 
first policy it was on their mortgage application  and for the second  it was on the separate  PPI 
application form. The mortgage application  also indicated that known medical conditions that 
may become subject  to a claim wouldnt be covered by the first policy  and what was said in 
the declaration  Ms P signed for the second policy included: I understand  that if I had any 
illness, disease, condition  or injury  in the last 12 months, I may still take out cover but will not 
be able to claim for benefits directly relating to that sickness, disease or injury.
But the evidence  from the time of the sales doesnt  tell us whether B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the other  exclusions  or limitations  before Ms P 
and Mr P agreed to take the PPI.
So I dont  think B&B gave Ms P or Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take each policy, including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
policy provisions and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms P and Mr Ps representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms P and 
Mr Ps. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Ms P and Mr Ps representative  considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Ms P and Mr P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.
Im not persuaded by Ms P and Mr Ps representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed, each  time,  a duty on both parties to the contract to 
disclose material facts  and not to make  material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain  
what a court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Ms P and Mr P have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN67607576what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Ms P and Mr P? To what extent did Ms P 
and Mr P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold the PPI to Ms P and Mr P. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would still have taken  the PPI, had B&B done  things properly.
Ms P and Mr P say they would not have taken  either  policy  and believe I should  presume 
this to be the case given the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Ms P and Mr P had to weigh up in their own minds  the 
cost of the PPI against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Ms P and Mr P chose to take the policies. So I consider it reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made their decisions based  on incomplete information. So what  Ms P and Mr P thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Ms P and Mr P have suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Ms P and Mr P were given  about the benefit was clear.  I also think  its likely 
they were told the first policy wouldnt cover Mr P for known medical conditions that may 
become subject to a claim, because their mortgage application form said so. And I think 
Ms P was likely made aware she wouldnt be covered for claims relating to any health issue 
shed had in the year before she took the cover , because the PPI application said so. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as other  limitations and exclusions and 
the cost, wasnt as clear  as it should have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms P and Mr P knew  they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, it doesnt  appear B&B told them the exact premium for either  policy at 
the point they applied.  Having said that, I dont think its likely Ms P or Mr P wouldve taken 
the PPI without some idea of the approximate  cost. Also if, when starting to pay for either 
policy, the cost was significantly at odds with Ms Ps or Mr Ps expectations  at the time it was 
sold, its possible Ms P or Mr P might have raised  this with B&B or reconsidered their 
decisions. But they instead paid policy premiums for a number of years. Overall, Im not 
persuaded Ms P or Mr P wouldve found  the cost unacceptable if they had been  given  the 
exact figure for each policy at the point at which they agreed to it.
The first policy excluded  claims  relating to illness  for which Mr P had symptoms before the 
policy start, recurring injury or illness returning in the first 12 months of the policy  and illness 
or injury resulting from health issues that occurred in the 12 months  before the policy start 
and had been medically treated. In the light of what the mortgage application said about the 
policy excluding known  medical conditions, I think Ms P and Mr P likely had a general 
understanding of the nature of most of these medical exclusions, such that more detailed 
information wouldnt have  significantly  altered their view of them  except they might not 
have understood  that a recurring  illness or injury  returning in the first 12 months wouldnt be 
covered. But Mr P was in good health  at the first sale and didnt have any recurring illnesses 
or injuries.  So, with all this in mind, I dont think better information about  the first policys 
medical exclusions wouldve affected Ms P and Mr Ps decision to take it.
Ref: DRN67607577The second  policy  would exclude disability claims resulting  from any health issue  for which  
Ms P had received advice  or treatment from a medical practitioner in the 12 months before 
the policy start, unless  the policy had been  in force for at least  two years and there had been 
two years in a row without medical treatment or advice for that issue  or any related issue.  I 
dont think Ms P wouldve thought this much different to what  she expected, given what  the 
policy declaration  shed signed  had said about how the policy wouldnt cover claims directly 
related to any health issue  shed had in the previous 12 months.
Aside from the first policys exclusion of recurring health issues, which  Ive discussed above, 
possibly the most significant differences between what Ms P and Mr P thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The second policy would  exclude  claims relating to any health  issue that before the 
policy start Ms P knew or shouldve known  about, unless the policy  had been in force  for 
at least two years and there had been  two years in a row without medical treatment  or 
advice for that issue or any related issue;
The second policy limited, and in some situations excluded, unemployment cover if Ms P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The second policy paid the benefit for unemployment or disability for up to 12 months - 
rather than the remaining  mortgage  term; and
The second policys requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Ms P be 
stopped from doing  her job, or any a similar  job, and also be stopped from doing any 
paid work her experience, education or training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Ms P and Mr P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the PPI in 
each case wasnt as good as they thought  and they might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in each  sale,  might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms P and Mr P from 
taking the PPI.
But, the evidence  about Ms P and Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of the sales  shows  in 
each case the PPI wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them.  Each of them was eligible for the 
benefits of the policy  under which they were insured, and the policies provided cover  that, 
despite their limitations  and exclusions,  couldve proved valuable to Ms P and Mr P should 
the insured risks have become a reality.
Except in certain  circumstances,  Ms P wouldnt have  been able to claim on the second  
policy for health issues she knew or shouldve known about before the policy start. But her 
most recent health  issues occurred over 15 years  earlier and Ive nothing to suggest  they,  or 
any earlier issues, had caused  her problems since  and Ive nothing  to suggest Ms P had 
any reason at the time of the sale to think this might change in future. With all this in mind, I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion wouldve put Ms P off taking the cover.
Ive already explained why I dont think knowing more about  the other medical exclusions of 
either policy wouldve  made a difference to Ms P or Mr P. I also havent seen any evidence  
to suggest they wouldve been  caught by any of the other significant exclusions  Ms P was 
in full time employment  when she took the second  policy, for example. So, taking into 
account all Ive said above, I think Ms P and Mr P still had good reasons to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN67607578The policies didnt  exclude back pain or mental health conditions  or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on these 
grounds than would have applied to other  disability claims.  And I think its unlikely Ms P or 
Mr P would have expected to make a successful  disability claim without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim on the first policy, Mr P needed to be totally  unable  to do his usual 
job and not be doing any other work.  I dont  think this is likely to be too different to what  he 
wouldve expected.  It seems unlikely he wouldve thought hed be able to claim if he were  
still working, whether  that be in his normal job or any other  job. Also,  if Mr P was disabled  
the policy benefit could be paid for as long as the policy and mortgage remained in force.
If Ms P had known she could only claim for disability  on the second policy if she were  not 
only stopped from doing her job, or any a similar  job, but also stopped from doing any paid 
work her experience,  education or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have 
played into her thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given her pause for 
thought  although given  her circumstances and the limited other means  she had to make 
repayments if she wasnt working, on balance I think she would still have been interested  in 
taking the cover.  
B&B may not have  told Ms P that any claim she made for disability or unemployment  on the 
second policy would be limited to a 12-month  period. This may have differed from what she 
expected and might have  hoped for. But Ms Ps sickness  and redundancy entitlements  were 
significantly less than 12 months income. In those circumstances,  I consider it likely  Ms P 
would still have thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments would have 
been of benefit to her and would help her manage the consequences should she be unable  
to work due to disability  or unemployment  in the circumstances covered by the policy.  The 
policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, couldve helped reduce  Ms Ps outgoings  at a 
difficult and uncertain  time and helped ensure her home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Ms P and Mr P would  still have  taken the policies. The policies were  sufficiently  close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if Ms P or Mr P were unable to work  due to accident or sickness  
or if Ms P lost her job. In the circumstances, I consider  it more  likely than not that Ms P and 
Mr P wouldve  taken  the policies in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms P and Mr Ps representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in each sales process.  In those circumstances, DISP  App 3 says it should 
be presumed Ms P and Mr P would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN67607579Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms P and 
Mr Ps circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
they found themselves in in as a result of the sales was, each time, the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms P and Mr P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when  the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including they own comments that they would not 
have taken the policies. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms P and Mr P in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies.
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities in each case, its more  likely than not that in each case 
they would  have still taken the PPI had they been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  
information about the PPI they were  buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable in those  circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Ms P and Mr P 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Ms P and Mr P think B&B misrepresented the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contracts, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Ms P and Mr P, in the way it did, 
was, each time, insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect 
it to have met at the time of each sale when providing information about an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Ms P and Mr Ps representative says a court might take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contracts to Ms P and Mr P and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms P and Mr P in a better position than if everything had happened  as 
it should have  done.
Ref: DRN676075710my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6760757