K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy at the same  time as they applied  for a mortgage  in 2001 
in one of the banks branches.  When they applied for a further advance in 2002  they also 
protected those  repayments with PPI. The cover  was in Mr Ts sole name and gave him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs T 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they were just applying for a mortgage and didnt agree to any PPI. I cant  
know what was discussed in the meeting but Ive thought carefully  about  Mr and Mrs Ts 
comments and looked at the paperwork from the sale. I think  it was clear the PPI was a 
separate product to their mortgage and further advance. I say this as they signed a separate 
PPI application  form and direct debit mandate for both sales. Mr T argues that isnt that 
problem with PPI  no one knew what they were signing  for. But I think  its reasonable to 
expect them to have  checked they understood what they were agreeing to - before signing. 
And there was nothing  on the forms that I think could  reasonably  have led them  to believe  
the PPI was mandatory. So, overall, I think Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional 
and Mr and Mrs T chose  to take it out for Mr T. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr T to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances in 2001 and 2002, I think 
that it was. 
Mr T told us he was entitled to at least 12 months full pay if he was sick. But this is an 
unusually high level of sick pay so I dont think I can rely on his statement without some 
supporting documentation. I say this as Mr T is trying to remember  something from 18 years  
ago, so its possible hes honestly mistaken. This means I need to decide  if what  hes said is 
more likely than not. He hasnt been  able to tell us how long hed been in his role  
answering maybe years  on his questionnaire  - and the level of benefit he describes is 
unusually generous. 
I requested supporting documentation. But as its so long ago Mr T cant provide any. 
However, it seems his employer from the time is still trading. So it seems it should be 
possible for Mr T to ask it to provide  some  comment on its sick pay policy  as it applied to him 
at the time. Without this I dont  think  its safe to assume Mr T had such  a generous  sick pay 
benefit that he had no need for PPI. Plus, the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to his work 
Ref: DRN60302412benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident,  sickness  or unemployment 
claim. It wouldve protected  any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial 
security. 
Mr T says family would have helped  but thats  not suitable alternative protection,  its not 
guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change. They  were  borrowing quite large  sums 
over a long period, secured on their home.  And the effects of not keeping up the repayments 
could have been serious for them. So, overall,  I think the PPI would have been useful for 
Mr and Mrs T if Mr T was sick or lost his job. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs T all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. I dont know at what point the cost was made clear in 2001  or 2002, but the PPI 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  And I dont know  that the bank pointed 
out the main things  the policy didnt cover. But Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected  by 
any of the main exclusions. So I dont  think better  information about the PPI wouldve  
changed their mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs T have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.  
Mr T also asked  why his case is different to anyone elses.  I can only comment here on this 
complaint and its individual merits - but I would add that each case  varies for a number of 
reasons including, but not limited to, the credit  product the PPI covers;  how the policy  was 
sold; the price; the terms and conditions; and the customers  circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030241