K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Zenith Insurance Plc handled  his motor insurance claim poorly.
References to Zenith include  the actions of its agents.
background
In November 2018 Mr Ms vehicle was damaged  in a collision. He claimed for its repair  on 
his Zenith  van insurance policy.  Hes unhappy  with how the claim was handled. 
Mr Ms made  a number of complaint points.  These  included the following. Repairs  took too 
long. One hadnt been done at all. The repairer  had caused additional  damage.  Zenith took 
too long to address these concerns. He had to keep chasing it for progress. All this caused  
him distress and inconvenience   leading to him taking time off work.   
Zenith agreed to sort out some of the additional  damage Mr M had reported. It paid a cash  
settlement for the repairs he said hadnt been done.  It accepted it had taken too long to deal 
with his concerns.  It offered him £200  compensation for that. Mr M doesnt think  thats 
enough. He wants  extra compensation.
Our Investigator  said Zenith had caused unnecessary delay.  He also thought its 
communication with Mr M had been  poor. But he felt its offer of £200  compensation was 
enough to recognise what had gone wrong. Mr M didnt accept that. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Zenith  
pay Mr M any additional compensation or do anything different.
Zenith accepts it took longer to do the original repairs  than would usually be expected.  It 
says that was because some  parts  werent  available  it had to wait for delivery of them. Ive 
no reason to doubt what it says about  that. In any event it seems Mr M was provided with a 
courtesy vehicle for at least  some of that time. So that will have reduced the impact of any 
delay. 
Mr M feels he was forced into paying  the policy excess before he had a chance to inspect  
the vehicle. Its not clear  what happened  here. But he would have to pay the excess anyway. 
So I cant see that he lost out financially by being  asked to pay it before hed seen the 
repairs. 
When Mr M received the vehicle back he was unhappy for a number of reasons. Ive outlined  
some of them above. Zenith agreed  to rectify issues with the bumper  and tow bar. It paid a 
cash settlement to Mr M for the outstanding repair. Its not clear why that didnt happen 
during the original repairs. Its possible  Mr M didnt initially report  it as part of the claim or 
that he did but Zenith failed to note it. In any event it agreed to include it as part of the claim.  
Zenith didnt agree to sort out reported additional damage to a seat and gear stick. Its 
engineer felt these  were  more likely caused by wear  and tear rather than by Zeniths 
repairer. Based on what Ive seen that seems  a fair and reasonable decision. 
Ref: DRN64343462So Zenith, once  it did address  the issues, responded in a fair and reasonable way. However 
there was an unnecessary delay between Mr M reporting them and it taking any action. 
Zenith accepts it was responsible for that  offering £200 compensation. Mr M says thats 
not enough. He says the experience was so stressful he had to take eight days  off work. 
I accept the situation  would  have  caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. He had to 
make a number of calls.  His vehicle  wasnt  in perfect condition and had some outstanding  
issues. It had to go to the repairer again  for a short while. But it doesnt  seem the situation 
was so severe that it would reasonably stop him from working.  And the vehicle, despite a 
few cosmetic issues, was usable. £200 seems enough to recognise the unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
Overall there was some delay. Some was Zeniths fault, some perhaps  wasnt. There  were 
some issues  outstanding following the initial repairs. Excepting the time it took Zenith dealt 
with those fairly and reasonably. There was some  unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
for Mr M. But not enough for me to say Zeniths  offer of £200  isnt enough. So Im not making 
it pay him any extra or do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Zenith  Insurance Plc pay Mr M anything  extra  
or do anything differently.  Its offered him £200.  Thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So my final decision is that it should pay him £200 if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6434346