K821x#15complaint
Mr F says a new car he acquired  via a Personal  Contract Plan (PCP) with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In March 2017 Mr F entered into a four year PCP with MBFS for a new car.
In May 2017  the car had a problem with its steering column and it required new steering  
column motors to be fitted.  
In September  2017 Mr F reported damage to the trim above the pedals. This was repaired 
by the dealership later that month.
In November 2017 Mr F reported an issue  with rattling noises within the car. He said there  
was a rattle from the drivers seat that got louder when the car was driven  at speed. The car 
went in for investigation  but the dealership was unable to replicate the rattle  so it was 
returned to Mr F. He was asked to keep a record of the issue  and so be able to demonstrate 
it should the problem persist.
In January 2018 Mr F reported that the issues with the rattling from the drivers seat had 
persisted. The dealership  were again unable to replicate the problem but decided  as a 
precaution to remove and replace the trim panel on the backrest of the passenger seat.
When Mr F took the car in for its annual service, in March 2018, he again  raised  the issue 
with the rattling  seat. A repair was carried out to the seat in an effort  to fix the ongoing 
problem. Unfortunately the car sustained damage to its paintwork prior to it being returned  to 
Mr F. The car was subject to a re-spray later that month.
At the end of March 2018 Mr F emailed the dealership  and said the rattle  was still present. 
He also reported  problems with clicking noises when steering the car and it was returned to 
the dealership  in April 2018 and the faults  were replicated. A new headrest  was fitted  to the 
drivers seat and the car returned.
Mr F says the faults with the rattles persisted and in September 2018 he made a formal 
complaint to MBFS. MBFS said it would investigate.
Later in September Mr F complained to MBFS that multiple issues  with the car had returned 
despite earlier repairs. He said he was again  having  problems  with the cars steering column 
and that there were  rattles from the dash and drivers seat. Mr F explained that all these 
problems were intermittent in nature. Mr F later raised a problem with the steering wheel 
clicking when being turned.
Checks were carried  out on the car but no issues could be found nor could the noises be 
replicated. Felt was applied to try and resolve any rattles in the dashboard. 
Mr F asked  to reject the car. 
MBFS said that it couldnt support Mr Fs request to reject the car. It said it hadnt been  
possible to replicate the problems reported  by Mr F and it thought that the earlier repairs  had 
been successful.  MBFS said that it had taken  more than six months for these issues  to arise 
Ref: DRN60399922and they hadnt been present  at the point  of sale. It offered Mr F £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr F was unhappy at MBFSs view and said there were  still outstanding issues  with the car 
which were:
The steering  columns  motors  not working intermittently
The intermittent drivers seat rattle
The steering  wheel  clicking intermittently
The front windows intermittently not going up and down properly
MBFS agreed to arrange for the car to be independently inspected  for these issues  and a 
report prepared. This inspection occurred in November 2018 and the independent  engineer 
said, after carrying out a 10 mile road test, he could find no faults  with the car and had been  
unable to replicate  the rattling  and other  noises complained  of by Mr F. The engineer 
recorded that the faults complained of were relatively trivial but presumably would be 
irritating.
MBFS said that in light of this report it wasnt able to uphold  Mr Fs complaint about the 
quality of the car. Mr F complained to this service. Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Fs 
complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Mr F had been able to provide recordings of the 
seat rattling and steering column clicking and he could confirm the noises were present.
Our adjudicator said that he accepted Mr Fs evidence that the problems were  sporadic and 
this meant  that it wouldve  been difficult for them to be replicated by the independent  
engineer in his test. Our adjudicator also said that looking  at the time-line  of the number of 
times the car had been to the garage  for similar  or related problems that he thought this was 
for a higher  than normal number of times for a new car.
Our adjudicator said that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015  the car must be of 
satisfactory condition. And satisfactory  condition  means they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account  any description, price  and other 
relevant circumstances.  He said that as this was a new car a reasonable person would 
expect it to be fault free.
Our adjudicator said that on evidence he thought it was clear  the rattling  issue  had persisted 
since November 2017. And although there  had been times the noise couldnt be replicated 
there had been  other times when it had. There had been attempts at repairs but these hadnt 
worked. The repair to the steering column  had been carried  out in the first two months.
Our adjudicator said that it would be fair for Mr F to reject the car and for it to be collected; 
for the agreement to be shown as settled on his credit  file; for his deposit  of £500 to be 
returned with interest  and for MBFS to pay him £300  as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by repeatedly taking the car to the dealership.
Our adjudicator said that he wouldnt ask MBFS to reimburse Mr F his payments under the 
agreement as Mr F had been  able to have fair use of the car. 
MBFS disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. It said there  had only been one minor 
repair to the steering column and that Mr F hadnt  been able to demonstrate any further 
issues with this. Neither had the dealership or the independent inspection been able to 
replicate any problems. MBFS said it believed the repair had been successful the first time.
Ref: DRN60399923It said that other than the repair to the steering column there had only once been a rattle  
identified and the headrest had been  replaced. This wasnt  raised  until after six months had 
passed since Mr F had acquired  the car and there  was no evidence to link this back to the 
point of sale. This issue was repaired under the cars warranty.
The felt strip had been added to the car as a precautionary measure following reports of a 
seat noise which couldnt be replicated. MBFS said the issues were minor and there was no 
evidence they were persistent.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  the car must be of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. And satisfactory  quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject  the 
car. And where a car is supplied under a finance agreement then its the finance company, 
in this case MBFS, who is responsible for dealing with the fault.
Here the car was new at the point of sale and I think a reasonable person would expect the 
car to have been  fault free at the point of sale and to remain fault free for a reasonable 
period of time.
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Mr F has been complaining  about  the car 
rattling since November  2017. He has also been clear that the problem wasnt constant  but 
intermittent. And a fault that arises  sporadically is difficult to diagnose. Ive seen that MBFS 
says the rattle noise has only been identified once  but I have also seen an email dated 
February 2019 from the Service Team Manager at the dealership confirming  that they had 
witnessed the intermittent noise from your vehicle but have  yet to successfully remedy  it 
despite 3 visits  to us. So I think the noise was noted  more  than once when raised  by Mr F 
with the dealership.
I also think that there were repeated efforts to fix the rattle, for instance by changing the 
headrest and fitting the felt trim. These dont appear  to have been successful as the cause 
of the rattle  hasnt been identified.
Mr F has provided  recordings to this service of the noises and Ive seen  that the 
independent engineer listened to a recording of the noise from the steering wheel. He 
described it as appearing to be a significant noise evident on every movement of the 
steering wheel. He was unable to replicate this noise when he test drove the care.  
Ref: DRN60399924MBFS raised a query as to why Mr F was able record the noises when he couldnt 
demonstrate the problem  to the dealership. But I dont think  this is surprising given that the 
problems raised with the car are all intermittent and as Mr F has the car with him it is more 
likely he would be able to capture the problem as it happened. When a problem is sporadic 
it may simply not be possible to be able to take the car straight to the dealership for them  to 
hear the noises  when  they start. 
I appreciate the independent engineer wasnt able to recreate the noises, or the issues  with 
the steering wheel and front windows during the extended test drive, but looking at the 
nature of the complaints  this isnt surprising or unusual.  I dont think  this independent report  
is in itself sufficient  for me to say the car doesnt have the faults  complained of. Im aware 
that the rattling seat has been  heard  by the dealership  and there was an identified fault with 
the steering wheel column. 
Ive seen that the cars steering wheel is designed  to fold up into a high position for ease of 
exit when the ignition is switched off. It then lowers itself into its normal  driving position 
when the ignition  is switched on. Mr F says that on occasions this doesnt happen and the 
steering wheel has to be moved using the column  control switch. So while I accept  the car 
was driveable I think it would be reasonable to think that an intermittent problem with the 
steering column  was irritating  and unacceptable for a new car.
Repairs were carried out on the steering columns  motors two months after Mr F acquired 
the car. I think its reasonable for Mr F to have  expected this to resolve  the problem even if 
this repair  was minor. Im satisfied that its reasonable to conclude these repairs  werent 
successful as Mr F has continued to experience problems with the steering. 
So while I accept the issues with the car are trivial  in nature in that the car was usable I 
dont think that its fair to expect Mr F to put up with them, or to say that his expectations  of 
the car were too high. It was a brand new car and so its reasonable to expect it to be fault 
free for a reasonable period of time. Im upholding his complaint and in light of the failed 
repairs I think Mr F is now entitled to reject the car.
Im asking MBFS to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr F.
Mark the agreement  as settled on Mr Fs credit  file and ensure there is no adverse 
information recorded.
Reimburse Mr F his £500 deposit together with interest at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  of repeatedly taking 
the car to the dealership.
As Mr F has been able to use the car Im not requiring that any of his repayments under the 
agreement are reimbursed.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Fs complaint. Im asking Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr F.
Ref: DRN60399925Mark the agreement  as settled on Mr Fs credit  file and ensure there is no adverse 
information recorded.
Reimburse Mr F his £500 deposit together with interest at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  of repeatedly taking 
the car to the dealership.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6039992