K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms C say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
Background
Mr and Ms C bought a regular premium policy alongside a loan in 1996. Mr and Ms C bought a 
single premium PPI policy  alongside a loan in 1997 and 1999.  The loans  were  in joint names,  
whilst the PPI covered  just Mr C.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms C say they were told that they had to take out PPI in order to be accepted  for the 
loans. So Ive looked first at whether  Nationwide made  it clear  to Mr and Ms C that they had 
a choice, and obtained their consent,  in taking out the policies. 
No documentation  exists for the loan taken with regular premium PPI in 1996. Its not 
straightforward to decide a case when there  are no documents  available  from the time of the 
sale, as is the case  here.  The sale happened, at the least, over 22 years ago, so Im not 
surprised that neither  Nationwide nor Mr and Ms C have been able to provide any of the 
specific sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened. So whilst acknowledging that things could  have happened  
just as Mr and Ms C said they did, considering how long ago the sale was in these cases,  I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points for this 
policy. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan agreements that Mr and Ms C signed to get the 
loans in 1997 and 1999. The credit agreements describe the PPI as, Optional Credit 
Insurance. The agreements explain  the cost of the PPI and show how that adds to the total 
monthly payment.  So, in order for me to find it more likely that Nationwide  failed to make  it 
clear to Mr and Ms C that they had a choice about taking the policies,  Id have to think it 
more likely that Mr and Ms C were told something  that was different in substance and spirit 
to what was written on the loan agreements.  
Without any evidence  to support Mr and Ms Cs testimony, I think its more likely that PPI 
was presented as optional  for all three  policies  and Mr and Ms C chose to take it on each 
occasion and thats how it came  to be applied to their loan accounts, even if they do not 
remember that now.
Ref: DRN69507592Nationwide says the policies were sold without  a formal recommendation. Ive been  shown  
no documentary evidence  that suggests  that the policies were sold on an advised basis. So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr and Ms C clear enough  information about the policies, so they 
could decide if they wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would  have stopped Mr and Ms C from 
buying the policies. I explain why I say that below. 
Mr C was eligible for the policies. And there  are things that sometimes arent  covered  by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr C wouldnt have been affected by those things. 
And I think that Mr and Ms C had, most  likely, a need for the cover the policies could 
provide. In saying  this Ive considered what Mr and Ms C told us about  their circumstances 
at the time of the sales. Mr C told us he had only basic sick pay and no other  means he 
could have relied on if anything went wrong.  The 1996 policy would have paid the loan 
amount for up to 24 months in the event that Mr C was too ill to work, or for up to 12 months 
in the event that Mr C lost his job. And the PPI policies sold to Mr and Ms C in 1997 and 
1999 could have paid out for the full term of the loans in the event Mr C was too ill to work, 
and for up to 12 months in the event  he lost his job. So I think  Mr and Ms C could have found 
all three policies useful.
 
All of the policies  appear to have  been flexible in that Mr and Ms C could have cancelled the 
regular premium policy had they wished to, and they may have got back  a pro rata refund of 
the PPI premium if they cancelled the single  premium  policies  early.  So I dont think  this 
meant the policies werent right for them. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think any of the three policies were unaffordable  to Mr 
and Ms C or that they had a need to keep costs down. And whilst I could understand it if Mr 
and Ms C thought  now that the single  premium policies sold in 1997  and 1999 were 
expensive, I think the costs were set out clearly on the agreements. And given how long the 
policies could have  paid out for, most likely,  if Mr and Ms C made a successful claim, they 
could have got back quite a bit more than they paid for them.  So I dont think that in this case 
the cost made the policies unsuitable for Mr and Ms C.
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put Mr and Ms C off taking out any of the three  PPI policies  they were  sold. 
Ref: DRN69507593my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Cs complaint and I make no award  
against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6950759