K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a used car he got with finance  provided by FirstRand Bank Limited 
(trading as MotoNovo  Finance) is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 19 November 2019. A copy of this decision is attached and it forms part of 
my final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. I asked both parties  to 
let me have  any further comments or information  by 3 December 2019.  
MotoNovo has not responded.  Mr M says MotoNovo should pay more compensation. He 
acknowledges he didnt  use cruise  control much  - but says this is a feature he paid for and 
its something he should have been able to use if he wanted  to. Hes also concerned  that the 
wiring issue was safety related and says he used  the car a lot less because of this.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given careful thought to what Mr M has said. But, I am not persuaded its reasonable 
to find MotoNovo should compensate Mr M further solely on the basis that he was unable to 
use the cruise control feature that he didnt really use anyway. For the reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision, I accept Mr Ms use of the car is likely  to have been impaired 
because it was faulty and that probably  caused  Mr M distress and inconvenience.  But I 
remain of the view that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
I appreciate Mr M was worried about driving the car and considers he drove the car less as a 
result. But, Id have  to be persuaded that he was unable to use the car for a significant 
period as a direct result of defects  in order to increase the amount of compensation or fairly  
find that MotoNovo  should refund some of Mr Ms monthly payments.  
I can see that Mr M was probably reluctant to drive the car with this ongoing engine issue  
and drove  it less as a consequence. But, I am satisfied he was able to use the car and I am 
not persuaded there are enough fair and reasonable grounds for me to reasonably  require 
MotoNovo to provide a refund or pay additional  compensation,  in all of the circumstances. 
Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view that the outcome set out in my 
provisional decision seems fair overall  so I am unable to reasonably  depart  from my 
provisional conclusions.  I realise this may come as a disappointment to Mr M, but he doesnt 
have to accept  what Ive said - in which case  it remains open  to Mr M to pursue this matter  
by other  means  should he wish to do so. 
  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint. I require FirstRand  Bank 
Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance) to
Ref: DRN665148221.arrange to have the car repaired at no cost to Mr M;
2.refund  the cost of any relevant diagnostic checks - on provision of paperwork to show  
that cost has been incurred  by Mr M; and  
3.pay Mr M £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66514823copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that a car he got with finance provided by FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance)  is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr M got this car with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) in November 2016. He says a warning light 
illuminated after hed driven it about 8,000 miles.  He took the car to a main  dealership to be checked 
and was told theres a fault with the cruise  control  which will cost over £1,000 to fix. Mr M contacted 
MotoNovo in the summer of 2018 to complain. 
MotoNovo told Mr M it would need some evidence  to show  that this fault was present at the outset. It 
suggested he could obtain  an independent experts opinion and said it would refund the cost of that if 
the expert concluded that this car had an inherent problem. 
Mr M contacted  one of the automotive engineers recommended by the organisation MotoNovo 
referred to. He spoke to an engineer who said an inspection was unnecessary  as a car of this age 
and mileage shouldnt have this problem and offered to provide a desktop report  saying that. Mr M 
couldnt afford  to pay upfront  for a report so he got in touch  with MotoNovo again and asked it to pay 
the experts fee. MotoNovo didnt think this was sufficient to show that the car has an inherent issue. It 
wouldnt pay for the report  but offered to look at the complaint again if Mr M obtained more  evidence.  
Mr M says this has caused financial problems.  He wasnt  in a position  to pay for an experts report but 
the car is not durable enough - and the expert he spoke to agreed thats clear  based simply on the 
parts that need repairs and the mileage  alone. Mr M thinks its wrong for an issue like this to develop  
so soon and hes worried there may be safety  implications.  He wanted MotoNovo  to accept  liability 
and pay for the repairs so he referred the matter to our service.  
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. He doesnt think  parts  like this should fail in a car 
thats only five years old and had covered just over 33,000 miles. He considers this suggests the car 
wasnt durable enough. He recommends the complaint  should  be upheld and MotoNovo  should  pay 
for repairs.
MotoNovo doesnt agree.  It says this car had over 25,000 miles  on the clock when Mr M got it and he 
was able to drive  another 8,000 miles without any problem. It thinks this shows the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and theres no evidence that the fault was present at the 
outset. MotoNovo asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter.  
Mr M told us he wants  to reject the car now as hes lost faith in it and in MotoNovo. He thinks  
MotoNovo should take the car back, refund  some payments and pay compensation. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
MotoNovo provided this car to Mr M under a finance agreement. So, it was required to ensure that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
Quality of goods includes  fitness for purpose and durability, amongst other things.  The level of quality 
thats to be considered satisfactory will depend on individual circumstances. But, it is generally 
reasonable to consider  the age, cost and mileage at the point  of supply  in the case  of a car. 
This car was just over 3 years old with about 25,000 miles on the clock when Mr M got it near the end 
of 2016. So, I dont think he could reasonably expect it to be of the same standard  as a brand  new car 
- as some parts were  likely to be worn and might need to be repaired or replaced over time. There 
Ref: DRN66514824doesnt seem  to be any dispute that a main dealer told Mr M that the car has a fault and components 
need to be replaced at a cost of over £1,000. MotoNovo says its for Mr M to prove this issue was 
present when  he got the car under the CRA - as he had the car about  20 months before the problem 
appeared. 
Section 19 (14) of the CRA provides that if goods are of unsatisfactory quality within six months of 
supply then theyre taken not to have been of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. But section 
19(15) goes on to say this presumption doesnt apply  if its established the goods were or satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply  or its application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or how 
they failed to conform [with the contract].        . 
I must take relevant law (amongst other things) into account but I make my decision based on whats 
fair and reasonable overall. I dont think theres any dispute that this car has a fault. So, the question 
for me to determine  here is whether this is likely to have been present or developing at the point  of 
supply. I appreciate MotoNovo doesnt  think theres enough  evidence to prove  that - it says Mr M 
needs to provide an experts report. But, my role is to look at all of the available evidence  and - 
provided Im satisfied theres enough  evidence to reach a reasonable decision - determine  whats 
most likely in all of the circumstances.  
Where evidence  is incomplete or inconclusive (as some  of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most  likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
Looking at the diagnostic  check that Mr M has provided, I think  a fairly major  electrical component (or 
components) seems to have  failed in this car. Im satisfied the diagnostic check was carried  out by a 
main dealer and it said repairs are urgent. I have spoken to the relevant  dealership. I understand a 
control unit and wiring  loom need to be replaced  but the dealer was unable to say for certain that this 
is due to a manufacturing defect.  
I am satisfied  that Mr M had only driven  the car about 8,000 miles when this issue arose - which  is 
considerably less than the 20,000 miles  an average motorist is likely to have travelled over the same 
period. I dont think the components that need  to be repaired  here are likely  to be subject to the usual 
sort of wear  and tear that service or other consumable  items experience. And I cant  fairly find its 
unreasonable to expect these components to last for some time - certainly  more than the 33,000 
miles that this car had covered. 
On balance, I find it difficult  to see why these particular components would have failed so soon if there 
was not an inherent issue present at the point  the car was supplied. And I am minded to agree with 
our investigator that its more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality  when Mr M got it. 
I understand Mr M wants to reject the car now. Ive got no doubt  this process  has been frustrating  for 
him - and its been disappointing to have  to drive this car with a constant warning  light illuminated  and 
a dinging alarm. Ive seen  nothing however to show that the fault has impacted on Mr Ms use of the 
car (to a significant  extent) or indicate  that this is a safety  issue. 
Under the CRA a supplier like MotoNovo  would generally  be given the chance to fix the problem in 
this situation. And I am minded to find it is fair and reasonable to give MotoNovo that opportunity, in 
all of the circumstances here. Mr M has told me he needs the car for transport  so hes very worried 
about how long repairs will take. I think this concern is understandable and Id expect MotoNovo  to 
liaise with Mr M to arrange for the car to be repaired  as soon as reasonably practicable and with the 
minimum of inconvenience to him.  
Mr M has mentioned  in correspondence that he doesnt use cruise  control much so I think the impact 
of this function  being  unavailable  is likely  to have been minimal. I accept however that this issue is 
likely to have caused Mr M upset and inconvenience and I think  MotoNovo  should  pay £250 
compensation to reflect that. 
Ref: DRN66514825I understand Mr M didnt pay for an experts report. But, I am satisfied that he wouldnt have needed  
to arrange for diagnostic checks if he hadnt been  supplied with a faulty car. And I am minded  to find it 
fair that MotoNovo  should  refund the cost of diagnostic  checks - on provision of relevant  
invoices/proof of payment. 
I now invite  both parties to consider what Ive said and let me have any further comments  or 
information by the date below. After that date Ill consider all of the available  evidence and make  my 
final decision.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 3 December 2019,  my 
provisional decision  is that I am minded to uphold  this complaint. And I am inclined to require 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance) to
1.arrange to have  this car repaired at no cost to Mr M;
2.refund the cost of any relevant diagnostic checks - on provision of paperwork to show that 
cost has been incurred by Mr M; and  
3.pay Mr M £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN6651482