K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs E complain, via their representative, about unsatisfactory and incomplete  work 
carried out on their home by Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited following their claim for 
damage to their roof under their building insurance  policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs E made a claim for storm damage to their roof and repairs  were  carried out. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt  think the work was completed  satisfactorily and said it was incomplete. 
Lloyds agreed  and appointed a new contractor to rebuild their gable  wall. The decoration 
work was cash settled.
Mr and Mrs E were  concerned that movement was damaging the front of their home and 
they identified  some cracking. Lloyds sent a surveyor and building contractor, but they found  
no progressive movement to the front of the house.  The report  said the gable wall was re-
built to the original line and theres  no fresh cracking. Lloyds said it carried out the other  work  
and paid Mr and Mrs E £50 compensation for the lack of communication  around this visit.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the assessment. The investigator said more  was needed to find 
out whether further and remedial works are required to their home.  She recommended that 
an independent expert report be paid for by Lloyds with both parties  bound  by the outcome.
Mr and Mrs E agreed with the investigator and appointed a loss assessor.  Lloyds disagreed 
saying this wasnt standard practice for our service unless theres  expert evidence on both 
sides and our service cant determine which opinion should be considered.  It said 
Mr and Mrs E still hadnt obtained  any expert advice in support of their concerns about their 
home.
The investigator said Lloyds provided  an incomplete scope of work  and hadnt  made  a full 
repair. She said an independent expert should say if previous work  was satisfactory, with 
both parties bound by the findings.  She said the burden of proof shouldnt lie with 
Mr and Mrs E because  Lloyds is disputing the original evidence provided by one of its 
experts. Lloyds disagreed  saying all the work has been completed at the property and initial 
problems resolved. It said the burden  of proof is on Mr and Mrs E to evidence the problems. 
Mr and Mrs E recently obtained a report from a loss assessor and surveyor who said the 
rebuilt gable has not been reconstructed to an acceptable standard and the front elevation  
brickwork has probably moved  and then been  repointed by Lloyds second contractor. The 
surveyor said the front entrance door and window should be reinstated  and bricks  matched. 
The investigator said Lloyds should  pay for this report and arrange for previous repairs  to be 
put right. Lloyds  got its contractors to respond  to the report  and they said the choice of bricks 
was discussed  with Mr and Mrs E, but may not be suitable for their location.  It said the 
repairs had been  carried out to a reasonable standard.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked closely  at the handling and 
decisions taken by Lloyds  on Mr and Mrs Es claim to see if it has treated them fairly.
Ref: DRN62685732I can understand Mr and Mrs Es concern about the front of their house. Theyve seen some 
damage and want  to know if further repairs  can be made.  Lloyds surveyor  sent a report  
saying theres no movement and the repaired gable remains in the correct position.
Its unfortunate there were delays of many months  during which time the parties  disputed  
payment for a further expert report. However,  Im pleased that Mr and Mrs E have obtained  
an expert report. Their  surveyor states  that he is unhappy with the cosmetic and structural  
state the property  has been left in because of poor workmanship by Lloyds contractors. 
   
Where there are differing opinions as to the state of a property we have to be guided by what  
we consider to be the most  reliable expert  evidence.  In this case  I think the detailed 
descriptions and photos  from Mr and Mrs Es surveyors show  likely structural  movement in 
the gable end of their house, which has only been  partially repaired by Lloyds. I think this 
corresponds with the view of Lloyds original surveyor.
I think that the repairs carried out so far by Lloyds contractors havent  dealt with all of the 
underlying issues  of Mr and Mrs Es claim and Lloyds  should instruct contractors to put right 
the problems with the repairs  that have been identified  in Mr and Mrs Es expert report. 
Mr and Mrs Es surveyor said lack of engagement from Lloyds recently has left Mr and Mrs E 
confused and with an unsaleable house.  I think there have been delays and poor 
communication on both sides  and Mr and Mrs E took months to obtain  an expert report. 
Having said that, the problems with repairs and poor workmanship has caused Mr and Mrs E 
unnecessary inconvenience and suffering and Lloyds should pay them £250 compensation 
to reflect  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs E for the cost of the expert  
report they have  obtained and to carry out further  work to Mr and Mrs Es home  to put right 
problems identified in their expert report.  I also require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs E £250 compensation for the poor service the bank has provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6268573