K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited  (LV) gave  them 
incorrect advice about their equity release mortgage. 
They say that as a result they paid extra costs, which theyd like LV to refund..
background
Mr and Mrs B had an equity release mortgage with LV. In early  2016, they wanted to move  
to a property valued  at £140,000. 
There was a maximum amount of loan they could  have in relation  to the value of the 
property (loan to value). In Mr and Mrs Bs case this was 29%.  This meant  that the most 
they could borrow  on a £140,000 property would be £40,600. But Mr and Mrs Bs current 
mortgage balance  was higher than this. So theyd have to repay a lump sum if they wanted  
to go ahead. This lump sum is called a partial repayment.
The amount  borrowers  have to pay back when this happens varies according to their age. 
As Mrs B had a birthday  shortly after the enquiry, LV wrote to say that theyd have to pay 
back £3,733.52  if they moved before her birthday, or £2,491.05 if it was after her birthday. 
Mr B rang LV in May 2016. There had been  a possible valuation concern about  the £140,000  
property theyd been looking at, so Mr B said theyd be better  off looking for something else. 
He told the adviser  theyd  looked at another property, which theyd liked, and he asked  if the 
adviser could give a reasonably accurate figure of what the partial  repayment  figure would 
be on £155,000.  
The adviser said there wouldnt be a partial repayment on a property valued at £155,000. He 
explained that an increase in a property value  would increase the maximum loan allowed. 
He did the calculation of 29% on a property with a value  of £155,000, which meant  that they 
could have a loan balance of £44,950.  The adviser looked at Mr and Mrs Bs current  equity 
release account,  which had three parts. The three parts were all increasing  at a different 
daily rate. But the adviser thought that by the time Mr and Mrs B completed on the new 
property, the balance they owed  LV would still be lower than the £44,950  maximum that they 
could borrow on a £155,000 property.
Mr B said that was good news, and he asked the adviser to get someone to look at the 
property they had in mind, and he provided the address. The adviser said what  hed given 
was a very rough calculation, but Mr B said yes, it was a ball park figure and at least they 
now had some idea rather than not knowing at all. 
But unfortunately Mr and Mrs B couldnt go ahead with the property. They said this meant 
they had to pay £570 in extra  costs. In 2018,  Mr and Mrs B complained to LV. They said they 
wouldnt have had to pay this extra money  if the LV adviser hadnt  given  them the advice he 
did.
LV didnt agree with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  It said that the conversation in May 2016  had 
been about the figures Mr B had asked for. It hadnt been giving Mr and Mrs B advice. 
Mr and Mrs B were  still unhappy and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN65806722The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  She listened to the recording of the 
phone call, and said that it didnt show that LV had given Mr B advice. What the phone  
adviser had done  was to tell Mr B that if the property they wanted to buy was worth  more, 
theyd be able to keep a larger loan with LV.   She explained that it had been  Mr and Mrs Bs 
decision to try to buy the house they did, and it hadnt been  LVs fault the purchase fell 
through.
Mr and Mrs B were  still unhappy. They said LV had definitely given Mr B advice. So LV 
should cover  their costs,  and should  also compensate them  for the six months delay theyd 
had in selling their previous property. Hed told LV he didnt  have enough to pay around 
£3,000 in partial repayment, so it shouldnt have  told him to buy a more expensive property 
at £10,000 more. Both Mr B and his solicitor  had understood that LV would simply be giving 
them another £10,000.
The investigator listened to the 2016  phone call again, and sent a copy to Mr and Mrs B. She 
explained there was nothing  within the call to say LV was going  to lend them  an extra 
£10,000. But in any case, Mr B had been ringing up to say theyd been looking at a house 
which was £10,000  more than the previous  property.  Mr B hadnt  asked about borrowing 
more, and had only asked how much the partial repayment would be. The investigator  
explained that LV wasnt Mr and Mrs Bs financial advisor. It was up to them  to make sure 
they understood their own finances and had enough  to buy properties  they were  looking at.
Mr and Mrs B were  still unhappy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the call 
recording from May 2016.
In that phone call, its clear that what Mr B asked for was reasonably  accurate figures on 
what the partial repayment figure  would be if they went  for a property at £155,000.  Theyd  
already looked  round  a property at that price,  and had liked it. The call handler then went  on 
to do the calculations about  their current borrowing, which was increasing on a daily 
balance, and what the partial  repayment  would be. The conversation  was about arithmetic, 
and I find that LVs call handler didnt  advise Mr and Mrs B. 
I can see how the misunderstanding arose,  because  it was clearly attractive that if they 
bought a property for £140,000, theyd have to pay LV around  £3,000,  but if they bought  a 
property for £155,000, they wouldnt have to pay LV any lump sum. But LVs call handler  
didnt actively recommend this, but just gave Mr B the facts.  And the facts  he gave were 
correct.
Equity release  isnt straightforward,  which is why borrowers have to get legal advice before 
going ahead. Even  though LV wouldnt have  asked for money  back  (a partial repayment) if 
they bought the higher  priced property, it was for Mr and Mrs B, together with any financial 
advisors they had, to work out whether or not they could afford to pay the extra  £15,000 for 
the higher priced property. Ive listened carefully to the phone recording,  and the LV call 
handler didnt  stray  into giving advice when he shouldnt have done.  Nor did he say that LV 
would advance Mr and Mrs B any more money than they already had. 
Ref: DRN65806723For completeness, Ill comment on a further  point raised by Mr and Mrs B, though it doesnt 
affect the outcome of the case.  Theyve said that after the complaint, LV said a free valuation 
would be arranged. But I havent seen any evidence that any further  fees for valuations  were 
paid after that point.
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs B werent  able to go ahead with the property they wanted.  I could 
tell from the phone call that Mr B was enthusiastic about it, and I do appreciate  its 
disappointing to miss out on a property. And equity release can be very complicated. But I 
find that LVs call handler gave Mr B facts, and didnt give advice or mislead him. So I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580672