K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that a car he acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In July 2016 Mr J acquired a used car via a four year hire purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
The car was one year old and had a mileage of 8,000.
Mr J says said when he took possession of the car he noticed there was damage to the cars 
sills which he reported to the dealership. He was told the body-shop would be in touch to 
arrange repairs but it never did. There  was then an issue with the cars steering rack which 
was repaired.
Mr J says that during  the time he has had the car there have been various repairs and 
issues with it including  needing new brake  pads  and discs, a replacement handbrake switch,  
cleaning the DPF and replacing  the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve. In March  2019 
the car broke  down and displayed a drivetrain malfunction message. The car was taken  to a 
local garage who attempted  to find the cause  but a number of fault codes appeared including 
one relating to an error with the EGR.  The engineer attempted to clear  the codes and renew 
the diesel  filter, but the error codes remained.  The engineer advised Mr J that they wouldnt 
be able to diagnose the fault with the car as this would have to be a process of elimination 
due to the number of fault codes that were showing.
Mr J complained to BMWFS about  the quality of the car. He said he would like to reject  it as 
it wasnt fit for purpose. BMWFS investigated  Mr Js complaint but didnt reach a conclusion 
within the eight  weeks permitted. Mr J brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that at the 
point of sale the car had been nearly  new and so a reasonable  person would have expected  
to be able to use it relatively free from defects for a considerable  time. And, although some 
of the issues raised by Mr J about  the car would have related to wear and tear, the drivetrain 
malfunction was evidence of an underlying fault with the car that would have been present or 
developing at the point of sale.
Our investigator said she thought it would be fair for Mr J to reject the car, for the agreement 
to be cancelled and for Mr Js deposit  to be reimbursed. She also recommended  that any 
payments made by Mr J, under the agreement since April 2019, should be returned together 
with £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty 
car.
Mr J agreed with our investigators recommendations but BMWFS disagreed. It said Mr J 
had had the car for over two and half years and driven 32,500 miles. It said there wasnt  
enough evidence  to say the car hadnt been  of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN60166502In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulator's rules, guidance  and standards and codes of practice 
and (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a 
regulated consumer  credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints 
relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under  this type of agreement, and 
so responsible for a complaint  about  their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that under a contract  to supply goods, there  is an 
implied term that "the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".  And the relevant law says that, 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances. So, in a case  involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances to take into account  would include things like the age and the mileage at 
the time of sale and the vehicle's history.  
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition  
and other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom from 
minor  defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality  of the goods.
Here  Ive seen  that car would  be considered  as nearly  new as it was one year old and 
had a mileage  of 8,000.  Looking  at the durability,  although  a reasonable  person  wouldnt  
expect  all the components  of a car to last indefinitely,  I think  that taking  into account  the 
age and use the car had had when  Mr J acquired  it they would  expect  it to be relatively  
fault free for a considerable  time.
Mr J had raised  a number  of issues  with the car but I think  that some  of the items  he has 
raised,  such  as the repairs  to the brakes,  are things  that are considered  to be serviceable  
items.  That means  that with use maintenance  and repairs  will arise  and are an expected  
part of car ownership.
However,  since  March  2019,  the car hasnt  been  usable  and is displaying  a number  of 
fault codes.  The message  illuminated  on the dash  is that there  is a drivetrain  error.
Looking  at the history  of the car Ive seen  that the month  before  Mr J acquired  the car 
there  was an EGR  recall.  Then  in June  2018  the EGR  valve  was replaced  following  a 
second  recall.  The Job card prepared  at the time of repair  reports  that the EGR  valve  
short  code  was showing  as well as the drivetrain  malfunction  message.
In March  2019  the car again  displayed  the drivetrain  malfunction  message  and the 
engineer  who inspected  the car found  a number  of other  fault codes  including  the fault 
code  relating  to the air system  for the EGR.  This would  mean  that its likely  there  is a 
further  error  with the EGR.
Where  evidence  is missing  or contradictory  I have  to decide  what  I think  is the most  likely  
thing  to have  happened.  Here  the evidence  is that car has broken  down  and due to the 
number  of fault codes  being  displayed  will have  to go through  a process  of elimination  to 
be fixed.  However,  one of the fault codes  being  displayed  is related  to the EGR,  a part 
that has already  been  replaced  on two earlier  occasions.  And I think  its reasonable  to 
Ref: DRN60166503consider  that this is not a repair  that would  be expected  to arise  as frequently  as it has 
taking  into account  the age and use of the car. While  I appreciate  Mr J has added  to the 
cars  mileage  the number  of additional  miles  indicates  average  use. It therefore  appears  
more  likely  than not that there  is a recurring  fault with the EGR.
In light of the number  of repairs  required  to the EGR  I think  its more  likely  than not that 
the car has an inherent  problem  with this part and that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality  at the point  of sale.  I also think  that the retailer  has had an opportunity  to repair  
the fault but has been  unable  to do so. So, I think  it would  be fair for Mr J to now reject  
the car and cancel  the agreement  with nothing  further  to pay.
Mr J has been  unable  to use the car since  it broke  down  in March  2019.  So, I think  its fair 
that he is reimbursed  any monthly  payments  with interest  that he has made  since  
April 2019.  He should  also be repaid  his deposit  with interest.  And,  while  I appreciate  that 
not all the faults  he has had with the car arise  from the EGR,  I do think  he has suffered  
unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience  dealing  with a car that wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality.  £300  compensation  is fair and reasonable  in these  circumstances.
Finally,  Mr J has had to pay for the diagnostics  carried  out in March  2019  and it would  be 
fair for BMWFS  to reimburse  this cost once  Mr J provides  it with the invoice.
So, for the reasons  set out above,  Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Im asking BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Reimburse Mr J with any monthly payments made since  April 2019 together  with 
interest at the yearly  rate of 8% from the date of payment  until the date of settlement
Reimburse Mr J his deposit of £5,000 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Pay Mr J £300 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by dealing  
with the faulty  car
Reimburse Mr J the costs of the diagnostics carried  out and the renewed filter 
elements as set out in the March 2019  invoice   copy to be supplied by Mr J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60166504
Ref: DRN6016650