K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) was mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Miss R bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a Personal  Reserve  account  
with a high-street store. She applied for the account and PPI policy in-store.
The wider  background and circumstances  leading up to this complaint, which includes 
Miss Rs circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Rs. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Rs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Allianz made it clear that Miss R didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Allianz  has provided a copy of Miss Rs Personal Reserve 
account application from the time of the sale. Looking at this I can see Miss R completed 
the section to take out PPI by ticking a box as well as indicating  she was the main 
applicant and writing  in her date of birth. This section didnt say or imply she had to take 
out PPI  so if she didnt want the cover she couldve left this section of the form blank.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Miss R knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
Ref: DRN69002782Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R - so it didnt have to check  that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss R enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss R  for example she 
was eligible for the cover  and there  was nothing about her employment circumstances 
that would  have made it difficult for her to claim.
Although Miss R says she had a medical  condition  some time before the policy was 
taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused her to change her mind about  taking out the policy. I say this because 
the exclusion was limited to things Miss R had received treatment  for in the 12 months 
before taking out the policy. But the condition she told us about happened  around nine 
years before the sale and shes not said or implied that she received  further  treatment 
within the 12 months prior to taking out the policy. 
I can see Miss R has also told us about a condition which  happened  after the sale.  But 
by definition this wasnt pre-existing, so she wouldnt have been prevented from making  
a claim for this condition.
Finally there were also no additional restrictions on cover  for mental  health  or back 
problems. 
Overall, I consider that Miss R would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Allianz  should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  Allianz doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN69002783my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6900278