K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
Ms H took out a mortgage in 1999  and a further  advance in 2000.  Ms H took the PPI in 1999 
and it was increased in 2000 to take account  of the additional borrowing. Ms H paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
After doing so, Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has been  able to give me copies of the PPI application forms. The first one is titled 
C&G Payment Protection  Plus Proposal  Form,  completed by hand and signed and dated  
by Ms H. It records  the amount of mortgage borrowed and that the PPI cover was 100% for 
the benefit of Ms H. Ms H has also completed and signed a direct debit mandate instruction 
for her bank to make the monthly payments. 
Lloyds has also been able to provide the same  documents for the further advance in 2000  
which are again  completed by hand and signed and dated by Ms H. If Ms H hadnt  wanted to 
take the PPI then I dont think she would have completed the forms or instructed her bank to 
make the monthly  payments. So I think this shows  Lloyds made  Ms H aware that she had a 
choice about buying the PPI and that she chose to take it. 
I also note that Ms H took another further advance on the mortgage  between the 1999 sale 
and one in 2000. For that sale Ms H didn't increase her PPI amount which would show  that 
she knew she had a choice about doing so. 
Lloyds said it recommended the PPI to Ms H, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time of both of the sales. Shes told us her 
circumstances didn't change between the two dates. 
Ms H has said she was self-employed and because of that, the PPI wasnt right for her. But 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the PPI Lloyds  has been able to give us which  
were in use at the relevant dates for the two sales. And I see the terms for a self-employed 
person to be able to make a claim were  no more difficult than for an employed person. So I 
dont agree Ms Hs self-employed status would have  affected her ability to benefit from the 
policy.  
Ref: DRN62659132The PPI would have  paid out for up to 12 months  if Ms H wasnt  working and had made a 
successful claim. As well as the monthly mortgage  repayments, the policy paid £3.00 for 
every £1,000 borrowed which could have been  used for other  essential  household outgoings 
at what could have  been a difficult time for Ms H. Ms H has also told us she had some 
savings she could have  used. But by having  the policy would  mean her savings could have 
remained intact for longer and kept for their original use or other  emergencies.  
And as Ms H was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments I think the policy would 
have been a benefit to Ms H if she wasnt able to work. A mortgage is a large and long-term 
financial commitment and the penalty  for householders not keeping  up with the mortgage  
repayments is significant  even as severe as losing their home. So I think  the policy  gave 
Ms H a financial  benefit she wouldnt otherwise have had. 
I dont know how the policy  was presented to Ms H and it could have been the case that 
Lloyds could have  explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think  
Ms H would still have bought it as she would have benefitted from the policy if she had made 
a successful claim. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policies didnt cover  a pre-existing 
medical condition  as an example. But Ms H doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
those things. So I dont  think  it would have made a difference to Ms Hs decision to take the 
cover.
Ive taken into account Ms Hs comments,  including what shes  said about being self- 
employed and her other financial means she could have used. But because of what Ive 
said, these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.  
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265913