K821x#15complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have  complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly  refused 
to renew their motor  insurance policy.
Mr M is the main driver on the policy at issue. Mrs M is a named driver.  Shes  taken the lead 
in bringing the complaint but as Mr M is the principal policyholder,  for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mrs Ms comments  as being  Mr Ms.
background
Mr M took out a telematics (black box) policy for his car as part of a multicar policy.  Around 
seven months later he declared  his car as off road (known as SORN) and suspended his 
cover. But around  six weeks later, in November  2018, he asked Admiral  to cover him again 
and it reinstated  his policy. He asked about switching  the black  box back on. Admiral said it 
might be able to reactivate the box but would get back  to him about that. It didn't do so.
In February 2019,  roughly a month before Mr Ms policy was due to renew Admiral told him 
that it wasn't going  to offer to renew  the policy. Mr M didn't think  that was fair and brought his 
complaint to us. He was particularly upset he would need to tell future  insurers  that Admiral 
had declined  to renew his policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 August 2020. For ease I've copied  my provisional  
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it. 
Mr Ms black box gathered data about his driving  and used that to produce a driving  score. 
The policy says that if after any 60 days of continuous monitoring Mr Ms score fell into the 
bottom 5% then Admiral  would contact him to tell him his driving  needed to improve. The 
policy says that, if that happened, Admiral  would write to Mr M to let him know  which  areas 
of his driving would  require  improvement and give him 30 days to do so. It said that if his 
driving didn't improve within those 30 days then it would  cancel  the policy.
But that didnt  happen in this case.  In fact as far as Im aware Admiral didn't ever write  to 
Mr M to say that his driving needed to improve. I asked  Admiral why it didn't give Mr M such 
an opportunity to improve his score. Admiral told me that at the 60 day point  Mr Ms score 
wasnt in the bottom  5%, so it didn't  ever give him a 30 day warning notice. Im not entirely 
certain what Admiral means  by the 60 day point,  as the policy says that Admiral will provide 
advice and support  after any 60 days  of continuous monitoring. So I think  most people  
would interpret that to mean that once  60 days had passed, if the score dropped into the 
bottom 5% then Admiral  would warn Mr M that his driving needed to improve.  And in line 
with the policy terms it would provide advice about how to do that. But I've seen no evidence  
that Admiral ever wrote to Mr M to advise that his driving needed  to improve. So Mr M 
wouldn't have  realised  that he needed  to take that action.
Also, in response  to my enquiries Admiral has confirmed that, contrary to what  it told Mr M,  
it didn't ever reactivate the black box when Mr M reinstated his policy in November 2018. So 
the data it used to decide  that it wasn't  prepared to offer renewal in March  2019  was all 
gathered prior to Mr M declaring his car SORN in September 2018.  And clearly  that was 
before Admiral agreed to reinsure him from November 2018. So the black box data wasn't 
Ref: DRN65230352current at the time that Admiral refused to renew Mr Ms policy.  And I don't think  that was 
fair. Thats because  the policy clearly says that if Mr Ms score  fell into the bottom 5% it 
would write  to him and offer him 30 days to improve. But it never  did that. So it denied  Mr M 
the opportunity  to improve his score, but nonetheless used the same score as a reason to 
refuse to renew his policy. It follows that I don't think it treated  him fairly as its possible that, 
if Admiral had told Mr M of the improvements he needed to make, then he could have done 
so and brought his score  to an acceptable level. But it didn't do that. So I think that 
prejudiced Mr Ms position.
I should say that its not for me to tell an insurer like Admiral who it should  or shouldn't  
insure. And if a consumer  falls outside  of an insurers criteria for offering a policy then it 
wouldn't be fair for me to tell it that it must insure that consumer.  But Admiral is aware that 
having a policy renewal refused can have a significant impact on a consumers ability to 
source further insurance. And if Admiral  had given Mr M the opportunity  to improve  his 
driving, and bring  it within Admirals criteria  for offering renewal, then he might not have been  
in the position to have  to tell other insurers that Admiral had refused to renew his policy. But 
Admiral denied him that chance. So I don't think it's fair that Mr M should continue to have to 
declare to other insurers that Admiral had previously declined  to renew his policy.
So, in order to put things right, I think Admiral should write to Mr M to confirm  that its refusal  
to renew his policy was because  of an error  by it. Mr M can then show  that letter to other 
insurers should that become necessary. And, as this matter has clearly been  a source of 
distress and inconvenience it should pay Mr M and Mrs M £350 compensation.
developments 
Admiral accepted my provisional decision.  Neither Mrs M nor Mr M made any further 
comments.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. As 
neither Admiral nor Mrs M or Mr M has objected  to my provisional findings I see no reason  to 
change them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Write  to Mr M to confirm that its decision to refuse to renew  his policy  in 2019 was 
made in error.
Pay Mr M and Mrs M £350 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.  It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs M and Mr M have 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple1.
1 If Admiral pays interest and considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN65230353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6523035