K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about the information Be Wiser Insurance  Services Ltd gave to him 
when it referred him to a credit hire/claims management company (CMC).
Reference to be Wiser  includes its agents.
background
Mr T was on holiday abroad when he found  out that his car, which was in the UK, had been  
damaged while parked.  He phoned  Be Wiser  to report the claim.  Be Wiser referred him to a 
CMC to deal with it.
Mr T was unhappy about the progress of his claim.  He complained  to Be Wiser. It told him 
that it wasn't responsible for the progress of the claim; the CMC was. Mr T didnt think  that 
Be Wiser had given  him enough information  before referring him to the CMC. 
Our investigator didnt  think Be Wiser  had done  anything wrong.  Mr T didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Be Wiser is an insurance  intermediary, so it sells policies  and might help with their 
administration but it doesn't  provide the cover which is provided  by an insurer which  is a 
separate business. Be Wiser doesn't deal with claims itself. But it has a claims helpline, 
which Mr T phoned. 
Ive listened to the call in which Mr T reported  the claim and in which Be Wiser  referred him 
to the CMC.  Having done so I think Be Wiser gave  Mr T enough  information  to make an 
informed decision about who he wanted  to deal with the claim.
Mr Ts said that Be Wiser didnt tell him that in choosing the CMC his current insurance  
would be bypassed. But hes acknowledged that Be Wiser did tell him that in choosing  the 
CMC his insurance company would be bypassed. So Im not sure why he felt that if his 
insurer wasn't involved his current insurance  would still be relevant to the CMCs handling of 
the claim.  
Mr Ts said that he initially told Be Wiser  that he would like to claim through his insurer.  But it 
asked him three times what his preferred choice would be and it was only after the third time 
that he chose  a referral  to the CMC. But I don't think that means  that Be Wiser  dealt with him 
unfairly. Thats because  I don't  think it was unreasonable for Be Wiser to say why it thought  
that the CMC might be a better option  for Mr T. And he wasn't under any obligation  to use 
the CMC, so he could  have maintained  his stance that he wanted  his insurer to handle the 
claim. 
Mr T said that once hed chosen  the option  of using the CMC no new terms of the new 
insurance policy were given to him. But he wasn't taking out a new policy. Instead he was 
making a claim through a CMC. So there  were no new insurance  policy  terms for Be Wiser 
to pass on.
Ref: DRN61696502Mr Ts said that Be Wiser didnt advise him he would be expected to sign a credit hire 
agreement. He said that put him at risk if the third party had disputed his claim. He said this 
should have been explained to him during the initial call. But I dont think that was required. 
Be Wiser told Mr T that he was bypassing his own insurer. And Mr T was clear  that, as he 
was abroad and the call was expensive,  he didnt wish to spend any more time on the phone 
than was necessary.  So I wouldn't  have  expected  Be Wiser to go into more details in terms 
of the agreement the CMC would expect him to enter into at that time. Also if Mr T wasn't  
happy with the CMCs  credit hire terms once he saw them  he didnt have  to agree to those 
and could have  put his claim through  his insurer at that point. Further,  during the call 
Be Wiser told Mr T that if the third party did dispute  liability then he may be asked to utilise 
your own comprehensive  cover. So I dont  think that Be Wiser did put Mr T at risk as he 
says. It told him he might  be asked to claim through his insurer,  which  I understand is 
standard practice. That is, if a third party disputes liability, a CMC will return the claim to the 
insurer to deal with.
Mr Ts said that choosing the CMC  meant  that seven or eight companies were  involved. And 
if hed been aware  of that then he would have made  a different choice. That might have 
been the case but this isn't something  I would have  expected Be Wiser to explain during that 
call. Thats  because I dont think it could have known how many companies would be 
involved, and Mr T was keen to end the call. Also its common,  even where consumers claim 
on their own policies for a number of companies  to be involved. Thats because, depending 
on the insurer, the nature of the claim and the cover  provided by the policy,  some  insurers  
will use third party claims handlers, solicitors,  approved repairers, hire car companies, etc. 
So I dont  think Be Wiser could be expected  to predict how many companies may or may not 
be involved.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6169650