K820x#14complaint 
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs J say Darlington  Building Society  (DBS) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
DBS had to make Mr and Mrs J aware the PPI was optional  and gain their consent before
adding the policy to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs J have said they were led to believe the 
policy was mandatory.  I cant  be certain what was said at the time Mr and Mrs J applied for 
the policy, but I have  looked at the available evidence and can see that Mr and Mrs J would 
have been required  to complete an application form separate to their mortgage application to 
take the PPI. So, I think Mr and Mrs J would have been aware the policy was optional,  and 
they chose to have it. In addition to this the policy was also provided free for six months. If 
DBS made  the policy mandatory, they would  have no need to incentivise customers by 
offering it free of charge for an initial  period.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs J have said about the PPI application form having the DBS 
logo at the top, but this doesnt make a difference  to my findings.  I still think that from the 
information provided it was clear  the PPI application was separate  to the mortgage 
application.
DBS told us it didnt  recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs J. Mr and Mrs J told us the policy  
was recommended to them. I havent seen anything in the available paper work to suggest 
that a personal  recommendation  was made  about  the policy.  But whether  DBS 
recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs J or not doesnt change my decision.
If DBS did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs J it would  have  had to check that the PPI 
was right for them.
Mr and Mrs J have told us that they were  both entitled to good sick pay from their employers 
when they took the policy,  had considerable savings, other investments, and help from 
family they could rely on to help make  their repayments, so they didnt need the PPI. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to their sick pay and for longer they would have  received  
full pay. It would also have protected their savings and other investments. And while Mr and 
Mrs Js family would have wanted to help, I dont think  this offer of help could be guaranteed. 
Mr and Mrs J whilst  having savings and other investments in place also took further  
borrowing at a later date so I think this shows  they wanted to keep their savings and other 
investments in place  and that it would have been important for them to protect them.  Mr and 
Mrs J also dont appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover. So I think the policy was right for them.
Its possible the information DBS gave Mr and Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
Ref: DRN68637482shouldve been.  But I think  Mr and Mrs J chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs J if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So, to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
DBS has said that the level of commission and profit share  it received  for Mr and Mrs Js PPI 
policy was under 50%. So, it says there  wasnt an unfair relationship and it doesnt need to 
refund anything Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI.
Having looked  at this, I agree. DBS doesnt  have to refund Mr and Mrs J anything  as the 
level of commission and profit share it received was under 50%. 
Overall, I am satisfied DBS has applied  the rules it must follow  correctly.  And while  Ive 
thought about whether theres  anything about  Mr and Mrs Js particular complaint and 
circumstances that means DBS should do something different, I dont think  there is. So, DBS 
doesnt need to do anything further  in Mr and Mrs Js case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 November  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6863748