K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of the estate of her late husband Mr M, that Zurich  Assurance 
Ltd (then trading as Allied  Dunbar Assurance plc) gave her late husband unsuitable  
advice when he set up his pension  scheme in 1993.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint at the beginning of July 2019 (see 
attached). I said I was minded to uphold it for the reasons set out. I asked Zurich and Mrs M 
to let me have anything  further they wanted me to consider before I issued a final decision.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.  Zurich didnt. In summary, it made the following 
additional representations:
Mr Ms priority was to set up a pension. He had limited  funds  available and no other 
pension arrangements.
Life assurance was his third priority.  He already had some in place. This was 
documented in the fact find. He did not have  a mortgage.
It was reasonable  for Mr M to deselect  a Full Refund of Funds  (FROF)  to maximise 
the potential of his contributions at his relative late stage  in life.
De-selection of the FROF didnt seem  unreasonable given he was in good health at 
the time.
There is no evidence to substantiate  the finding  that Mr M wouldnt have been put off 
by the extra  cost of paying  for the FROF option.  The provision of life cover was 
discussed and considered a lower priority.
The ombudsman didnt make  it clear what else the not required box on the right 
hand side of the form couldve related to. 
Mr M was provided with sufficient information  to make an informed choice. No-one 
can know if Mr M read the information. But he was provided  with product particulars 
before the policy was issued and the policy  benefits were set out in an easy to 
understand format.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to 
have happened   based on whats available.
I have carefully considered Zurichs  additional representations, however I still think  
this complaint should be upheld. My reasons are largely the same  as set out in my 
provisional decision. I wont repeat these here. Ill just deal with the points Zurich has 
made in response.
Mr M made it clear that he wanted to provide financial  security  for his family  on his 
death  he said this was very important to him. Important  enough  that the adviser  
noted down that Mr M should provide details of his life cover at their next meeting.  
Mr M said he believed he and his wife had £10,000  worth of life cover each. 
It was clear that Mr M had very limited means and more than one financial objective, 
although setting  up a pension was his number one priority. Had the FROF option not 
Ref: DRN60463162been deselected, this wouldve provided  him with some death benefit cover, meeting 
two of his objectives. Given the lack of clarity around his life cover,  and that his 
means were  such that he may not be able to pay for separate  cover if he wasnt  
already covered, it seems to me that the decision about the FROF  option was an 
important one for Mr M, in his particular circumstances, given his stated objectives 
and priorities. 
This was an advised  sale. Ive looked  carefully at the advisers notes. Nowhere does 
it record that the FROF option was discussed  or that Mr M consciously took the 
decision to deselect  it. Zurich has pointed out reasons why Mr M may have wanted to 
maximise his pension contributions and opt out. But, based  on the limited information  
available, I cant see that the advantages and disadvantages were  discussed. Im not 
satisfied therefore  that more  likely  than not Mr M was given suitable advice at the 
time of sale.  I think he lost out because of this. I say this because based  on the 
limited information I have, I cant fairly conclude that Mr M wouldve more likely than 
not deselected the FROF  option.
Whilst Im still of the view that the information Mr M was given couldve been clearer,  
as Ive found that the advice he was given was unsuitable, theres no need to go into 
this in more detail. Also, as this policy was sold to Mr M at a face to face meeting, I 
think he probably wouldve likely placed more reliance on the advice he was given by 
his adviser than on the paperwork  he was given.
putting things right
This services role is to put the person (or their estate) back into the position  they wouldve 
been in, but for the error or omission.  I think Mr M wouldnt have opted out of a FROF if he 
had been given more suitable  advice and clearer information by Allied  Dunbar. Zurich  
should therefore put things right by doing the following:
(1)Calculate the amount  that Mr Ms estate wouldve received if it had received a full 
refund of funds when Zurich was first notified  that Mr M had passed away. In 
calculating the full refund of funds,  Zurich can deduct the small regular 
contribution Mr M wouldve had to pay each month for the full refund of funds 
option to apply to his policy. Zurich may also deduct any death  benefits already 
paid to Mrs M under this policy.
(2)Zurich should  pay Mr Ms estate the value of the fund as calculated  above, plus 
interest at 8% per annum simple. Interest is payable from the date referred  to in 
1 above until the date of payment.
 If HM Revenue & Customs requires Zurich  to take off tax from this interest. Zurich must 
give the late Mr Ms estate a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if it asks for 
one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Zurich  Assurance Ltd to put things right by doing  
what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of the estate of the late Mr M, to accept  or reject my decision before 8 September 2019.
Ref: DRN60463163Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60463164provisional decision 2 July 2019
complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf  of the estate of her late husband,  Mr M that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(then trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc) gave her late husband unsuitable advice when he 
set up his pension scheme in 1993.
background
Mr M received financial  advice from Allied Dunbar in March 1993.  It carried out what it called  a 
Financial Health Check and recommended he set up a personal pension. He was in his mid forties  
and living with his wife in rented accommodation. He didnt have any other pension arrangements. 
Together, they had around £3,500 in the bank and they earned  around £20,000 per annum between 
them.
At the time of advice, Mr M listed his top three priorities from the selection available, in order of 
priority, as: Providing or increasing retirement income, Protection  of earning in the event of 
sickness/disability and Financial security for your family  in the event of death .
Separately in the notes,  his adviser noted his priorities were, No 1 Pension, No 2 Income 
Protection, and No 3 Mortgage/Life Cover. It was recorded that he wasnt able to take forward all 
three options  because of his limited means. It was noted that he was considering
buying a property  next year. Also, that he may have life cover for both him and his wife in the sum of 
£10,000 each, but this was to be clarified  at the next meeting.
Following Allied  Dunbars  recommendation, in April 1993, Mr M set up a personal  pension. He 
signed the paperwork to do so, and said he would  make regular contributions of £50 per month.  He 
made contributions  of £50 per month between June 1993 and September 1995 and didnt make 
any further contributions  after that.
He signed the paperwork at the time to say he didnt have any disability  or symptoms of ill health  and 
had recently  undergone a medical  examination,  but the results were  negative. He said other than the 
medical investigation  mentioned,  hed consulted his doctor within the last five years for colds and flu 
only. He said he was a smoker, and intended to continue smoking and would be prepared to undergo 
a medical examination if required.
On the form to set up his personal pension there was a list of questions, for example about the 
type of scheme he wanted,  the contributions to be paid, whether the investment contributions were  
to be indexed  or level.  Right beside each of these questions was a box, with various headed 
options, for selection.  If there was more than one option or piece of information to collect, the 
boxes spread across  the page.  There  were ticks in a number of the boxes, presumably placed 
there by either Mr M, or his adviser.
In the section about Benefits and Contributions , on the left hand side part way down the form,  it 
said: Full Return of fund will be included unless not required.  There  was one box to select  only,  
headed Not Required. This box was on the far right hand side of the form.  It was not immediately 
alongside the statement, as was the case with the other selection boxes. There was a tick placed in 
this box.
Under the Plan Schedule sent to Mr M it said under the section Special  Provisions
.3. Death Benefit: Value  of Accumulation  Units.
Under the terms and conditions of the policy, during  the first two years the contributions  only 
purchased capital units.  The annual  management  charge was taken from these capital units  and 
Ref: DRN60463165they grew at lesser rate than accumulation units. So, because Mr M only contributed for just over two 
years, only four of Mr Ms monthly contributions went towards accumulation  units.
Zurich was informed in 2012 that Mr M had passed away.  At the time of death, Mr Ms plan was 
valued at around £1,000. It wrote to Mrs M saying that she was entitled to £4.72  (later
£4.42) payable  as death benefit. Mrs M queried  this. Zurich said, this was because  Mr M
said he did not require  a full refund of funds (FROF).
Mrs M initially complained  to Zurich about the amount of death  benefit she received. She later 
complained to Zurich about the suitability  of the advice her late husband  received when he took out 
his policy. When Zurich didnt uphold  her complaint, she referred it to this service.
Our adjudicator investigated  Mrs Ms complaint and recommended that it was not upheld.  He said he 
couldnt see that Zurich had done anything wrong as it had followed Mr Ms instructions  not to pay out 
a FROF.
Our adjudicator thought Zurich had given  clear enough information about what the FROF
benefit was and how it worked. So, he couldnt  see that the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs M didnt agree with our adjudicators view, so her complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint. As some  of the evidence is either  incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive made a decision on what I think is most likely  to have happened  based 
on whats available.
Sadly, Mr M is no longer  here to be able to give us his account of what  was discussed  between  him 
and his adviser, and to explain why a tick was placed in the box to say he didnt want  a FROF.
As Allied Dunbar recommended that Mr M took out this policy, it had to consider whether the policy 
was right for him, in his individual circumstances. Ive seen the notes  made by Mr Ms
adviser, recording  Mr Ms priorities and his financial  circumstances at the time he took out
the policy.  Having read these, and looking at Mr Ms recorded  objectives  and limited financial 
circumstances, its not clear why it wouldve been considered suitable advice  for Mr M to opt out of a 
FROF on death when he set up his personal pension  policy.
The terms  and conditions said that a FROF was available  to all applicants and required  no medical 
evidence at commencement. Based on what Mr M said about his health at the time, I cant see that 
the state of his health  at that time, wouldve had much of a bearing on his decision  to opt out of the 
FROF, or not.
With a FROF, the benefit in the policy  couldve been retained, even  if contributions  stopped, which 
in Mr Ms case  they did. I cant know if Mr M was concerned about  affording  the monthly  
contributions. I note, his means were limited. He was in his mid forties  and had not previously made  
any private pension provision, and wasnt able to pursue  some of his other financial objectives  at 
that time because he couldnt afford to do so. He said he was considering buying  a property next 
year, so this may have stretched his already  limited  finances. Its also not clear  whether  Mr M had 
any other death benefit  arrangement. He mentioned  life cover, but the adviser noted down  he was 
going to check this when  he next visited Mr M.
Ive taken into account that there  was a small additional regular contribution payable to include the 
FROF death benefit. But, given his stated objectives, I dont think  this wouldve put him off. I think, 
given his means  and objectives of providing  financial  security for his family on death, it wouldve 
mattered to him that there was a return for the £50 per month he was making  in contributions and his 
Ref: DRN60463166family couldve benefitted if he stopped making contributions or died early. If Mr Ms adviser did 
advise him against the FROF, I cant see why he considered this to be suitable  advice, in Mr Ms 
particular circumstances.
As well as providing Mr M with suitable advice, his Allied  Dunbar adviser had to give Mr M clear, 
fair and not misleading  information, so that he could make an informed choice about the decisions 
he was making about his pension.
I havent seen  anything  in the notes to show if the implications  of opting out of a FROF  were  
discussed with Mr M. Given Mr Ms limited means  and his objectives, I think this shouldve been 
discussed with him. I cant see that it was, such that Mr M was in a position to make an informed 
choice.
I cant know if Mr M was given a copy of the terms and conditions before taking out the policy. And 
even if he was given these, I cant know if he read them. However, I think Allied Dunbar shouldve 
brought this significant feature of the policy to Mr Ms attention. From  the notes  of the discussion 
between Mr M and his adviser,  I cant see that it was.
I also dont know when  he was sent the plan schedule, but I think this was probably  sent after 
completing the application  form.  I say this because it contained  information  about the policy he had 
set up. Whilst the terms and conditions  did explain  the FROF  option, the Plan Schedule contained  
very limited information about the death benefits hed chosen, just that on death  he would  get the 
value of the accumulation units. I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve understood what this meant, from 
this brief summary.
Ive also looked carefully at the application form Mr M was required  to complete to take out his 
personal pension. Its not clear why the box pertaining to the FROF question  was not placed 
directly alongside the statement, as was generally  the case with the other boxes. I think  this 
couldve caused some confusion, as it may not have  been overly clear that this particular box 
related to the FROF. So, I cant say that more  likely than not Mr M intended  to opt out of a FROF. 
Given the significance of the selection, I think Allied Dunbar shouldve  made  this clearer in the 
paperwork.
Overall, on balance, I think it unlikely  that Mr M was given enough  clear  information  about  the 
death benefit options to make an informed  choice  at the point of sale.
So, I think Mr Ms estate has lost out as a result.
putting things right
This services role is to put the person  (or their estate) back  into the position they wouldve been in, 
but for the error or omission. I think Mr M wouldnt have opted out of a FROF if he had been given 
clearer information and more suitable advice by Allied  Dunbar.  I am currently minded therefore to 
order that Zurich put things right by doing the following:
(1) Calculate the amount that Mr Ms estate wouldve received if it had received a full refund  of 
funds when  Zurich  was first notified that Mr M had passed  away. In calculating the full 
refund of funds, Zurich  can deduct the small regular  contribution Mr M wouldve had to 
pay each month for the full refund of funds option to apply to his policy. Zurich may also 
deduct any death  benefits already  paid to Mrs M under this policy.
(2) Zurich should pay Mr Ms estate the value of the fund as calculated  above,  plus interest 
at 8% per annum simple. Interest is payable from the date referred  to in 1 above until 
the date of payment.
 If HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Zurich to take off tax from this interest. Zurich must give the 
late Mr Ms estate  a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
Ref: DRN60463167my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold this complaint and to order  Zurich Assurance Ltd to put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046316