K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained about the way a claim under her landlord insurance  policy  was 
handled by U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) and the settlement it made.
Background
Miss G made a claim to UKI in September  2017  after a water  leak in the kitchen of her buy 
to let property. UKI accepted the claim and appointed a contractor  to carry out repairs.  
The works were completed  by 30 May 2018.
As part of the repairs the kitchen floor had to be replaced. That meant the kitchen base units  
had to be removed  and refitted. Also a wall had to be re-plastered.
Miss G says she was told that UKI would pay her £75 a day from 29 November 2017  up to 
the date that the repair work  was finished.
UKI says its claims handler  agreed to pay Miss G £75 a day (£25 for each of her tenants) as 
a disturbance allowance for the period that they were without the use of cooking facilities. 
Based on information  from its contractor  it thought  the tenants were  without kitchen  facilities 
from 8 March to 26 March and 28 to 29 March  2018. It calculated that this was £1,575  based  
on 21 days @ £75 a day.
UKI paid £1,575 to Miss G. She wasnt happy  with that. She also complained  that thered 
been multiple issues with the contractors and their works.
UKI accepted that it could have been  clearer about  what it would pay and paid Miss G £200 
compensation for that. But it didnt change  its decision about the amount of the allowance.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service.  I issued  a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
I think  at times the parties  have  been  talking about  two different things here. It may be 
helpful if I explain what each of those things is.
Firstly theres  a disturbance allowance.  Sometimes  policyholders are entitled  under their 
policy to move out of their property into alternative  accommodation at the insurers expense 
while repair works are carried out. Despite  this even when their property cant  be lived in, a 
consumer may choose to stay at home. The insurer will usually agree to this and in this 
situation it will pay them a disturbance allowance. This isnt actually compensation for 
disturbance. Its compensation for the extra costs a consumer  has incurred by remaining in 
their home, for example  extra food expenses when they dont have proper  kitchen facilities 
to prepare meals. The industry standard is an allowance of £10 a day for each adult.
Secondly theres often  optional extra  cover  in a landlord insurance policy for loss of rent and 
related expenditure a landlord  might incur to avoid losing rent as a result of damage  covered 
by the policy.  But Miss Gs policy didnt cover  her for this.
On 29 November 2018 UKIs claim handler  emailed Miss G as follows:
Ref: DRN63751962In respect  of the delays  I have told the contractors to contact you ASAP  to book in and 
complete the repairs and I have specifically told them that the repairs need to be completed 
before Christmas as I feel this is plenty of time to undertake full repairs. 
As also discussed, I understand that the tenants  will be without a kitchen and therefore will 
be unable to cook so with this in mind  it is agreed that I will pay £25 per person per day from 
todays date up to the date the repairs have been  completed. This will be calculated once 
completion date is known.
The claims handler didnt  clarify whether this was a disturbance allowance  or payment under 
the policy for loss of rent cover. I can see how confusion set in. On balance  it seems to me 
more like a disturbance allowance because its related  to the lack of kitchen facilities  even 
though the payment started before the tenants lost the use of the kitchen. Also the email was 
in response to one from Miss G telling UKI that her tenants were concerned about not having 
the use of the kitchen  over the Christmas period and had threatened to withhold rent.
Id normally say that an insurer only had to pay a disturbance allowance for the period that 
the occupiers  didnt  have kitchen facilities. But in this case UKI specifically promised
Miss G that the allowance would be paid from 29 November 2017  to the date when the 
repairs were completed.  The repairs were  finally  completed  on 30 May 2018. UKI says that 
Miss G had a workable kitchen earlier than that. I dont think that matters. If it only wanted to 
pay the allowance for the period when the kitchen  couldnt be used, it should have said that.
Ive looked at why the works  took so long. I can see that after the property had been 
checked for damp, the repair works were scheduled  to start on 16 February but were 
delayed until 8 March  at the tenants request. So I dont  think  UKI should be required to pay 
the disturbance  allowance for that period  since the works took about three weeks  longer  
than they should have  done due to that. I think the total amount payable is £12,225 being  
the allowance of £75 a day from 29 November  2017 to 15 February 2018 and from 8 March 
2018 to 30 May 2018 (being 163 days @ £75 a day). From  this should be deducted  the sum 
of £1,575 already paid by UKI in respect  of this. That means I am minded to require UKI to 
make a further payment of £10,650.
I can see there were some issues with the way the works were  handled.  There  were some  
avoidable delays  and some works had to be redone because  of failings on the part of UKIs 
contractors. But the allowance  agreed by UKIs  claims handler  is much more generous than 
the £30 a day wed normally award.  So Im not persuaded any further compensation is 
necessary for the trouble this would have  caused  Miss G and her tenants.
Miss G accepted my provisional decision. 
UKI said that Miss G had opted  not to take out cover for loss of rent. It also said in the email 
referred to by me its claim handler didnt  specify that the payment of £75 a day was a 
disturbance allowance because it wouldnt have been paid in respect of anything else. It was 
offered because the tenants would be unable to cook. It shouldnt  have to pay a disturbance 
allowance for a period when kitchen facilities were  available to prepare meals.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63751963I agree  with UKI that Miss G didnt have loss of rent cover. In this case UKI isnt objecting to 
paying a disturbance allowance. The dispute  is about how much  should be paid. The only 
reason I think UKI should pay the allowance  for a period when kitchen facilities  were 
available is because it specifically  said it would.  And I think Miss G relied on that.
At the time it gave Miss G that assurance, it didnt have a start date for the works although it 
obviously expected  them to start fairly soon. They should only have taken a few weeks.  
Nonetheless UKI said the allowance  would start from 29 November 2017. So it was 
prepared to pay the allowance even when  kitchen facilities were still available.
On 30 November 2017 the contractor  told Miss G the works wouldnt be finished  by 
Christmas. Its reasonable to assume  that UKI would  have been aware of this too since  the 
contractor was answerable to it. In fact after some stripping out work in the kitchen nothing 
much happened  for several weeks. But at no point did UKI tell Miss G it was retracting  its 
promise to pay the disturbance  allowance in respect of any part of the period it had promised 
to pay for. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss G and her tenants to continue to rely 
on the promise that it would be paid as they put up with the ongoing disruption caused  by 
delays, damage caused  by the contractor and poor workmanship which had to be redone.
I wouldnt hold UKI to the promise  to pay until the end of the repairs if it had made a 
mistake and it would  be manifestly  unfair to do so. But Im mindful  that the contractors were 
appointed by UKI. So if UKI wasnt happy with the time it was taking for the repairs  to be 
completed, it was responsible for sorting  that out. Miss G couldnt do that  all she could 
have done would have been to complain to UKI. But there  was no need for her to do that  
she thought UKI was going to pay a daily disturbance allowance.  I dont think it would be fair 
to require UKI to pay the allowance for the period when it was requested  to delay the works.  
But other than that I remain  of the view that it should  pay what it said it would.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss G the sum of £10,650 
in respect of a disturbance allowance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6375196