K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs W took out in 2008. It was added  to her 
account shortly after the card had been  set up during a telephone conversation.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mrs W. This means it had to take steps to find out 
about Mrs Ws needs, and make sure the policy would meet them. But even if it didnt make 
a personal recommendation, Barclays still had to give Mrs W clear information  about the 
PPI, so she could  decide  whether to have  it. And either way, Ive not seen  enough to show  
me that Barclays did what it shouldve done.
Mrs W had a medical condition when she took out the policy. So I dont think the policy was 
right for her.  Barclays had a responsibility to give her clear  enough  information  including 
making her aware of any significant features of the policy, so that she could make a properly 
informed decision about whether she wanted to buy the policy. But based on what  Ive read 
and been told, I cant  say that Barclays did this well enough.
According to the terms of the policy, it would not pay benefits for any disability that was a 
result of any condition, injury, illness, disease or sickness for which  you had symptoms, 
consulted a doctor, received treatment or received medication during the 12 months 
immediately before the start date. 
I think when Mrs W took out the PPI, shed probably  have thought something resulting from 
her known health issue was a likely reason she might be off work. If she did make such  a 
claim, I think  its unlikely the policy wouldve covered her.
In my view, Barclays shouldve made this exclusion clear to Mrs W, before she agreed to 
buy the PPI, so she could make a properly informed decision about whether she wanted the 
policy. And because  Barclays recommend the policy to her, it shouldve  at least  alerted her 
attention to the fact that the policy mightnt be right for her because  of her health problems. 
Im not persuaded that it did this. 
There is no call recording or call transcript available - so I dont know what, if anything was 
discussed about PPI between Mrs W and the Barclays adviser.  It has given us a copy of a 
Ref: DRN61410342call script  which  appears to prompt the advisor  to inform customers that existing medical 
conditions wouldnt have  been covered. But I havent seen enough evidence  to persuade me 
that Barclays made it clear to Mrs W that she wouldnt be able to claim for any period of 
disability resulting from the medical  condition she had. I think this wouldve been important 
for her to know. And I think if Barclays had made that clear  to her, she probably wouldnt 
have felt the policy was right for her. So its unlikely she wouldve taken it out.
Barclays says Mrs Ws condition was well managed at the time, and she wasnt on any 
medication so it wouldnt  have an impact on her daily life. While Mrs Ws condition may have 
been under  control at the time of sale, she has been  clear  that she was using a medical  
device in order to control  it. She also says she had annual clinic check-ups in relation to this 
condition. 
Barclays also says that the policy only covers disability lasting 14 days  or more,  and as 
Mrs Ws condition  would  normally only affect  someone for shorter  periods, she would never  
have needed to make a claim  relating  to her medical condition.  But Mrs Ws condition  is one 
that can lead to complications  that can have a longer term impact  on her health.  So its likely 
she would  have thought the most  likely reason shed be unable  to work would be as a result 
of her pre-existing medical condition. 
So overall, I dont  think Barclays did enough  to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs W. 
And I dont  think Mrs W wouldve bought the PPI if Barclays had pointed  out that it wasnt 
suitable for her because  of her medical  condition. So I think  Mrs W has lost out because of 
what Barclays has done wrong. Ive considered Barclays comment that Mrs W wouldve  
been able to claim for other conditions. But this doesnt change my conclusion.
fair compensation
Mrs W should be put back in the position  she would have been in now if PPI hadnt  been 
added to her credit  card.
A. Barclays  should find out how much Mrs W would  have owed when she closed her credit 
card account  if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. Barclays  should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed  her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund.
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI 
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance Barclays should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest  until the point when  Mrs W 
Ref: DRN61410343wouldve owed Barclays something  on her credit card.  The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. Barclays should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mrs W to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must  give Mrs W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
I require Barclays Bank  Plc to pay Mrs W compensation in accordance  with the calculation  of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6141034