K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc closed his account and recorded  a default against  
him without  helping him in light of his circumstances  and without sufficient notice. 
background
Mr L held a current account with HSBC for some years. He started experiencing financial 
difficulty towards the end of 2018.  In November  2018 some contact took place between Mr L 
and HSBC about the overdraft on his account.  He was almost £500  over the agreed 
overdraft limit and had been over his limit since September  2018.  HSBC  put an agreement  in 
place for two months - to allow time for Mr Ls circumstances to improve.
Mr L says that HSBC went on to close his account and record a default against him without 
telling him first. Mr L thinks the default  should  be removed. He wants HSBC to agree to a 
reasonable payment plan to help him reduce the outstanding debt. 
HSBC has rejected the complaint on the basis that it followed the correct process. Our 
investigator found that HSBC took appropriate steps to help Mr L and sent the right letters  to 
notify him of its intended actions. So he did not uphold this complaint. 
Mr L does not agree  with our outcome and has told us that the default recorded  against him 
is causing further financial difficulty and affecting  his health.
As an agreement has not been reached, this case has been  passed to me to issue  a 
decision on the matter.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Ls circumstances. Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly  
based on what it knew at the time. It had a duty to treat him positively and sympathetically, 
and to be clear about any payment arrangements that were  set up and any impact they 
could have on his credit file.
In November 2018 Mr L called HSBC about the overdraft on his account. He said his 
financial circumstances had changed.  An income and expenditure (I&E)  assessment was 
carried out and HSBC agreed to freeze  any further interest and charges for 60 days, to allow  
time for his circumstances to improve. This was on the basis  that a minimum of £30 would 
be deposited into the account each  month.  HSBC also signposted Mr L to relevant free 
debt-advice organisations for support. 
Mr L says he was under the impression that as long as he continued making  the agreed 
payments, no further action would be taken. However I think HSBC made the consequences 
of the payment arrangement clear.  I say this because during the call, HSBC  told Mr L that 
being over his overdraft  limit for 180 consecutive days  would lead to a default being  
recorded and this would remain on his credit  file for six years.  It was made  known to Mr L 
that he had already been over his agreed  limit for around 70 days. 
Ref: DRN64262112Mr L made it clear that due to his circumstances, he could not immediately afford to bring his 
balance within the limit. This was confirmed by the results of his I&E that showed he had no 
disposable income. HSBC explained  that the purpose of the arrangement was to allow  some  
time for Mr Ls circumstances  to improve without incurring further interest  and charges on his 
account. 
The arrangement was agreed for two months  to be reviewed in January  2019. A letter was 
sent to Mr L following the call confirming this. HSBC  has provided a copy of this letter that 
shows it was sent to Mr Ls correct address.
Based on the conversations that took place I think HSBC took the right steps to try and help 
Mr L. It also made it clear what the next steps would be if he didnt bring his account within 
the agreed limit. So, Im satisfied HSBC treated him fairly. 
In December 2018, because Mr Ls account was now three months  in arrears, HSBC  sent 
him a default  notice.  Mr L says that he never received the notice. However,  he called HSBC 
that month  and made reference  to this letter. So I think  its likely he did receive this letter  and 
the others,  as they were  all sent to the same  address. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  says when a consumer is at least three months  
behind with their payments then a default  may be registered. And it would expect a default  to 
be registered by the time the consumer  is six months behind  with their payments. 
Mr L complains  that HSBC proceeded to issue the default without sufficient notice   he says 
he wasnt receiving his post and complains that HSBC did not call or email  him to discuss  
the matter further.  
Businesses are expected  to send information  about arrears in writing and in any event when 
HSBC asked for a contact  number, Mr L didnt provide one. HSBC  said he should keep an 
eye out for post and call back  in 60 days.
In January 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr L ahead  of the arrangement end date. The letter asked 
Mr L to contact HSBC to update his financial position. The letter  made it clear what the next 
steps would  be if it didnt hear from him. Because Mr L made no further  contact with HSBC 
the arrangement  came  to an end and the collection process resumed. HSBC sent 
Mr L a final demand to settle his overdraft in full. Mr L did not settle the balance in time so 
his account was closed and the debt passed  to HSBC Repayment  Services.  
From everything Ive seen  I am of the opinion that HSBC acted fairly and in line with the 
relevant rules and regulations when managing the arrears on Mr Ls account. Im satisfied 
with the steps  HSBC  took to try and help Mr L when it became aware of his financial 
circumstances and based on how the account was being managed,  acted accordingly by 
entering a default  on the account.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr L, but I wont  be asking  HSBC  
to do anything differently.  Mr L has told our service that he was suffering with his mental 
health at the time. I am very sorry to hear this, but I cant see this is something  HSBC was 
made aware  of during  its collection process.  Based on what  it knew  about Mr Ls financial  
circumstances, it acted  in line with what Id expect and hasnt acted  unfairly by passing the 
debt to its repayment services. 
Ref: DRN64262113my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6426211