K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave him loans that he couldnt afford.
background
Mr M took out a total of three loans with Uncle Buck between February 2014 and July 2015. 
Mr M has repaid all of his loans.
Mr M says he had so many loans with other  lenders at the time that he was borrowing from 
one lender to repay another. He says that at the time he was borrowing from Uncle Buck  he 
had defaults on his credit file and was in a debt management plan. He believes that if Uncle 
Buck had carried out adequate checks,  it wouldnt have  agreed to make the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
said that the information on the credit check should  have  led Uncle Buck  to carry out more  
checks for loans 2 and 3. She said that if it had done  those checks it would have  seen that 
Mr M was in a debt management plan and that Mr M had difficulty with his finances  and was 
struggling to repay credit. So she said that Uncle Buck should  refund all interest  and charges 
that Mr M paid on loans 2 and 3, with interest on the refund. And she said it should remove 
any negative information about the loans from Mr Ms credit file.
Uncle Buck  disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said in summary that it wasnt  clear that 
Mr M was in a debt management plan and he was specifically asked about this as part of his 
application for the loans. It said that although  it knew of the defaults on the credit file, these 
were not in relation to priority debts and it was reasonable to lend on the basis  of the 
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether Mr M 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loans. It asked 
him for details of his regular monthly  income  and expenditure. And it carried out a credit  
check before  each loan.  
When Mr M applied for loan 1, he told Uncle Buck his monthly take-home pay was £3,200. 
And he listed her regular monthly  outgoings  as around £2200. So on the basis of the 
information Mr M provided, hed have  comfortably been able to afford the repayment on the 
loan of £400. The loan was repaid in full and on time. Mr M agrees that it wasnt  
unreasonable for Uncle Buck to have given him this loan.
There was then a significant gap of over a year before Mr M applied  for the second loan. Mr 
M asked to borrow £825 which was a significant  increase  although the loan was to be paid 
over 3 instalments.  The credit check that Uncle Buck carried out before agreeing to the loan 
Ref: DRN65071492showed that Mr M had two defaulted  accounts  in the last twelve months.  I think  it was 
reasonable for Uncle Buck  to carry out further checking as Mr Ms financial picture was at 
odds with the details he had given  Uncle Buck.  I think  Uncle  Buck should have verified what  
Mr M was sating  about his finances  given the size of the loan. I dont  agree  that as these 
defaults were for non-priority debts it was reasonable to lend without further checks.  A 
default is a clear indicator that there has been  a difficulty repaying credit.
Looking at Mr Ms bank statements for this period,  I can see that Mr M was paying  £509.76  
via direct debit to a debt management company. If Uncle Buck  had asked to see the 
statements or verified Mr Ms outgoings it would have seen that his declared outgoings didnt 
include this direct debit.  I think that if Uncle Buck had carried  out proportionate checking  for 
this loan its likely that it would have discovered that he couldnt  afford  to take on further 
borrowing. So I think Uncle Buck should  have declined his application.
Loan 3 was for the same amount as loan 2 and was taken out shortly after loan 2 was 
repaid. I think the information shown on Uncle Bucks credit search and the borrowing 
pattern ought  to have suggested  to it that it was likely that Mr M was dependent  on short-
term borrowing, and that his borrowing was unsustainable. 
I think that if Uncle Buck had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks when  Mr 
M applied for loans  2 and 3, it would have  realised that it was unlikely that Mr M was 
borrowing sustainably. In other words, it was unlikely that hed be able to afford  to repay  the 
loans out of his normal  income  and savings, without having to borrow  further. And as a 
responsible lender, Uncle Buck shouldnt  have made loans 2 and 3.
putting things right
To put things right, Uncle  Buck should:
refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid on loans 2 and 3;
add interest to those  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about the refunded  loans from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs require Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN65071493my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6507149