K820x#14complaint
Mr N says he was mis-sold a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 10 September 2019, a copy extract of which is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither HSBC  or Mr N have given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained previously I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint against HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc so it does  not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
Mr N took out a mortgage with HSBC in 2003. At the same time he took out a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover his mortgage  repayments if he was unable to work  due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job.
Ref: DRN64215612Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld as she didnt think there  was 
enough evidence  to show that Mr N was given  the opportunity during the sale to confirm he 
wanted to take out the policy.  
HSBC disagrees and has provided sample documentation to show  Mr N would have to 
actively confirm he wanted  the policy. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im currently  thinking of not upholding this complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC had to make  it clear Mr N had a choice in taking the policy and that it wasnt  a 
condition of the mortgage. The policy was sold during a meeting. HSBC  have given  us a 
copy of the financial  planning review conducted  at the time. I can see from this that quite a 
lot of detail was recorded about Mr Ns circumstances and that PPI and other products were 
discussed. I can see from the notes recorded that Mr N didnt  initially want PPI as he felt it 
didnt provide value for money. 
I can see following the review a number of products were recommended to Mr N and that 
although PPI was taken not all of the products recommended were.
So I think Mr N wouldve  understood  PPI was optional because it was recommended  along  
with other  products that Mr N chose not to take. 
HSBC has also given  us a sample of the PPI declaration form and direct debit mandate  that 
it says wouldve had to be completed  by Mr N to take out a PPI policy.  Ive no reason to think 
that HSBC didnt use these or similar documents for the sale of PPI to Mr N. So I think  on 
balance because Mr N had PPI its likely  he chose to take it by signing the declaration and 
direct debit mandate. 
And because the PPI premiums were taken separately from the mortgage I think  if Mr N 
hadnt chosen to take PPI he wouldve questioned why he was being charged for it on his 
bank statements. 
HSBC advised  Mr N to take the policy. What this means is that HSBC not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr N could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr Ns needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HSBC  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr N for the following  reasons:
Ref: DRN64215613Mr N was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr N says he was entitled to some sick pay and had savings he could  use to help with 
his repayments  if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve  covered  him for up to 12 
months if he couldnt work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job and paid out on top 
of any sick pay or savings. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr N in his circumstances 
especially considering  he was taking on a significant  and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments  I think  he 
wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr N at the time. And if 
he decided he no longer wanted  the policy he could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether HSBC  gave Mr N information in a way which  was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out.
I dont know if HSBC  did give all the information as it shouldve.  But for the same  reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr N has told us about his circumstances at 
the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.
Which means I currently dont think HSBC has to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to
Mr N.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr N about that. 
Because HSBC  didnt  tell Mr N, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional decision
I currently do not think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank  Plc does  not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6421561