K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 20 years  ago. 
But Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the application form. I can see that to get the 
PPI Mr M had to tick a box. And the box has been ticked and Mr M signed the application,  
which suggests his agreement to the forms contents. And that section in which  Mr M chose  
the PPI is described  as Optional Features. So having considered  all the submissions I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr M aware that the 
PPI was optional  and that he chose  to take it, even though he may not remember that now, 
many years later.
Both parties  think Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mr M. This meant Lloyds needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr M. Based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think the recommendation was right for him. I explain why 
below.
Mr M was eligible for the policy and he was not affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI policy. And I think Mr M had a need for the policy.  Mr M told us he had good 
sick pay initially but that it dropped significantly after six months.  And Mr M told us he had no 
other means  he could  have relied  on if things went wrong. The PPI could have paid 10% of 
Mr Ms monthly repayment for up to 12 months  in the event he became too unwell to work, 
or if he lost his job. So, I think the policy  would have been useful to Mr M. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable (Mr M afforded the policy  for some  time).  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But its most likely that he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
Ref: DRN64090582type of cover. And for the same reasons I dont think the policy  was unsuitable  for Mr M, I 
dont think better information  would have  put him off taking out the cover.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6409058