K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  through  a total mortgage protection policy  
(TMPP).
background
In 2002, at a meeting with the bank, Mr and Mrs B took out a further  advance  on their 
mortgage. They also took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage  repayments in the event 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment. They were covered equally under the policy  for PPI. 
TMPP was a package  of different types  of insurance, including mortgage  repayment cover,  
which is a form of PPI. Mrs B also took out critical illness cover.  Im just dealing with the PPI 
part of their policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  and said, in 
summary, PPI wasnt discussed  and they wouldnt have taken it if it was. 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs B took out the insurance. Ive 
taken into account  what they remember. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them  to 
recall exactly what  was discussed at the time,  given  the time that has passed.  This means  
that what Mr and Mrs B say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint. I must look at the available information  and take into account the wider 
circumstances to decide what most likely  happened, based on whats available.  I have to be 
impartial. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint Id have to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  
their consent. But I cant fairly  say that based on the information Ive got, and what we know  
about Bank of Scotlands sales processes around  that time. 
Ive seen their mortgage paperwork. PPI isnt mentioned  on there. Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
had to sign separate paperwork  to take out the TMPP policy.  Ive seen samples  of the 
paperwork they wouldve  had to complete to take out TMPP  that makes it clear  that PPI is 
an optional and separate product and asks the consumer whether they want  it or not.  I think 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood  therefore  that PPI was a separate product from the 
mortgage. Mrs B took out critical illness cover too, Mr B didnt. This leads me to believe that 
more likely than not there  was a conversation about  PPI and they opted  take out the 
insurances that best met their needs.
Ref: DRN66858582So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mr and Mrs B werent given enough 
information about the optional nature  of PPI to make  an informed choice  that they wanted it. 
On balance, I think its just as likely that Mr and Mrs B was persuaded of the need to protect 
their home by taking  out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy. 
The policy was recommended. So Bank  of Scotland had to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for them, as well as giving them information  that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that they could make an informed choice about  whether the policy was right for them  and 
they wanted to buy it. 
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B based on what  Ive seen  of their 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
they appeared eligible  to take out the cover.
they said they wouldve got benefits through work if they were  off work sick. But I still 
think TMPP couldve provided them with useful protection. It wouldve paid out for up 
to 24 months per claim. They couldve made repeated claims under the policy. So 
TMPP gave them long term protection for their mortgage. It wouldve  allowed them  to 
use their work benefits to meet  their other household expenses  and paid their 
mortgage; which it might have been  difficult for them to do if one of them  wasnt  
working. 
there were some things  the policy didnt cover. I cant see that they were  affected by 
these. So, I dont  think having more information  about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly  premium  for TMPP. They  didnt have to pay interest on 
the premium and couldve stopped the policy at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant see that it was unaffordable.  
I dont know what they were told about the costs at the time they took out the policy 
in the bank. Its possible the costs  couldve been  made clearer  to at the time. But, I 
dont think having clearer information  wouldve changed their decision as the TMPP 
seemed affordable and it was suitable for their needs. 
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided  them with useful protection  to safeguard 
their home.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  But, I 
think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if they had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave them useful protection  in their circumstances. I 
cant see that theyve  lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland may have done 
wrong.
Ref: DRN66858583my final decision 
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6685858