K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about what  Aviva  Insurance Limited did when he asked it to fix his boiler.
background
Mr H has a home emergency policy with Aviva, for a property he rents  out. He told us that 
hed recently spent £2,500 on replacing a boiler in the property, because hed been  told it 
was leaking. But he said that hed then found out that this didnt solve the damp problem. 
Mr H said a plumber had found a leak from the top floor,  and he thought  that this was what 
had caused the damp  area around  the boiler, not a leak from the boiler itself. Mr H said hed 
only paid for the new boiler because of the advice Aviva gave him. He thought  this advice 
was wrong. So he wanted Aviva  to pay him back the money hed spent, unnecessarily.  
Aviva said that Mr H had rung it after an engineer from an unrelated company had carried  
out a gas safety  check, and had declared Mr Hs boiler unsafe.  It said that the report  from 
that engineer  said at risk  all off - boiler  leaking   isolated gas  unable to isolate  water   
drained heating. Aviva said that it appreciated that Mr H had found  another leak since  then, 
but it thought that there had just been  two leaks. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that the photo shed seen did suggest  
the boiler was badly  corroded. She didnt think that Aviva was wrong  to rely on the report  
from the first gas engineer. So she didnt think that Aviva had to do any more.  
Mr H said that he didnt  think that the photo  had been taken by Avivas engineer. He thought 
it was one that hed sent Aviva, showing limescale on the copper balance  pipe, which  had 
been like that for years.  He said that a previous engineer didnt  want  to remove the 
limescale, in case it caused another leak. And he thought that the most recent inspection 
had just assumed  this was what was leaking. 
Mr H repeated that Aviva hadnt checked itself to see if the boiler  was leaking, it had just 
relied on what the previous engineer had said. Mr H said he wanted  an ombudsman to 
consider his case, so this complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr H thinks  that Aviva  made  a mistake, and shouldve investigated the problem with his 
boiler fully, rather than rely on information  provided by the previous engineer  who looked 
at it. But I thought it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the report  provided by the 
previous engineer. He saw the boiler working,  and the central heating system  full of 
water, and his report says boiler leaking . I didnt think  it was wrong if Aviva thought that 
this must mean the boiler was leaking.  I thought it was reasonable for Aviva  to start 
thinking about what it should  do, on that basis. 
-I then had to think  about what Aviva  shouldve done next. Its policy sets out that it 
doesnt have to make repairs  to a boiler, if the boiler  is beyond  economic repair,  or if the 
parts are obsolete. There seemed to have been  some confusion over which  of those  
Ref: DRN62675992policy terms applied. The engineer said the cylinder was leaking,  and that was obsolete.  
But it also said that this sort of unvented cylinder  wasnt covered under the policy. 
-I wasnt sure whether it wouldve been fair for Aviva to refuse to repair Mr Hs boiler, on 
the basis that this cylinder, which wasnt covered, couldnt be replaced because  that part 
was no longer available. I hadnt  got any evidence on whether it wouldve been safe to 
run the boiler  with a leaking cylinder.  
-But we knew that Avivas engineer also said at the time that the boiler was beyond 
economic repair. And I hadnt  seen anything in this case to make  me doubt Avivas  
conclusion on that.
-That meant that, under Mr Hs policy, Aviva didnt have to repair  Mr Hs boiler. After 
some confusion, Aviva  sent us the relevant policy. That says what happens when a 
boiler is beyond  economic  repair. 
-The policy says  
oBER  If upon making a claim your boiler is deemed to be BER,  we will replace it 
if it is less than 7 years old  If your boiler  is 7 years old or over when it is 
declared BER we will make a contribution of £200 towards the cost of a new 
boiler. When your boiler is declared  BER, your policy will be cancelled in 
accordance with the procedure outlined in section A, under the heading How can 
my policy  be cancelled?
-Under Mr Hs policy, he then became entitled  to a contribution of £200  towards  a new 
boiler. I understood that Aviva  had paid that.
-When Aviva made that payment, it was also supposed to cancel Mr Hs policy.  The 
relevant section of Mr Hs policy states that it will also make  a refund for unused  parts  of 
the policy. From what Id seen, it didnt  look like Aviva did that. Mr Hs policy  was in its 
last month when he contacted Aviva about  the leak. I thought that any refund due 
wouldve been for a very modest amount.  But I didnt think  that undermined the fact that 
Aviva shouldve  addressed this part of the policy, and it didnt appear to have done so.
-On what Id seen,  I thought that Aviva should pay Mr H £50. That was to cover  the 
outstanding policy  premium, which it should, under its policy, have returned  to him after 
deciding that it would  make a £200 contribution to the new boiler. And it was also to 
include compensation to Mr H for the fact that this premium  refund wasnt  paid to him 
promptly when Aviva decided that it wouldnt make  repairs to his boiler.  
-I knew that Mr H would  be very disappointed with this outcome, but I didnt think I could 
fairly ask Aviva  to do more than that. I didnt propose to uphold  the rest of his complaint.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr H wrote to object.  Aviva sent us new evidence. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ref: DRN62675993Mr H said that I hadnt  acknowledged  that the boiler  was working fine and no issues had 
been reported before a gas engineer came to carry out an annual gas safety check.  
Mr H said hed spoken to this engineer before he left, and asked how bad the leak was. The 
engineer had said he didnt know, he couldnt  see it, but he wasnt  allowed to deal with leaks, 
and water was evident on the boiler room  floor around and under the boiler.
Mr H then said hed then spoken to the boiler fitter who said the boiler was obsolete and no 
spares would  be available, but that he might not need spares. The fitter said he might  not 
need any parts. Mr H said he asked how bad the leak was but the fitter said he was unable 
to recharge the system and check as the previous engineer had put an at risk notice on the 
boiler that he couldnt remove. (I think Mr H is referring here to Avivas  engineer.)
Mr H said that because  the gas engineer noticed  a damp  floor, but wasnt trained to 
investigate the source,  he made the decision to isolate and drain the system  and hang  a 
safety notice. This notice  actually stopped the boiler  fitter doing anything  and so no 
investigation took place. When Mr H changed  the boiler, that didnt  eliminate the damp floor.  
Mr H still thought that one of the people involved shouldve actually observed the leak 
instead of making  assumptions.
This complaint is about what Aviva did, when Mr H reported a problem with his boiler.  Its not 
about what the first gas engineer did, when he declared Mr Hs boiler at risk. That annual 
safety check wasnt done as part of Mr Hs policy with Aviva,  and it isnt responsible  for that. 
Aviva is responsible for the work done  when  Mr H reported this problem to it. But Aviva  says 
that the boiler was visibly damaged. It thinks that the reason the area was still damp after the 
boiler was repaired, was that there was another leak elsewhere. 
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was wrong, when Avivas engineer came 
out to look at Mr Hs boiler,  for him to rely on a report  provided by the previous engineer 
which said that the boiler was leaking. I still think that. And Aviva has work history from 
previous visits, in 2015 and 2016, which say the boiler was leaking then. I think that also 
suggests it was reasonable for Aviva  to start from the basis  that the same  thing was likely to 
be wrong this time. I still dont think that this part of Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
I did think though,  when I wrote my provisional decision, that Aviva hadnt  paid Mr H some 
money that it owed  him under his policy. Its now sent us new evidence, and says it did make 
the payment that was due. It tells us that it cancelled his policy immediately,  as its supposed 
to, and it has paid him £79.72. We asked Mr H, and he says he hasnt received that. 
I think that might actually be a bit more than Aviva owed Mr H, under his policy. So if Aviva  
has paid this money, then it wouldnt need  to pay Mr H any more. But, as he says he hasnt 
had that money,  Ill now make the award  I proposed. I will add, however, that Aviva can 
count towards that award, any refund of premium its already paid. So if Aviva can show that 
this refund was received by Mr H, then it doesnt need to do any more. If not, it will have  to 
make the payment I initially proposed.
Ref: DRN62675994my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  must pay Mr H £50. Aviva Insurance 
Limited can count towards that amount any refund of premium it has already paid to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6267599