K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that the mortgage  advice they received from GE Money Home Lending 
Limited (represented  by GE Money  Lending  Solutions Limited)  was unsuitable.
background
In 2008, Mr and Mrs B received advice in connection with taking out a mortgage  from 
GE Money  Lending  Solutions (GEMLS).  GEMLS was an appointed representative of 
GE Money  Home Lending (GEMHL). GEMHL is a mortgage lender. GEMLS is a mortgage 
broker.
At the time,  Mr and Mrs B were  tenants of a council property  which they wanted to purchase  
under the Right to Buy government scheme. They were looking to borrow  £67,500 to fund 
the purchase, along with an additional £10,000 for home improvements. Theyd already 
applied to a high street lender but had been  declined. 
After an initial meeting in April, GEMLS  gave  Mr and Mrs B an illustration of their 
recommended mortgage  with GEMHL. This was a repayment mortgage over a term of 
23 years,  with a three-year fixed interest rate of 6.89%. That meant  that for the first three  
years, Mr and Mrs Bs contractual  monthly payment (CMP) would be £574.05. But that 
application didnt  go ahead. Mr and Mrs B recall this being because  GEMHL had changed 
(and increased) its interest rates  and the 6.89% deal was no longer available. 
This led to GEMLS revising  its recommendation. In May, they gave  Mr and Mrs B a new 
illustration: the mortgage would still run for 23 years but was now on an interest only basis.  
Interest was to be charged at a fixed rate of 7.84% for the first five years,  meaning that 
Mr and Mrs Bs CMP would be £518.53  for that period. Mr and Mrs B accepted  GEMLSs 
recommendation  they submitted an application  that was accepted  by GEMHL and the 
mortgage duly completed in August 2008.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs B complained to GEMHL about  the mortgage  advice  theyd received 
from GEMLS. They said theyd only been  recommended an interest only mortgage in 
reaction to GEMHLs  interest rates rising, which had made the repayment  mortgage 
unaffordable for them. They said thered been  no discussion about how they would  repay the 
capital balance. They didnt  think the recommendation had been suitable.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  receive an answer to their concerns from GEMHL, so they referred their 
complaint to us. GEMHL  didnt think it fell within our jurisdiction, but I issued a decision 
earlier this year explaining that it did. So one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt  think GEMLSs recommendation to take out an interest  only mortgage 
was suitable. She thought Mr and Mrs B shouldve  been advised to take out a repayment  
mortgage. So she recommended that GEMHL pay them the amount needed to reduce their 
mortgage balance  to what it would be if it had operated  on a repayment  basis,  and pay for 
them to obtain  independent advice about switching the mortgage to a repayment basis now.
GEMHL didnt accept  our investigators  view, and asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. So it was passed  to me.
Ref: DRN63766862my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  earlier this month, explaining 
why I didnt intend to uphold it. I said:
The crux of this complaint is whether GEMLSs recommendation that Mr and Mrs B 
take out the mortgage on an interest only basis was suitable. From everything Ive 
seen so far, I think that it was  and I see nothing  else within  the recommendation that 
gives me cause for concern. So Im not intending  to direct GEMHL  to take any further 
action. Ill explain why.
It seems  that before the interest only mortgage  was recommended, GEMLS  advised 
Mr and Mrs B to take out a repayment mortgage. That wouldve ensured that they 
were reducing the capital  balance each month and repaying the whole amount owed 
by the end of the 23-year term.
That recommendation wasnt followed up on as, according to Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollections, the interest rates  offered  by GEMHL changed. The higher rates pushed 
their projected monthly payments up  and they say they felt a repayment mortgage 
was now unaffordable for them. Their needs  and circumstances  were  reviewed again, 
leading to the recommended change of repayment type to interest only.
Mr and Mrs Bs desire to keep their initial costs down was documented within  the fact 
find document completed by the adviser at the time:
You wish to take the new loan out initially on an interest only basis  
so that (the) monthly cost will be lowere  (sic)
That is reiterated in the advisers  follow-up letter setting out the reasons for their 
recommendation, which also stated that:
At the moment you want to keep monthly costs as low as (possible).
Mr and Mrs Bs stated  budget for their mortgage  payments was £600 which seems 
reasonable in light of the details of their income  and expenditure that were recorded at 
the time.  The CMP for the interest only mortgage product recommended  by GEMLS  
was £518.53  so it fell within this. 
While theres no record  of what  the monthly payments wouldve been  on the 
repayment mortgage under the new rates, I think its reasonable to assume that they 
exceeded Mr and Mrs Bs budget given that  by their own admission  they deemed it 
unaffordable. And they mustve been  somewhat higher than those under the original 
product illustration (£574).  While other rates may have been  available, for comparison 
the mortgage product they ended  up with wouldve cost them  over £100  a month more 
on a repayment  basis, taking them beyond their stated budget.
It seems  to me therefore that there was a desire on Mr and Mrs Bs part to keep their 
monthly mortgage payments as low as possible and that opting for an interest  only 
mortgage facilitated this.
Ref: DRN63766863In recommending an interest only mortgage, GEMLS  still had to consider how Mr and 
Mrs B would repay the capital balance that would remain  outstanding at the end of the 
term. Mr and Mrs B say they werent given any advice in this regard. But I think the 
documentation completed at the time shows that this was discussed in some  level of 
detail. 
The fact find document  evidences  that Mr and Mrs B intended to switch  the mortgage 
to a repayment basis at the end of the fixed rate period:
 (you) are fully aware  that none  of the capital will be reducing. 
Your intention is to revert  to repayment  once  the benefit period is 
over..."
The rationale for this, as also documented in the fact find, was that both Mr and 
Mrs Bs income would increase over the coming  years. In particular, Mr B was still 
growing a relatively new business (having  been a self-employed driving instructor for 
18 months)  the notes state  an anticipated higher income linked to the launch of a 
new website. The relative infancy of the business also meant that Mr B didnt have  a 
history of accounts in order to evidence affordability for prospective lenders (who  
typically required three years accounts around the time). Their high street lender 
theyd originally applied  to, for example,  wouldve been unlikely to approve  the 
application on the strength of 18 months  trading.  In addition,  Mrs B was expecting 
annual increases to her salary (although theres nothing to suggest that this was 
anything more than incremental  rises  linked to inflation). 
The notes also reflect that Mr and Mrs B intended  to then reapply to the high street  
lender that theyd been declined with initially when  the fixed rate term expired.
The contents of this conversation were also reflected in the advisers letter  of 
recommendation:
Reasons for recommended Repayment Type
I have clearly explained the different ways  of repaying a mortgage 
and you have confirmed  that you have understood this You 
have told me that its your intention that once  Colin has a full set of 
accounts  to revert to repayment as business will have 
increased. At the moment you want to keep monthly  costs as low 
as (possible). You intend to revert to repayment  after the benefit 
period I have made you fully aware  of the new monthly costs 
when you do this and you feel that this will be affordable.
So I think that there was some discussion about  the repayment types and in particular 
that Mr and Mrs B would need to find a way of repaying the capital balance when 
opting for the interest only mortgage.  Their plans were taken into account by the 
adviser in their recommendation. And I think it was a suitable  recommendation in light 
of Mr and Mrs Bs needs and circumstances  at the time. A repayment mortgage  had 
been discounted on the basis that it was too affordable them at that point in time. They 
wanted to purchase  the property then  and benefit from the significant right to buy 
discount which provided them with the opportunity  to own their own home. So the 
interest only mortgage enabled  them to do that in an affordable way (meeting their 
objective of keeping costs down and operating  within  their specified budget)   on the 
understanding that they would switch  to a repayment basis in the near future  to repay  
Ref: DRN63766864the capital balance. And that plan seemed viable based on their circumstances at the 
time.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs concern that the interest only mortgage was only 
recommended after the change to the interest rates that were  available. That does 
seem to be what happened. But I dont  think theres anything wrong in that. Lenders 
interest rates change  frequently. As they went up, that appears to have  rendered  a 
repayment mortgage unaffordable and prompted the further review  and 
recommendation outlined above.  But Ive not found  anything to suggest  that 
recommendation was unsuitable. I know that Mr and Mrs B feel that GEMLS ought  to 
have known that interest rates were  due to fall  and that the recommendation to fix 
the rate was unsuitable in light of that. But I dont agree that it wouldve been possible 
for GEMLS (or GEMHL) to predict the unprecedented  events  and interest rate 
movement from 2008 onwards.  
I also think that GEMLS gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient information  about the 
implications of taking  out an interest only mortgage and, in particular, that the capital 
balance would remain outstanding so theyd need  to put a plan in place. As highlighted 
above, the fact find and suitability letter evidence conversations about what  an interest 
only mortgage entailed  and what Mr and Mrs B would need (and planned)  to do. There  
are also standard  provisions included within the key facts  illustration  and mortgage  
offer highlighting that the mortgage was on an interest only basis,  that the payments 
covered only the interest and none of the capital,  and that they needed  to put suitable  
arrangements in place to ensure the balance could be repaid.
From what  I understand, Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  meant that switching to a 
repayment basis was not viable when  the time arose  to review the arrangements.  I 
appreciate that will have left Mr and Mrs B in a difficult position. But for the reasons 
Ive explained,  it doesnt render the original recommendation unsuitable.
GEMHL accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr and Mrs B didnt. They thought  it had been  
bad advice to base the repayment strategy  on the hope of Mr Bs business  growing in future. 
They suggested better advice might  have been  not to take out a mortgage  at all, noting  that 
they didnt need to rush into the purchase. While they didnt recall a conversation  about  the 
sale of the property as a possible  repayment  vehicle, they thought that should also have 
been a cause for concern   as selling the property would leave them  homeless. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr and Mrs Bs further  
comments. But the points theyve raised  were, on the whole, things Id considered in 
reaching my provisional decision. So theyve not led me to a different conclusion.  Ill explain 
why.
I agree  that there was a certain level of risk in proceeding with an interest only mortgage on 
the basis that Mr and Mrs B would  look to switch to a repayment mortgage  in the future. 
Theres a level of risk in all mortgage  agreements, not least because  its such a long-term  
commitment that peoples circumstances can change in a number of ways  for a number of 
reasons that are impossible to predict. For Mr and Mrs B, it was a possibility that their 
circumstances wouldnt improve enough  to support the higher  monthly  payments as they 
hoped. 
Ref: DRN63766865But as I set out in my provisional decision,  I think that scenario was considered at the time  
and I think it was outweighed by the benefits  offered by proceeding with the interest only 
mortgage. It allowed  Mr and Mrs B to buy and own their own home.  They were able to do so 
at a significant discount. That gave  them a sizeable stake in the property   and from which  
they could benefit from any increase in value over the years that followed. 
That discount and resultant level of equity in the property  also insulated Mr and Mrs B 
somewhat from the risk of having  to sell the property, as a worst-case scenario, down the 
line. I agree  that this wouldnt  have been an ideal state of affairs, but I dont agree that it 
wouldve left them homeless. If required to sell, they would have had the benefit of any 
capital left over after settling the mortgage on any sale,  which   given the loan-to-value ratio 
(in light of the discounted purchase price)  would  most likely  have  been  a significant lump  
sum. That may have  enabled them to put the deposit down on an alternative property. But 
even if it didnt, in the worst case theyd have been  in the same position as they were  before 
purchasing their home: no longer homeowners, but tenants  although theyd have the 
benefit of the equity  as a cash sum.
As Mr and Mrs B have suggested, with a repayment mortgage considered unaffordable the 
choice appears  to have come down to whether they continued as tenants or opted  to 
purchase their own home with an interest  only mortgage. And for the reasons Ive given here 
and in my provisional  decision, I dont think it was unsuitable advice to proceed  with the 
latter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6376686