K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a credit account. Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs P says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs P opened a store card account in 1995.  Mrs P says she took out the PPI over the 
phone. But FICLs records  and Mrs Ps signed application form show  that she opened the 
account in a shop. And at the same time, Mrs P took out a PPI policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Ps card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said Mrs P 
suffered from asthma when she took the policy out. She wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful accident  or sickness claim under the policy for that condition. And the adjudicator 
thought that if FICL had given Mrs P clear enough information  about  the restriction on claims  
for existing  medical  conditions, shed have decided not to take the PPI. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs P 
and to FICL  on 29 July 2019. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Ps signed application  form for the store card. It included a section 
about PPI. It gave  brief details  of the cover, and there were equally prominent  options to 
take or decline  the cover. The box was ticked to indicate that Mrs P wished to take PPI. 
I was satisfied that FICL made it clear  that PPI was optional. And I thought  Mrs P chose 
to take it, knowing  that she didnt have  to - although I could understand why she may no 
longer remember this, so many  years later.
FICL  and Mrs P agree  that FICL  didnt advise Mrs P to take out the policy. This means  it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it did need  to make sure it gave Mrs P 
enough information to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what 
alternative means shed have  had of making  her monthly repayments if she was unable 
to work.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But I thought  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looked as 
if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably  forgotten that now, so long 
after the event.  Based on what shes  told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs P 
was eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN68296172Mrs Ps told us that shed have been  entitled to two weeks full pay from her employer at 
the time if shed been off sick. But from what we know  about  the policies FICL was 
selling at the time, if shed  made  a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness 
or unemployment,  it would have paid a monthly  benefit of 15% of what  she owed on her 
store card. And it would have  done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or 
she returned to work,  or the outstanding  balance at the time of her claim had been repaid 
- whichever  was the earliest.  Whats more,  it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments she received from her employer, including  any redundancy pay if she lost her 
job, allowing  her to use those  to cover other day-to-day expenses.
I acknowledged that Mrs Ps told us that her family and friends could have helped her 
financially if necessary. But circumstances can change, and I couldnt be sure that Mrs 
Ps family and friends would have been in a position to help if the need had arisen.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would  have been  clear 
from the application form that there  would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Id 
seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs P. And as she was 
paying for it monthly, she could  have cancelled it without any further cost if her situation 
changed.
I acknowledged that Mrs Ps told us she suffered from asthma when she applied for the 
policy. But the condition had been  diagnosed around nine years before she applied for 
the PPI. And Mrs Ps told us that it was managed with an inhaler, it didnt affect her day 
to day life and shes never had any time off work for it.
From what we know of the terms and conditions of PPI policies  that FICL was selling at 
the time,  to claim for accident  or sickness under the policy,  Mrs P would  have had to be 
off sick for at least 30 consecutive days. I thought it was unlikely that shed have  
expected to need to take that long off work for her asthma, or any condition  resulting 
from it. And she could  potentially have claimed successfully if shed lost her job, or if 
shed been off sick with any condition that didnt result from her asthma. So I wasnt  
convinced, on balance, that it was likely that Mrs Ps asthma meant that shed have 
made a different decision about  taking the PPI cover if shed been given better  
information about the exclusions relating to existing medical  conditions.  And she didnt 
appear to have  been affected by any of the other main things the policy  didnt cover.
Taking everything into account,  for the reasons Id set out, I wasnt convinced that better  
information about the PPI would have put Mrs P off taking  it out. So I didnt think shed 
lost out as a result of anything that FICL  may have done wrong.
further submissions
FICL hasnt  made any further comments following my provisional  decision. But Mrs Ps told 
us she disagrees with it. 
Mrs P says that although she had asthma, shed  never needed any time off as a result of the 
condition in her adulthood  and would not knowingly have  taken  out PPI because of it.
Ref: DRN68296173Mrs P also says that she doesnt like the comment I made in my provisional  decision about 
whether her family would have been  able to help her in the event of her not working.  Shes 
pointed out that I dont  know  her family,  so she says I shouldnt assume that they wouldnt 
have helped her. She stresses that they would have, and she says they still could, if needed.
Mrs P reiterates that she firmly believes that the policy was mis-sold to her. She says this is 
because if it had been explained  properly to her at the time, she wouldnt have agreed to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ps case.
Ill deal with Mrs Ps further comments in turn.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ps told us shes never needed any time off work  due to her asthma. 
But thats why I dont think the fact that she had asthma would have affected her decision as 
to whether to take out the policy. If I thought it likely  that Mrs P would have expected  to need 
time off work as a result of her asthma, I might have concluded that she wouldnt have taken 
the out the policy if shed  realised she couldnt  claim  for time off sick as a result of the 
condition. 
But as it is, I dont think Mrs P would have thought it was likely shed need to take time off 
work as a result of her asthma.  And the policy would still have  covered her if shed been off 
sick with any other  condition or illness, or if she lost her job. So I still think  the policy could 
have been useful to Mrs P. And I dont think the fact that she had asthma would have put her 
off taking the policy out.
As far as Mrs Ps comment about  potential  help from her family is concerned, I acknowledge 
that I dont  know  Mrs Ps family. And I dont  doubt what  she says about  their willingness to 
help her if need be. But relying on family to help out in the event of money  problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI. My comment that peoples  circumstances can change 
unexpectedly wasnt intended to apply  to Mrs Ps family in particular. It applies to everyone. 
And while Ive borne  in mind that Mrs P says her family are still in a position to be able to 
help her if necessary,  she couldnt have been sure that that would remain the case at the 
point when she took out the PPI. 
So although  Ive thought  carefully about  what Mrs Ps said,  my view remains  that it wouldnt 
have been possible  to be sure that her family would remain in a position to help her, even 
though I dont have any reason to doubt  that theyd  have been willing to do so. And I dont 
think the fact that Mrs Ps family were  willing to help made the policy  unsuitable for her.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P. But taking  everything  into account, I dont think  its likely that 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  it out. And I cant see any 
reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision. I remain  of the view 
that I cant fairly conclude  that the PPI was mis-sold to her.
Ref: DRN68296174my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6829617