K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a secured commercial loan taken out through Devon  & Cornwall  
Securities Ltd (D&CS). Mr M is unhappy at the interest rate charged and the amount he was 
required to pay to redeem  the loan in 2018.
Mr M has instructed an agent to bring the complaint for him. For ease of reference  I will refer 
to Mr M throughout.
background
On 26 April 2013, acting  on the advice of a broker and his own solicitors,  Mr M entered into 
an unregulated  secured  loan agreement with D&CS. He borrowed £463,125. The loan was 
on an open-ended basis, with payment of interest  being due monthly,  commencing 
26 May 2013. 
The interest rate for the loan was 19.30% above  Barclays Bank Plcs base rate for the time 
being, with a minimum rate of 19.80%. But the interest rate was discounted to 14.5% above  
Barclays base rate (with a minimum rate of 15%) if payment was made on the due date and 
there was no other breach  of the loan agreement.
Each month D&CS would send Mr M an invoice showing the amount to be paid and the date 
when it was due. From late 2016  Mr M was late with his repayments and on occasion  did not 
make the full repayment due. As a result, Mr M lost his entitlement  to the concessionary 
interest rate.
On 4 December  2018 the loan was redeemed.
On 18 December 2018 Mr M wrote to D&CS requesting information about  the loan, and in 
particular how interest was calculated and applied.  D&CSs solicitors  replied to say that the 
loan had been conducted in accordance  with the contract.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
said that the interest rate increased without notice  yet he was still advised  to take out the 
loan. Mr M wanted a refund of overpaid  interest.
An investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied  the account  had been  
administered in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said that interest  at 19.30% above Barclays  base rate was punitive 
and excessive. Mr M says hed have been  better  off with a payday  loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the loan agreement and Ive 
looked at what  Mr M and D&CS have  said about  this.
On his complaint  form, Mr M says that he was misadvised to take out the loan.  But D&CS 
didnt give him any advice about  the loan or sell it to him; it was arranged  through a 
mortgage broker. If Mr M believes the advice to take out this loan was unsuitable or that it 
was mis-sold, he will need to refer his concerns  back to the broker who arranged it, or his 
Ref: DRN62741452solicitor who also provided  him with advice before he committed  to the contract. As this was 
a commercial loan, it was up to Mr M to exercise  his own judgment about  whether or not he 
thought the loan, and its terms and conditions, suited him.
Turning now to the administration of the loan by D&CS, Im satisfied the documentation 
provided to Mr M is clear  about the terms of the loan, including  the interest rates and the 
circumstances in which the concessionary rate would  be available,  and when it could be 
withdrawn. If Mr M was unhappy about any of those  things  it was always  open  to him to 
reject D&CSs terms and arrange finance elsewhere. 
Mr M agreed  to D&CSs  terms and so Im satisfied he is bound by the terms of the 
agreement. I appreciate  the interest  rates are higher than rates offered by other lenders, but 
it was Mr Ms choice  to enter  into the agreement and to be bound  by D&CSs terms and 
conditions.
We dont audit accounts, but my review of the documentation doesnt  suggest there has 
been any wrongdoing by D&CS in the way its administered Mr Ms account. In the 
circumstances, although I acknowledge  Mr M later regretted his decision to enter into this 
loan agreement, Im satisfied D&CS has done  nothing wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6274145