K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed  cash withdrawals 
made from her account. 
background
Ms J says that fraudulent cash withdrawals totalling £1,408 were carried out without her 
consent. And £250 wasnt dispensed  from an ATM machine. 
Ms J explains that she gave her debit  card to her partner on the 9 March 2018. She says he 
attempted to withdraw £250 from an ATM  machine by inserting her card and PIN but the 
card wasnt  returned and he heard a crunching noise. No money was dispensed from the 
machine and the machine  shut down saying out of service.  Ms J explains that her partner  
then went into a nearby  shop and asked for contact details for the ATM provider. 
Ms J contacted Natwest that day to let them know her cash hadnt been dispensed  and her 
card was retained. A week later Ms J says she checked her online  banking  and noticed the 
£250 hadnt been reversed and theyd been  £1,408  of other  transactions which  she didnt 
authorise. 
Natwest investigated and decided not to refund  the failed ATM withdrawal but refunded  £898  
of the disputed transactions. They said:
Ms J had acted with gross negligence  in disclosing her PIN to her partner
And shed breached  the terms and conditions  of her account
But as some of disputed transactions took Ms J into her overdraft, £898 was spent 
using a credit facility. And this was refunded to Ms J.
Natwest also offered Ms J £30 in recognition  of the poor service shed received. 
As Ms J didnt agree  with Natwests decision she referred her complaint  to our service.  
After the complaint was referred  to our service Natwest refunded  the failed ATM withdrawal 
of £250. But they didnt  change their decision about the remaining £510. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Js complaint and didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, he thought that it was most  likely the transactions had been carried  out 
by someone known to Ms J  in particular someone  who knew Ms Js PIN. As Ms J had 
given her card and her PIN to her partner, our investigator concluded Ms J had failed  with 
intent to look after her security details. 
Ms J responded, saying  in summary:
The bank  didnt  contact her to query any of the transactions  even though such a 
large amount  was spent in 40 minutes
CCTV should have  been obtained to help with the investigation
She trusts  her partner and doesnt think  its unreasonable for her to give him personal 
information
Her PIN wasnt compromised by her partner being negligent
As Ms J didnt agree,  its been referred to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN66024622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why below. 
Natwest have refunded Ms J for the £250 ATM withdrawal  where the cash  didnt dispense 
 and £898 of the disputed withdrawals which was refunded  because  it was credit. So Ive 
not looked into these two parts of Ms Js complaint. Instead Im focusing on the £510 
Natwest havent refunded.  
Natwest can hold Ms J liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests its more  
likely than not she failed  with intent to look after her security  details.  
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence that Ms Js genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But, I need  to think about how a fraudster obtained  Ms Js 
card and PIN  and whether  she failed with intent to look after her security details. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Natwest  to conclude that Ms J failed 
within intent to look after her security details. This is because:
Ms J has confirmed  she gave her card and PIN to her partner on the day of the 
disputed withdrawals 
Ms Js explained that there was nobody behind  her partner  when he entered  the PIN. 
Im unable  to see a convincing explanation for how an unknown  third party could  
have obtained  her PIN
The only plausible explanation is that Ms Js partner carried out the transactions 
Ms J responded to the view and said the bank should have contacted her to query  the 
transactions. Ive thought about  Ms Js argument on this  and banks do have a 
responsibility to protect their customers from potential  fraud.  But Im afraid  it doesnt  change 
my view. The £510  which remains disputed  were the first disputed withdrawals from 
Ms Js account and at this stage I wouldnt have expected it to trigger  Natwests  fraud  
prevention measures.
Ms J also raised the possibility of CCTV being  obtained  and its possible that CCTV might 
have identified somebody else carrying out the withdrawals. But even if this was the case  
Id still need a convincing explanation for how unknown third party obtained  Ms Js PIN. 
In summary  Im satisfied  its more likely  than not that Ms Js partner carried  out the disputed 
withdrawals  in giving her partner  the card and PIN Ms J has failed with intent to look after 
her security  details. And shes breached the terms and conditions of her account. It follows 
that Natwest is entitled to hold Ms J liable for them. 
my final decision
my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Ref: DRN66024623Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6602462