K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Yorkshire Building Society  (trading as Chelsea Building Society) mis-sold
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C bought a PPI policy by phone in 2006 to protect his mortgage  repayments. The
policy gave him accident, sickness  and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount
for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Chelsea Building Society had to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional  and he 
had to agree  to take it out. The society says Mr C applied  by phone. It has provided the PPI 
declaration form that was completed during the call. Mr C disputes this and says that he 
would not have been able to have received a call at the time and date the bank has said.  He 
has given no explanation as to why not. Mr C also says the time captured on the banks 
records (the Chelsea  Payment Protection  Declaration form) shows  the sale was completed  
at 10.16am,  before  the call was made  at 10.21am (as shown on the screen shot).  And he 
says this supports  his argument that no call took place and an adviser just completed the 
form. 
The society  no longer  has a call recording  or transcript but thats not surprising or 
unreasonable as the sale was so long ago. But it has explained that the 10.21am shown on 
the screen shot is not the time of the call either  starting  or ending, but the time the adviser 
made any system notes  or amendments  which  could have been done after the call. I think  
this is a reasonable explanation. And I havent been able to find enough other  evidence  to 
support Mr Cs claim that the Chelsea Payment Protection Declaration  form was completed 
fraudulently.
Mr C also says the banks  letter of 28 April 2006 supports his point that no call was made as 
it states we have been unable to contact  you. But this letter is not about  PPI. It relates 
solely to Building  and Contents  insurance  and so isnt relevant here.
I have considered Mr Cs comments carefully  but I also have  to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what he recalls. On balance,  given the societys  
records, I think it is more likely than not that a call took place between the parties. 
Ref: DRN65898312I cant know how the PPI was presented to Mr C on the call, but Ive looked  at the paperwork 
available from the sale. In Mr Cs mortgage offer it says You are not obliged to take out any 
insurance through Chelsea  Building Society , it makes clear only buildings  insurance  is a 
condition of the mortgage, and it lists PPI under the heading Optional Insurance . It sets out 
the cost of the PPI separately. So I would have expected Mr C to have contacted  the society  
when he received this offer if he hadnt agreed  to take out PPI.  
Overall, I think Chelsea  Building Society made it clear to Mr C that the policy was optional,
and he chose to take it. I can understand he might  not remember  this given how long ago 
the sale was.
Mr C says he didnt need the PPI. But Chelsea Building Society  didnt recommend the policy 
to Mr C so it didnt have  to check the policy  was right for hm. However, it had to give clear, 
fair and not misleading information  about  the PPI so that he could make  a properly informed 
choice.
There might  have been areas in which Chelsea Building Society didnt  give Mr C as much 
information as it shouldve done.  But I dont  think better information wouldve put him off 
taking out the PPI. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main 
things not covered  by the policy.
Mr C told us he was entitled  to at least 12 months sick pay from his job in the family 
business, but his father has said there  was no employment contract. So his sick pay 
entitlement wasnt guaranteed, which means  I cant fairly conclude  it meant  he didnt 
have a need for PPI. The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any work benefits 
and for up to 12 months for successful  sickness and accident claims. It also gave  him 
up to 12 months redundancy cover. Overall, given the serious  consequences  of 
missing mortgage repayments, I think the policy couldve provided useful cover for
Mr C if he was sick or lost his job.
I dont know at what stage during the sale the cost was first made  clear.  It was set 
out in the mortgage  offer.  And the PPI was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable.
It follows I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6589831