K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains R Raphael & Sons  Plc will not refund money  which an ATM failed to 
dispense.
background
Whilst abroad in August  2018, Mr C says he tried to withdraw some money from an ATM 
using his pre-paid currency card.  He wanted to withdraw 500 Euros   but says that the 
money did not dispense.  He went  into the bank which the ATM  was attached  to and was 
told it should re-credit his account in a few days.
He then complained to Raphaels  about the failed transaction some three days  later.   He 
was told that the money would be credited to his account temporarily  whilst it carried  out an 
investigation.
In October  2018, it issued  its findings  to Mr C.  It said it had carried out a chargeback 
procedure in relation to the complaint and had spoken to the ATM owner.  The  owner had 
confirmed that the money did in fact dispense  on that day  ten notes  of 50 euros each.
Based on this evidence,  Raphaels debited  the money from Mr Cs account.
When Mr C brought his complaint to this service,  our investigator  thought  Raphaels  had not 
dealt with his complaint  fairly.  He (the investigator) asked for further evidence in support of 
the ATM transaction  such as evidence of the purge bin on that day. That evidence was not 
available and Raphaels thought they had provided sufficient information to decline this 
complaint.
Our investigator proposed an offer of £250  in settlement of Mr Cs complaint but neither 
party agreed and the matter was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I have  arrived  at a different outcome than the one proposed  by 
the investigator and I intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
The investigator is right  this service  would expect to see additional evidence to the journal 
roll before making a decision about  this complaint.  That  evidence  is normally by way of the 
purge bin which would  show whether the ATM  did in fact dispense  all the notes which  the roll 
says it did.
ATMs are not infallible pieces of machinery and often, a journal roll will suggest all 
transactions were  completed successfully  and yet there are notes  in the purge bin.
In the circumstances of this case,  on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr C did 
not receive his money and so I intend to uphold his complaint.  In  addition, I am awarding 
compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN62070242my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207024