K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed its accounts and 
appointed debt collectors. S is represented  by its director, who Ill call Mr A.  
background
HSBC closed Ss accounts  in early 2018.  Mr A says HSBC closed the accounts because  it 
said they were dormant, but this wasnt correct  S was between  business contracts. He 
says HSBC passed the account to debt collectors who harass him and threaten  to spoil his 
credit record. Mr A says adverse information  on his credit  file will prevent him working.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said:
HSBC wrote to S in 2017 asking it for up to date information. This was part of its 
safeguard review, which is intended to protect  customers from fraud  and financial crime. 
HSBC says as it didnt receive  a response  it gave notice and closed Ss accounts. Our 
investigator said HSBC was entitled to ask for the information  from S and to give notice 
to close its account.
HSBC also wrote to S about its overdraft from mid 2017. It said that further  action would 
be taken if it didnt  get a response, including recording  information  with credit reference  
agencies and moving the accounts to collections. When the accounts were closed, the 
debt became due.
HSBC confirmed any data would be recorded  on Ss credit file. So this shouldnt affect 
Mr As ability  to work.
Our investigator said HSBC gave  S reasonable opportunity to respond  and explained the 
consequences of not responding. It didnt act unfairly.
S didnt  agree. Mr A said HSBC acted  unfairly  when it closed Ss account.  Mr A said HSBC 
renewed the overdraft  and S stayed within the limit. He says HSBC should have waited for 
him to get back to work  so S could repay the overdraft instead of causing irreparable 
damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The terms and conditions  of Ss account  say that HSBC can close the account by giving  two 
months notice. HSBC sent a closure notice  to S in November 2017.  It closed Ss account in 
January 2018.  
While HSBC didnt have  to give a reason, it said it closed Ss accounts following  a review of 
the accounts.
Ref: DRN66674372As HSBC had given  the required notice, I dont think it made an error when it closed Ss 
accounts. In some circumstances, I might  find that a bank acted unfairly  when closing a 
customers account even  if it gave the required notice. But thats  not the case  here.
HSBC had written to S from mid 2017  about its safeguard  review.  In September 2017 it 
asked Mr A to complete  an online form. It said it might close the account if it didnt receive up 
to date information within 60 days.  HSBC  then gave two months notice. I think  HSBC gave S 
a reasonable opportunity to respond  to its request for up to date information before it closed 
its accounts.
When the accounts were  closed the debts  the overdraft on Ss business account  and the 
balance on its credit card account  became  due. 
HSBC had written to S about the overdraft from mid 2017. It sent reminders and default 
notices. It explained  what further action could  be taken, including  recording information with 
credit reference agencies and passing the accounts to debt collectors. 
HSBC wrote to S in early 2018 about  its accounts  being dormant. But this isnt the reason 
the accounts were  closed.  This didnt affect the closure  notice that had already been sent.
I think HSBC was entitled to close Ss accounts and to ask S to repay the debt it owed. I 
dont think HSBC acted  unfairly in doing so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667437