K821x#15complaint
Mr F says HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  him a single premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
HSBC sold Mr F the PPI policy with a loan he took out in 1999. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think  HSBC had 
made the cancellation terms of the policy clear  enough for Mr F to make an informed choice 
about taking out the policy  and given Mr Fs circumstances at the time she didnt think  the 
policy was a suitable recommendation. 
HSBC disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
When selling  PPI HSBC  at the very least needed  to give information about PPI in a clear,  fair 
and not misleading way to make sure Mr F was in a position to make  an informed decision 
about whether  he wanted PPI. An important part of the information that needed  to be given 
is how a single premium  policy  worked  and the cancellation terms of the policy.
The cost of a single  premium policy is added to the loan and attracts  interest over the length 
of the loan. According to the terms of Mr Fs policy if he cancelled  the PPI early  although 
he wouldve got some  money back - he wouldnt have got a pro-rata refund. Because of the 
way the refund wouldve  been worked out Mr F would end up paying for something he didnt 
get the benefit from and wouldve lost money.  
The policy was to cover  a graduate loan for a term of 48 months. Mr F says he took the loan 
out to pay for rent and the deposit on a flat. Taking this all into consideration I think its more 
likely than not that Mr Fs circumstances would  change within the loan term. And I think  Mr F 
wouldve wanted the flexibility to pay the loan off early. (And  as it happens  Mr F did pay his 
loan off early.)  
I think the fact that Mr F wouldnt get a pro-rata  refund if he repaid his loan early was 
important information  that shouldve been  made  clear to him before he agreed to buy the 
policy.
HSBC havent  been able to confirm how the policy was sold which is understandable 
considering the time that has passed. So I dont know what information  was given to Mr F 
about the policy at the time it was sold. But I think if Mr F had understood that he would lose 
money if he refinanced  or paid off his loan early he wouldnt have agreed  to buy it. 
Ref: DRN61845992So I dont  think HSBC  gave Mr F enough  information about how much  of a refund he 
wouldve got if he cancelled the policy early for him to make an informed choice about 
buying the policy and I think Mr F has lost out as a result of this.
what HSBC should  do to put things right
Mr F borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan is bigger than it shouldve been. And hes 
been paying more than he shouldve  each month.  So Mr F needs  to get back the extra  hes 
paid and start paying what  he shouldve been paying all along.  
So, HSBC  should:  
-Work  out and pay Mr F the difference between what he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr F paid each month  from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on.
-Show Mr F how it worked this out. 
-If Mr F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to 
pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6184599