K822xcomplaint
Miss J complains  that Society of Lloyds settled  claims against her motor insurance policy 
against her wishes  and without informing her. She also says it didnt respond properly to her 
concerns about  these  issues.  All references to Lloyds include  its agents.
background 
Miss Js car was in an accident involving two other cars in September 2017 as she moved 
from a side street into a main road.  She says it wasnt her fault, but Lloyds got conflicting  
accounts from others (including an independent  witness). On 16 October  2017  Lloyds  told 
Miss J that it intended to accept liability, subject to her response.  Miss J replied giving full 
details of why she wasnt at fault. She says she heard  nothing  further from Lloyds.  Miss J 
says she found  out that the claims had been  settled against her in March  2018 because her 
renewal premium rose in June 2018. Miss J has made a separate complaint about that.
Lloyds says it wrote to Miss J on 23 October  2017,  having noted her reply to its first letter. It 
advised her that she had no independent evidence of her version of events. Miss J emailed 
Lloyds on the same day, again disputing liability. On 27 October 2017 Lloyds wrote  to her 
again to say its litigation team had agreed  with the decision not to defend the claims.  
Miss J said had she been told in March 2018  that Lloyds was settling  the claims, shed have 
used her legal expenses insurance policy to defend  them in court. She said they were 
fraudulent. She was also unhappy that Lloyds hadnt initially  told her about  the witness.
One of our adjudicators considered the way Lloyds  had handled  the issues Miss J was 
concerned about.  He thought it had acted reasonably and had kept Miss J informed  about  its 
decisions. He advised Miss J that her legal  expenses cover was meant to be used to recover 
uninsured losses,  not to defend the claims. 
After the adjudicators involvement, Lloyds accepted  that it hadnt told Miss J the claim  was 
closed in March  2018. It offered her £50 compensation for that oversight. Miss J later said 
she hadnt received  the adjudicators review of her complaint. She said Lloyds  had wrongly 
claimed to have sent her a final letter about  liability  and had wrongly said that shed replied 
to all of its letters. Miss J insisted that shed  used a legal expenses policy to contest liability 
in a previous claim. The adjudicator said he couldnt  comment on a previous policy or claim. 
He said he was satisfied  that Lloyds had written to Miss J as it had claimed. 
Miss J asked  for a review of her complaint by an ombudsman.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Miss J can show that Lloyds failed to keep her informed, or that it ignored her 
account of events. Its file notes show that it wrote to Miss J three times in October  2017.  It 
responded to her comments on its first letter to her. Miss J may not have seen  two of Lloyds 
communications, but I think  its more likely than not that they were  sent.   
Miss J was aware from the letter Lloyds sent to her on 16 October  2017 what it was minded 
to do. She gave  a full account  of her view of the accident to it shortly  afterwards  and made 
Ref: DRN66155412further comments to it by email on 23 October 2017.  Given  the timing of that email, Lloyds 
may have  thought it was a reply to its second  email.  Theres no sign of a reply from Miss J to 
Lloyds third letter, so I think  Lloyds was mistaken  if it believed shed responded to that. 
As Miss J was concerned about how liability  would  be settled, if she hadnt heard from 
Lloyds for several  months, after twice sending it her comments, I think  it would have been 
reasonable for her to query why not. It isnt clear why she didnt do that.
I dont think the lack of a further response from Miss J made a difference  to the outcome. 
Lloyds knew what her version of events  was. I dont think  it was required to ensure that she 
provided ongoing responses  before  settling  the claims. And in making a decision on liability,  
Lloyds had to consider  the circumstances of the accident, as well as Miss Js account and 
those of other parties. Lloyds didnt advise Miss J initially  that there was an independent 
witness. That seems to have been an oversight, which it has since  apologised for. But I think 
that evidence   from a person walking past when the accident  happened   was persuasive. 
The independent witness thought Miss B drove into the side of one car and caused it to 
collide with a second, stationary car. The driver  of the second car didnt see what had 
happened. The driver of the first car said Miss J changed lanes when it wasnt  safe to do so. 
His car was hit in the side. His account fits with what the independent witness  thought  and 
with the sketch  she drew  of the incident. I dont think it makes  any difference that Miss J 
didnt know there was a witness  initially  the witnesss  evidence is on Lloyds file. 
Under the policy Lloyds is entitled to decide how to settle any claim. I think it was 
reasonable for it to do so as it did here. From what Ive seen, it noted all the evidence and 
consulted its litigation team. It decided there wasnt a reasonable prospect of defending  the 
matter in court. Although Miss J says the driver of the first car made a dangerous manoeuvre 
and struck  her car, theres no independent  evidence of that. Nor is there anything to show 
that the claims were  fraudulent, as Miss J maintains. 
It seems  Lloyds  usually tells consumers when claims are settled.  It accepts that it should 
have told Miss J - hence its offer of £50 compensation, which I think is reasonable. Lloyds 
isnt able to give her personal  details relating to the other  parties, but I think  it could have told 
her what  the overall  cost of the settlement was if she asked about it. Miss J may think the 
sum Lloyds  paid will affect her future premiums, but thats  not likely.    
I dont think Miss J can show that she faced an adverse outcome due to Lloyds not telling 
her about  the settlement in March  2018.  Had she wanted to take out other  insurance, the 
open claim would have been  treated by other  insurers as a fault claim until it was resolved in 
Miss Js favour. So Lloyds oversight wouldnt have led to Miss J misrepresenting the facts to 
another insurer, as she believes. And I dont  think Miss J could have used her legal 
expenses policy to defend the claims. Legal expenses  policies  are normally used to recover  
uninsured losses.  Miss Js policy says it covers  uninsured losses such  as personal injury,  the 
policy excess, a replacement vehicle and damage to personal  items. 
I think Lloyds acted  reasonably in its claims-handling and in making its decision on liability. I 
think it has made a reasonable attempt to put right its omission in not informing Miss J of the 
settlement in March  2018. So I cant uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN66155413my final decision
My final decision is that Society of Lloyds should  settle this complaint,  as it has already 
offered to do, by paying Miss J £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6615541