K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  failed to provide his 
financial advisor with sufficient information  when  he was instructing the crystallisation of 
some pension benefits. As a result he has needed  to pay additional  income tax on his 
benefits.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued last month. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Prudential has confirmed that it 
accepts my provisional decision. Mr Ps representative (Mr L) has provided some further 
comments. Although  I am only summarising here what Mr L has said, I have considered  his 
entire response carefully before  writing this decision.
Mr L thinks that Prudential  has failed to fully appreciate  the financial impact  these  problems 
had on Mr P. He has provided  us with details of Mr Ps financial position to show  the 
additional income tax that Mr P needed to pay in tax year 2018/2019. And he has reminded 
us that Mr P took out a personal loan in 2018  when he was unable  to take any further tax 
free income from his pension.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have reached the 
same conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision.
I have looked  at the information Mr L has sent us about Mr Ps tax position following this 
problem. That information supports  my original conclusions about the impact of this problem 
on Mr P. But I think that the redress I have  proposed  here, and that Prudential  has agreed to 
pay, will ensure that the additional tax Mr P has needed to pay will be refunded  to him. And 
when Mr P receives the additional tax free cash he will be able to repay the personal loan 
that he needed to take in 2018  and the interest  that I am directing Prudential  to pay to Mr P 
will far exceed the interest he has needed  to pay on that personal loan.
I uphold this complaint  and Prudential needs  to put things right.
putting things right
I direct  Prudential  to;
Reverse part of the original crystallisation event, only crystallising sufficient funds to 
generate the PCLS paid to Mr P in May 2017.
Reverse the taxable withdrawal made  by Mr P in April 2018. Crystallise  sufficient  
further funds to enable a PCLS to be paid equivalent to the net amount paid to Mr P 
that month.
Crystallise  any remaining funds and pay a final PCLS  to Mr P with effect from 
1 August 2018. (A)
Ref: DRN60677792Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the amount due at (A) from the date 
it should have  been paid to the date of settlement*.
Pay an additional  £500 to Mr P in respect  of the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused to him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential  
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct  The Prudential  Assurance 
Company Limited  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60677793EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide his financial  advisor 
with sufficient  information when he was instructing the crystallisation of some pension  benefits. As a 
result he has needed to pay additional income tax on his benefits.
background
Mr P has been helped in making  his complaint by his financial advisor. But for simplicity I will 
generally refer to all communication as having been with Mr P himself.
In early 2017 Mr P held around  £470,000 of pension funds with Prudential.  He instructed his financial 
advisor to crystallise some of those funds in order that he could take a Pension Commencement  
Lump Sum (PCLS). Under the tax regulations at that time Mr P was able to take up to 25% of his total 
pension savings as a PCLS which would be paid free of income tax.
Rather than the 25% he was allowed, Mr P only wanted to take 17.5%  of his fund at that time.  He 
says he intended to take the remaining 7.5% the following  year. So in May 2017 Prudential paid a 
PCLS to Mr P of £82,561.45.
The system that Mr Ps advisor used to instruct the transaction to Prudential was relatively new.  So 
Mr Ps advisor says it took advice from Prudential before completing  the instruction   though 
Prudential hasnt been able to trace the call that Mr Ps advisor says was made. But the instruction 
that was ultimately  given  to Prudential asked for the whole of Mr Ps pension funds to be moved  into 
drawdown. That resulted  in Mr P losing his entitlement to the additional PCLS  of approximately 
£35,000.
Mr P didnt become  aware of this problem  until he asked to take a further PCLS in February  2018.  At 
that time Prudential explained what had happened  the previous year. But Prudential told him that 
since this wasnt an error by Prudential  it wasnt able, under HMRC regulations, to reverse the 
transaction. As a result Mr P, who needed the cash to complete a house purchase,  took a further 
taxable withdrawal from his pension. I understand that there  were  some issues with the timing  of that 
payment, but these have been addressed as part of a separate complaint,  and so I wont deal with 
them in this decision.
Mr P says that later that year, in August  2018, he had been planning  to take the remainder  of his 
available tax free cash to buy new furnishings for his recently purchased property.  Given the ongoing 
issues with Prudential, and the lack of ability to take additional tax free cash Mr P took a personal loan 
for £15,000.
One of our adjudicators  has looked at Mr Ps complaint.  He thought  that Prudential  should  have given  
better support  and information to Mr Ps advisor  when it was completing the transaction request. So 
he asked Prudential to pay Mr P some compensation  equivalent  to the additional tax he would need 
to pay. Prudential  didnt  accept that assessment so the complaint was referred  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
When I first started considering the complaint  I thought that our adjudicator had underestimated the 
additional tax that Mr P might need to pay. So I informally wrote to Prudential,  and Mr P, with some 
early suggestions on putting things right.  In response to that email Prudential  revisited what had 
happened in 2017 and advised that it now considered  it would  be acceptable, under  HMRC 
regulations, for the transaction  to be reversed. And Mr P also provided some additional information  on 
what he thought might be appropriate  redress  here.
Ref: DRN60677794my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
In deciding this complaint I have taken account of the submissions that have been made by Mr P and 
by Prudential. Where the evidence  is unclear,  or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words  I have  looked at what  evidence  we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what I think  is more likely to have happened.
At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
It is agreed by all parties that the transaction that was input by Mr Ps advisor in January  2017 was 
incorrect. But what I need  to decide here is whether that transaction followed advice from Prudential, 
or whether  Prudential  should have asked  more  questions when the instruction had been submitted.
Taking a tax free PCLS is a significant benefit for pension savings.  It generally  allows consumers to 
make a large saving on the income  tax they would  need to pay when taking some of their pension 
benefits. So I think it would  be unusual  if consumers  didnt take advantage  of that benefit  either  by 
taking the entire 25% allowed  at the outset,  or leaving funds uncrystallised so the benefit could be 
taken later.
I have no doubts that Mr P intended to take the remaining  7.5% PCLS at a later date. And given the 
recent introduction  of the Prudential processing  system, and the relatively  uncommon nature of what 
Mr P was asking to do, I think it likely that Mr Ps advisor sought advice from Prudential before 
instructing the transaction. So given  the transaction was input  incorrectly it would seem reasonable to 
conclude that advice didnt  give the advisor  all the information that was needed.
Ive also considered whether  Prudential  should have done  more to make Mr P aware  of the fact that 
his instruction would result in the loss of his ability  to take the maximum  PCLS. In doing  so I have 
taken into account that Prudential now says it has added a warning to its systems so that this sort of 
situation would be highlighted in the future.  So that would lead me to conclude that Prudential has 
also considered that this situation, although admittedly rare, might be an unexpected consequence of 
the design  of its systems.
So on balance I dont think Mr P or his advisor  should  be held responsible for the loss of the additional  
PCLS entitlement. I think that responsibility sits with Prudential either  as a result of the advice and 
guidance it gave to Mr Ps advisor  before  the transaction was input, or as a result of the design of its 
new processing system and the lack of appropriate  warning messages.  So I intend to uphold the 
complaint.
When the mistake  was first discovered Mr P asked Prudential to reverse the transaction. Prudential 
declined to do so, saying it was prevented  from taking that action due to HMRC  regulations. But more 
recently Prudential has considered it would be allowed to reverse the transaction. It is very 
disappointing that Prudential didnt  make that assessment  earlier  either  when  Mr P first complained, 
or throughout the time that we have been considering the complaint. 
Ref: DRN60677795It seems to me that reversing the transaction, and allowing Mr P to take the additional  PCLSs that he 
intended to take in 2018, would be the most appropriate way of correcting this issue.  But I am mindful 
that doing  so will have a number of knock on consequences that Prudential will need to satisfy itself 
can be managed appropriately;
Mr P took a further lump sum withdrawal in 2018. That should have  formed  part of the 
remaining PCLS allowance, so that transaction  will also need to be reversed and paid to Mr P 
free of income tax.
The remainder of the PCLS  allowance should be paid to Mr P with effect  from August  2018.  
That was the date at which he took a personal  loan for £15,000 instead of a further withdrawal 
from his pension benefits.
The investment returns on the residual funds will need to be recalculated  to reflect the 
reduced withdrawal in April 2018 and the reduction  in the capital  balance in August 2018.
I have considered the impact  of the personal loan that Mr P took in August  2018.  I can see from the 
documentation he provided to us that the APR on that loan is 2.9%. In my redress I will be directing 
Prudential to add 8% simple interest to the additional  PCLS payments it is making.  I consider that will 
be more  than sufficient to compensate Mr P for the interest he has needed to pay in respect of the 
personal loan and any knock on effects such  as changes to his credit rating  from needing to take the 
loan.
I have no doubts that this matter has caused Mr P a significant amount of trouble and upset. And 
I think  that upset was increased by Prudentials initial refusal  to reverse the transaction   something 
that it now says would  have been appropriate. So I intend to direct  Prudential to pay an additional 
sum of £500  to Mr P.
Ref: DRN6067779