K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to provide him with funding despite previous  
assurances. He says this failure  caused  him significant financial loss when the trading 
position of a family business changed  significantly  and any enforcement  proceedings against  
a third party became  impractical.
background
Mr Bs representative says that HSBCs  failure  to process a funding application and provide 
the required funding, despite  previous  assurances,  caused Mr B significant  problems.  Mr Bs 
representative says:
In early 2016 HSBC  visited Mr B at home to discuss  his funding needs   he wanted a 
loan to buy out a fellow shareholder;
Mr B was told that a proposal would need to be put to the banks credit department, 
but there shouldnt  be a problem  as his business  (A) was profitable  and there  was 
plenty of equity;
Mr B chased the bank  after a few weeks because hed heard nothing and the bank 
representative arranged a second home visit because hed forgotten the figures;
the same  financial figures were  provided  to the bank and the same assurances  given  
by the bank;
in the absence of any progress, the bank made a third home visit for the same 
reason as the previous  visits  and with the same  outcome;
that for most of 2016, the bank representative didnt return Mr Bs telephone calls or 
respond to his emails  and in the absence  of funding  from HSBC,  Mr B approached 
another bank  and secured  finance  in late 2016;
during his dealings with HSBC,  the financial position of A changed materially and 
adversely leading to the ultimate  failure of A; and
if HSBC had dealt  with Mr B in a timely  manner,  the issues  with A would not have  
arisen. 
HSBC rejected this complaint. It confirmed its representative had informal  discussions about 
finance with Mr B but that at no time was a formal or an informal  offer made. It says it never 
made a formal offer for funding because the matters being discussed  never  progressed  to 
the formal application stage.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that shed seen  no evidence  from either  party  confirming a commitment by HSBC  
to provide funding  for Mr Bs proposal. She acknowledged that emails provided by Mr B and 
his representative  indicated loan discussions took place but there was nothing to suggest 
these progressed to a proper application  for funding.
Mr Bs representative disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.  He says Mr B isnt 
complaining that funding  was refused  he says he understands that is the banks 
prerogative. But he says that Mr B understood he had made  an application for funding and 
had done so on three occasions. He says in full knowledge of the circumstances, all the 
indications given to Mr B were positive  and nothing was said that caused him any concern  
at all times Mr B was given  assurances that HSBC would support him.
Ref: DRN65361592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Mr B wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that. Mr B and his representative should note, however, 
that although I may not address each individual point that theyve raised, I have given careful 
consideration to all of their submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having considered the evidence, Im afraid I have to tell Mr B that I think the adjudicator  has 
reached entirely the right outcome theme. To be honest, theres  very little I can add to what 
shes already said and I think the adjudicator  has set out the position very clearly.
First of all its important that I explain  that this service doesnt supervise,  regulate or 
discipline the businesses  we cover. And my role isnt to punish or penalise  businesses for 
their performance or behaviour  thats  the role of the regulator, in this case the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  So with this in mind,  it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to comment  on 
HSBCs funding application  processes generally  and I dont  have the power to interview 
HSBCs current  or former employees  or any other individuals  I cant cross-examine them  
or compel  them to give evidence.
Its clear to me from what  Ive read that this must have  been a very stressful  and frustrating 
period for Mr B and I understand from his representatives testimony that his plan was to 
seek additional funding  from HSBC to facilitate buying out the shareholding in A of another 
family member. 
Im satisfied that the three  home visits took place  but I think, on balance,  these  were  
preliminary discussions about Mr Bs funding needs  and requirements.  I can understand if 
Mr B feels  that the level of information he provided,  on three separate occasions,  led him to 
believe he was formally progressing an application for funding and that hed secured a 
commitment from the bank to support him. But Ive seen no evidence from either Mr B or his 
representative, or from HSBC, that funding was agreed; formally or informally.  And theres 
no documentation that shows an application  for funding was actually completed.
Moreover, one of the emails Ive seen, sent by Mr Bs representative to HSBC  in late 2016 
says Are you able to indicate what is required for a formal offer to be made and when a 
decision/offer is likely?... I think this email  indicates  that at this time Mr B and his 
representative were  aware that no formal offer for funding  had been  made  by the bank  
because an application  for funding hadnt  yet been completed by Mr B and a decision about 
whether to offer funding had still to be taken by HSBC.
I dont doubt that Mr B experienced  the financial turn of events that he says he did during 
2016. But on the basis of what Ive seen  and read,  I cant hold HSBC responsible for this  
Ive simply seen no evidence that assurances were given by the bank indicating  that it would 
support or fund Mr Bs plan to purchase  the shareholding of another family member.
So, for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN65361593my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6536159