K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED applied unfair damage 
charges when he voluntarily terminated  his hire purchase agreement (HPA).
background 
Mr B entered into a HPA with Startline to acquire a vehicle in April 2016. In March 2018 he 
voluntarily terminated  his HPA. The return of the vehicle was subject to an inspection and he 
says he was told that normal wear and tear would  be taken into account and that only 
damage caused by him while he had possession of the vehicle would be charged for. The 
damage report resulted  in damage  charges of over £1,800.
Mr B says that some of the charges applied were  for wear  and tear issues  and that the other 
damage recorded was not a result of his actions. He says that the vehicle was second  hand 
at acquisition and so he didnt expect it to be in pristine condition.  He said the damage  
recorded in the report was minor and present at the point of supply. He says he asked for a 
copy of the damage  report  from the original acquisition of the vehicle but his request  was 
ignored.
Startline says that the information provided at the point of supply  says that the consumer 
should visually inspect  the vehicle prior to signing the agreement and if they are dissatisfied 
in anyway then they should let Startline know. It says Mr B didnt contact it to raise  any 
issues. 
Startline says it initially didnt accept the charges should be reduced but then offered, as a 
gesture of goodwill, to reduce the amount to £743.90. This amount consists  of the scratched 
front screen (£253.79); headlining soiled  and requiring a valet (£50.00); and a headlamp 
replacement (£440.11).
Our adjudicator thought the offer made  by Startline  to reduce the charges to £743.90 was 
reasonable and that the damage being charged for fell outside of normal  wear and tear. 
Mr B didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said he wouldnt have called to report  the 
damage as it was minor.  He said he didnt notice the scratch on the windscreen at the time 
and wasnt aware  of an issue with the headlight.  He said if there was damage  present it 
wasnt caused by him and there  wasnt evidence to say it was. He said he was told that he 
wouldnt be charged for normal wear and tear and said he wasnt prepared to pay for 
damage not caused by him
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B acquired a used  car in 2016 and so it is reasonable that he wouldnt have expected  this 
to have been in pristine  condition. He says that damage was present but this was minor and 
so he didnt report it but now he is being  charged. He has also challenged the initial  charges 
asking whether certain of these were covered by fair wear and tear.
Mr B voluntarily terminated his HPA and following this an inspection  was carried out. This is 
what would  be expected in this situation.  The inspection  raised  a number of issues, however 
Ref: DRN60131382as Startline has offered  to reduce  the initial charges to £743.90, consisting of three individual  
charges, I have focussed on these.
The photograph in the inspection report shows the scratch  on the front screen.  I have looked 
at the industry  guidelines regarding fair wear and tear and it says in regard to the windscreen 
that light scratching  can be acceptable. Looking at the photograph provided the scratching is 
clearly visible and covers a large area on the drivers side. Therefore I accept that this falls 
outside of normal  wear and tear. I think on balance had this been present at the point of 
supply, Mr B would  have raised this. Therefore, I find it reasonable that this charge has been 
applied.
The next charge relates to the headlining being  soiled. Again this is clearly visible in the 
photograph and I dont think it unreasonable that a charge was applied. I appreciate Mr Bs 
comments about this being present at the point of supply and him not minding. However,  
given this wasnt raised at the point of supply  and without  further  evidence  I do not find I can 
say this charge  is unreasonable  
Finally a charge  for a replacement  headlamp was applied. Mr B has said he wasnt  aware of 
an issue with the headlamp. I asked for a clearer photograph to be sent of the headlamp  to 
assess any damage. From the photograph it appears that there is condensation in the 
headlamp which supports  there being some damage. I accept that cracks to the headlamp  
would fall outside of the wear and tear and so, on balance,  given  the evidence  provided, I do 
not find I can say this charge has been  unfairly applied.
I understand why Mr B is upset by the charges that have been applied  and his concerns that 
certain damage was present at the point of supply. But based on the evidence I have seen I 
do not find I can say the charges that Startline is currently applying (following the reduction) 
are unfair.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to 
reduce the charges to £743.90 (to include  the scratched front screen;  soiled headlining and 
headlamp) is reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013138