K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC wont refund payments that he says he didnt 
authorise.
background
Mr W lives abroad but has bank accounts at Barclays in this country.  He uses  an online 
money transfer business to send money  to himself in the local currency. He pays  for it using  
his Barclays debit card. Mr W disputes seven  payments made through  the money  transfer 
business which totalled £9,411.50. These  were  sent between 5 February  and 28 February 
2018. He says these were  all sent to a different country to the one he lives in. 
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding this money.  The money transfer  business  had the 
correct personal details for Mr W. And for each  payment the debit card number, expiry date 
and the CVV three-digit security number would have been  captured.  It also thought that a 
fraudster would likely have taken  money  as quickly as possible and not over the course of 
three weeks. And it said that Mr W didnt cancel  his card until 28 March 2018.  These  facts  
suggested that he had authorised the payments.
Mr W didnt agree with Barclays decision,  so he asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that Mr W had told 
her that his card was safely  locked away in a drawer at home.  And that his account details 
were kept safe too. The password on his account  with the money transfer business hadnt 
been changed. She set out a table for Mr W with the time and date of the disputed 
payments. One of them was relatively small for £101.90 and she thought that unusual  for a 
fraudster. And she also showed in the table that Mr W had logged on to his online banking  at 
Barclays at around the time as two of the payments, suggesting he wasnt only aware of 
them but had authorised  them.
Mr W, who is represented in this complaint, didnt agree.  He said that Barclays had evidence  
that his card was used  by someone  else. He thought  that the money transfer business had 
confirmed that the money had been sent from this country to a third country by a man also in 
the UK. He said that a letter hed received from a credit reference agency  about some of his 
details being compromised showed  how common such an occurrence  was. Mr W said he 
reported this when he first became aware  of it. He explained that he had two bank accounts 
at Barclays and only accessed the one used for the disputed payments at the end of the 
month for his accountant. He said did not look at the detail for that account when he logged  
on. He thought any suggestion hed given his card details to someone else was ridiculous. 
He believes his details  were stolen after the third party had hacked into his account with the 
money transfer business, possibly from its webpage,  when he was online. He maintained  
that he had operated his account  appropriately for many years and that Barclays is liable for 
the payments   and this service should not be defending  it.
He has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62416172When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In short,  Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). But the bank  can hold Mr W liable for any disputed transactions,  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
 
In his response to our investigator, Mr W agreed  that the payments had been authenticated 
with his personal information  and the debit card details. His point is that the information  had 
been obtained by someone  else. And based on the available evidence, I agree that these 
payments were authenticated. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  
Barclays to hold him liable. I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr W consented to them. So, my primary concern is to come to a 
view about:
what is the most likely  explanation  of how these payments were made?
whether Mr W authorised the payments on the account, or allowed someone  else to 
make them?
Mr W says he didnt make the disputed payments. He says the third party was also a 
customer of the same  money  transfer  business.  He believes the third party logged in to his 
own account using  his own password and transferred money  to the other country using Mr 
Ws debit card details.  He believes the third party  got his card details by hacking  into Mr Ws 
account with the money transfer business, 
It doesnt make sense, in my opinion, for a fraudster to hack into Mr Ws account and then 
make payments from his own account  using someone elses  card details.  The risk of being 
caught and linked to the stolen card details is high.  But, anyway, this version of events isnt 
supported by the technical evidence.
The money transfer business  confirmed  that the disputed payments were made to the third 
party from Mr Ws own account, not from a third-party account.  The IP address, which was 
used for the login at the money transfer business,  was based in the country where Mr W is 
living. And Barclays has provided us with the online banking audit for Mr W. It shows that he 
uses the same IP address  when  he logs in to his online banking.
Unfortunately, I cant say whether the same  device was used each time. This information 
isnt available.
So, while Mr W might  believe  that a third party logged in from the UK, Im satisfied from the 
evidence that the payment requests were made from the country  where Mr W lives.  
I dont doubt that its possible for the account to be hacked in some way. But Barclays said 
the person making the payments would  have needed to enter Mr Ws card number,  expiry  
date and the three-digit CVV number. I dont see how the third party could  find those details. 
The money transfer business  said that his card details would not have been stored on its 
website and there is no option  to save them. Mr W has explained how he kept his card 
Ref: DRN62416173secure in a drawer. And he says he is sure no one had access to his card or his account 
information. 
The money transfer business  also said it would  have sent Mr W a confirmation  email after 
each payment and so he would have known about  those  payments when they were  made.  
However, Mr W didnt  raise a complaint until 28 March 2018. It said there was no evidence  
that his account  had been hacked. There was no password reset, which  is an indication that 
someone else has access to the account.
And I agree with our investigator  that someone  in possession of his card details would have 
been likely  to transfer as much  money as quickly as possible. I know Mr W says there  was a 
limit of £2,000 on each  payment. But there was a sizeable interval between the first payment 
of that amount on 5 February 2018 and the next on 22 February 2018. The further payments 
came after a transfer of £8,000 into his account. Theres no likely way I can see how an 
unknown third party would have known how much money was in Mr Ws Barclays account at 
any given time. 
Mr W has given  a detailed explanation of why he doesnt check his account at Barclays each 
time he logs on to online  banking. I havent got any information to show  whether he did view 
each account  when he logged in or not. I understand from his evidence he would  have seen 
both accounts  with the available  balance when he logged in but not the entries.
I cant say exactly what happened here but Im thinking about what  is most  likely to have 
happened. And Im afraid I dont think the most likely explanation here is that the payments 
were made fraudulently.  I think its more likely than not that Mr W authorised the payments 
either by making  them himself or allowing someone else to do so. It follows  that Barclays  is 
entitled to hold him liable for them.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr W, but I hope  the reasons  for my decision are 
clear. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6241617