K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that an overpayment made to their mortgage  account by mistake  
was refunded by Santander UK Plc to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors  (TR) instead of to them.
background 
What happened  here isnt in dispute.  Mr and Mrs B were in the process of redeeming  their 
mortgage. On 3 April 2019 Mr and Mrs B paid £6,000 direct  to Santander by CHAPS transfer 
from their bank, Halifax. Mr and Mrs B were then told by TR that they should  have sent that 
money to TR instead.  Mr and Mrs B initiated  a return of the CHAPS transfer through Halifax.
After being told by Halifax that this would take at least ten working days, Mrs B contacted  
Santander on 5 April 2019. She was told that Santander could return the funds to Halifax, 
which would take four working days.  
But on 5 April 2019 Santander also received just over £231,600 from TR as redemption  
funds. This left the mortgage account  in credit by about £6,600. The monthly mortgage 
payment of £575  was taken and then immediately refunded back to Mr and Mrs B (as the 
mortgage account had been  redeemed by that point). This left the account in credit by just 
over £6,000, which was refunded back to TR, not to Mr and Mrs B.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs B werent  able to contact TR, as the solicitors were moving offices 
and so they werent able to be reimbursed by TR immediately.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Santander. Santander explained that, because  the redemption  
payment had put the account  into credit,  its system  had overridden the CHAPS refund due to 
Mr and Mrs B and had instead  refunded the £6,000  back to the solicitors. Santander offered 
Mr and Mrs B compensation  of £100. They refused this and brought the complaint to us.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He was satisfied with Santanders explanation with 
what had happened  but thought the compensation should be increased to £200. Santander 
agreed to this but Mrs B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, did not.
Mrs B says that she thinks by law a balance left on a mortgage account  has to be repaid to 
the account holder. If she is incorrect in this belief  she wants  the Financial Ombudsman  
Service to provide legal proof.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint centres around the way Santanders automated systems processed the credit 
balance on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  account. The account history shows  the £6,000 
payment from Mr and Mrs B coming into the account  on 3 April 2019, when there  was still a 
debit balance on the account of almost £225,000.
The payment of £231,600  from TR arrived on 5 April 2019,  putting the account into credit by 
about £6,600, as the CHAPS refund hadnt  yet gone  through.  The monthly repayment was 
deducted from this balance on 11 April 2019, but was refunded back to the account  from 
Ref: DRN66189522which the monthly mortgage payment  was usually made Mr and Mrs Bs Halifax account. 
This then left the redeemed mortgage account about  £6,000 in credit.
When too much money is paid on redemption, Santanders system (in common with most 
mortgage lenders,  in my experience) is set up to refund the party which  made the 
overpayment. The payment which had caused the account to be in credit  by over £6,000 
was the £231,600 received from TR and so Santanders system overrode  the CHAPS  refund 
to Mr and Mrs B and instead paid the overpayment back to TR.
Mrs B says that she thinks by law the refund has to be made to her, but she has cited no 
legislation or precedent  for this and I have not come across any law which  supports Mrs Bs 
contention. As I said above,  refunding  the party which made an overpayment  is general 
banking practice, and that is what happened  here.
I think the £200 compensation offered by Santander  is fair and reasonable and proportionate 
to the trouble and upset which Mr and Mrs B experienced. I dont think  Santander should be 
required to pay anything  else.
I appreciate there was some inconvenience  caused  to Mr and Mrs B, as a result of TRs 
offices being closed while they moved. Thats not something for which  I can hold Santander 
responsible. If Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with TR, they will need to refer this to the Legal 
Ombudsman. 
my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Santander  UK Plc must pay 
Mr and Mrs B compensation  of £200. I make  no other order or award.
This decision concludes  our consideration of this complaint, which  means I will not be 
entering into further discussion of the merits of the case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6618952