K822xcomplaint
Mr Hs representative complained to Portafina  LLP that he had received  unsuitable  advice to 
transfer his pension benefits to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  and then invest in 
unregulated investments. And as a result of the advice, Mr H suffered a financial loss.
background 
In 2011 Portafina advised Mr H to transfer his pension  benefits to a SIPP.  The 
recommendation was for Mr H to withdraw his tax free cash for home improvements and 
then invest the majority  of what remained in the SIPP in several alternative investments.
I have previously issued  a decision setting out that I have jurisdiction to consider  this 
complaint because it has been  made within the applicable time limits. An investigator then 
considered the merits of the complaint. He thought it should be upheld  in part.
He said that the unregulated investments Mr H had been recommended  within  his SIPP  
were unsuitable.  They  presented far too high a risk for his circumstances. He suggested 
redress be paid on this basis.  
He also considered the advice to transfer the final salary occupational pension (OPS) to the 
SIPP before the investments were made. Whilst, on the face of it, he did not believe Mr H 
would obtain better  pension  benefits  by transferring (in fact his benefits were likely  to be 
worse) he thought that Mr H wished to proceed in any event so that he had the money for 
home improvements. So he did not uphold that part of the complaint.
Portafina accepted the investigators assessment. However Mr H did not. 
Mr Hs representative said that he did wish to access the tax free cash available by 
transferring but he does  not recall that Portafina  discussed alternative options  such  as 
obtaining a bank loan. The requirements  for money  for home  improvements  was not 
sufficient on its own to justify the transfer of the OPS.  Mr H said that he was unaware  of the 
guarantees attaching to the OPS and if Portafina had made him aware of this he would not 
have proceeded  with the transfer.  
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He said that Mr H had said to him 
that the extension to his home  had been  paid for by an endowment which was originally 
earmarked to repay his mortgage. So he no longer had a repayment vehicle. He considered 
using the pension as a replacement for the endowment. He also used  the tax free cash  for 
further renovations.  The investigator also said that Mr Hs primary  area of concern was the 
investments, not a reduced pension in retirement. He also said it had been recorded  that Mr 
H did not wish to take on any more debt.
So given the need to access  cash for mortgage  repayment and home improvements, he 
thought Mr H would have wanted  to transfer  his pension whether or not Portafina 
recommended that course of action. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69741922Portafina has accepted the investigators  view as to the suitability of the investments made 
within the SIPP. But for completeness, I agree with his findings. Investing the majority of Mr 
Hs pension in unregulated, high risk investments was clearly  unsuitable.  These types of 
investment would only usually be suitable for professional or sophisticated investors and 
even then, only a modest  proportion  of an individuals capital would normally  be considered 
appropriate to invest. Mr H was an electrician, was not a wealthy individual, and had no 
experience of this type of esoteric and unregulated investment. His circumstances suggest 
these investments were  entirely unsuitable for him. Therefore I uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
The remaining  issue  is that of the advice to transfer Mr Hs OPS to the SIPP to release tax 
free cash  and then make  the investments. 
I have noted that a fact find was completed   which is dated 27 October 2011. This recorded  
that Mr H required about £12,000 for, new windows and home  improvements.
On the fact find there is a question:
Have you considered generating this amount from other sources  (such  as remortgaging, 
unsecured loan, state grants etc)?
Why have you not:
Remortgaged
Applied for a loan
Moved
Etc?
In answer to this question  it is set out that, Doesnt  want any more debt.
Mr H is recorded as already having  a loan of £10,000 and a credit  card balance of £10,000.  
It is recorded that his monthly payment to that credit card is, Min + a little bit.
It is also set out that the critical yield is 18.1% and that this had been discussed, as has 
death benefits. In the notes section it is stated  that Mr H wants  to take tax free cash  for 
home improvements and that, Making home improvements now is his priority over 
retirement planning.  
There is a further section listing, Alternatives. It is recorded that, Client has no other 
assets & already has a lot of debts.
And another  section, Loss of guarantees.  It is recorded here that, The Client  is aware that 
he is giving  up a guaranteed pension of £1,822 & it is very likely  he will be worse  off in 
retirement for doing this.  
The Portafina adviser also issued a report as to the transfer, dated 28 October  2011.  This 
set out that Mr H had one existing OPS (the subject of this complaint) with a transfer value of 
about £26,000. It is discussed  that investment growth of at least 18.1% a year would be 
needed to match the benefits  being given up. It is said that this was, discussed in some 
Ref: DRN69741923depth. The debts recorded on the fact find are confirmed and the fact that Mr H would like 
the maximum amount  of cash  from his pension to fund home  improvements.
In the Recommendations section of the report:  
I would normally recommend that you leave your pension benefits where they are as this
will be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, during our telephone conversation
you advised me that you are aware  of the downfalls in taking your benefits now but due to
your current  circumstances  you would like to take your benefits immediately; in accordance
to your wishes, I recommend:
 That you transfer your existing pension fund to a Transact Self invested Personal
Pension (Sipp).
 That you take your full 25% Tax Free Cash entitlement from your arrangement.
 You leave the residual fund invested until such a time when you require an
income.
 
Although Portafina  does  not specifically state that Mr H should  not transfer, I believe the 
evidence is that it was made reasonably  clear  that this was not in his best interests in terms 
of pension income and the overall benefits of transferring. A critical yield of over 18% is 
highly unlikely to be achieved and I do not believe,  purely in terms of pension benefits,  that 
transferring in such circumstances would be advisable or appropriate. 
However, there are other reasons here why Mr H would likely wish to proceed with the 
transfer. As discussed,  the parties  have accepted that Mr H had a need for cash to fund 
various home improvements. Whilst lending might have been a possible alternative to 
transferring the pension,  it is noted  that Mr H already had significant debt and did not wish to 
take on any more  debt. The fact that it was recorded  that he was only making slightly over 
the minimum payment  to his credit card debt (which was significant) would tend to indicate 
that finances were  somewhat strained and that taking on further  debt would be difficult.  It is 
recorded that Mr H did not wish to take on this debt. This is without taking into account  that it 
would appear  Mr H no longer had a repayment vehicle for his mortgage.
It is also noted that the loss of guarantees was discussed, as was the high critical yield. 
Bearing all this is mind  I think there  were  persuasive reasons why Mr H opted for the 
transfer, even though  it presented poor value in terms of pension  benefits. I think  the need 
for cash took priority over those pension  benefits  and Mr H would have proceeded 
regardless of any advice  to the contrary by Portafina. 
fair compensation
In respect of the SIPP investments, my aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible 
into the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr H's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina  do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Portafina must:
Ref: DRN69741924Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase  its value  
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation (this would appear  unlikely as Mr H has already taken tax free 
cash).
Pay to Mr H £300 for the upset and inconvenience caused by the loss of value of his 
pension and the ramifications of investing  in unregulated investments.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN69741925investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If the investment is illiquid then it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. 
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Portafina 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr H provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances  and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN69741926my final decision
I uphold the complaint in respect  of the investments made within the SIPP. My decision is 
that Portafina LLP should pay the amount  calculated  as set out above. Portafina  LLP should  
provide details of its calculation  to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
I do not uphold  the complaint about  the transfer of Mr Hs OPS  benefits to the SIPP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6974192