K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments in November 2000.  
He recalls it was at the same time he made  a lump  sum payment onto the mortgage  account 
and changed the account into his sole name.  The banks records show  the lump sum 
payment was received in June 2000. It no longer has any paperwork from the transfer into 
his sole name. The policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover  and he paid 
a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed, he said his mortgage didnt 
end in 2001 as the adjudicator  said and sent in evidence that he redeemed  it in 2005, and 
was making monthly  payments until then. So the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr M says he felt he had to get the PPI to make the additional payment and change the 
name on the mortgage. I cant know what was said to Mr M, but based on what we know  
about the banks  sales process  at the time Mr M would have been given a booklet about  
the cover and then needed to sign a separate PPI application  form and direct  debit 
mandate if he wanted to go ahead. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms comments but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  impact what he recalls. I note also his mortgage account 
shows he had made the lump sum payment several  months before buying  the PPI.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely that it was made 
clear to Mr M that he had a choice about whether to take the PPI, and that he agreed to 
take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had a responsibility  to check  that the cover 
was right for hm. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable for him, based  on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  Mr M said he cant recall his sick pay entitlement  
and had no savings.  The PPI would have paid out in addition to any work benefits  and for 
up to 12 months for all accident, sickness and unemployment claims. Overall, I think the 
PPI would  have  been useful if Mr M was sick, had an accident  or lost his job.
Ref: DRN63950442Its possible Santander didnt give Mr M all the information he needed before he decided  
to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy  
didnt cover.  But Mr M doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. This 
means, overall, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  changed his decision.
Ive considered carefully all of Mr Ms comments.  And I can see, as he said,  he had a 
mortgage with Santander that ran until December 2005. But the way the banks  system  
shows his borrowings there are two separate mortgages, one running from December 1994 
to March 2001, and the other  from March  2001 to December 2005. However, this doesnt 
affect my analysis of his complaint, or the decision Ive reached.  The type of PPI Mr M took 
out - Payment Care  - was a standalone policy that could  cover any mortgage  Mr M had, it 
wasnt attached  to a specific  mortgage.  There has also been some  discussion about why the 
PPI ran until June 2006, but based  on the policy terms it was Mr Ms responsibility to cancel  
his policy  once he no longer had a mortgage  and didnt need it. 
It follows I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6395044