K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr T complain that the mortgage  product recommended  by an appointed 
representative of Openwork  Limited was unsuitable. Miss M has dealt with the complaint 
throughout.
background
Miss M and Mr T had a repayment mortgage.  They  put their property on the market  in April 
2017. However there was little interest. Their fixed rate product ended in June 2017  and 
Miss M says they were struggling  to meet the higher monthly mortgage payments. She says 
pressure from their financial  difficulties  caused  her and Mr T to separate  at the end of 2017.
Miss M and Mr T contacted Openwork in January 2018. Openwork and Miss M have 
different accounts  about what was said. 
Openwork says it was told Miss M and Mr T had taken their property off the market.  They  
wanted a better rate on their mortgage. Openwork recommended they take out a two year 
fixed rate product with their existing  lender.  
Miss M says Openwork knew she was separated from Mr T and living in rented 
accommodation. She says Mr T met Openwork without her and the aim was to see if 
monthly payments  could  be reduced  until they sold the property. She says she didnt receive 
documents for the new product and was worried  about being able to afford  the next monthly  
payment. In late February 2018 Miss M accepted the new product online.  
Miss M says they had an offer for the property the next day. Miss M says she asked the 
lender to cancel  the product, but it said this wasnt possible and there was no cooling off 
period. Miss M said the lender told her this product shouldnt have been offered to anyone  in 
the process of selling their property.
Miss M and Mr T sold the property and repaid the mortgage, they paid an ERC of about 
£3,700. Miss M says Openwork shouldnt have recommended a repayment mortgage  with 
an ERC when they were  trying to sell the property. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Openwork 
based its advice  on the information  it was given. Miss M and Mr T were made aware of the 
ERC. It was also made clear that while Miss M and Mr T had 14 days  to decide whether to 
take out the product,  once  theyd accepted it they couldnt cancel it. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said the investigator had put too much weight on Openworks 
documentation. She provided  a fuller account of what had happened, with statements from 
family members and screen shots showing rental payments and the property being for sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN62269762what happened?
Openworks adviser  says she spoke to Miss M in April 2017. The fixed  rate product theyd 
taken out when they bought the property was coming to an end. 
The adviser says Miss M told her theyd put the house on the market as they wanted  to 
move. There  was a discussion about the pros and cons of taking out a new product,  
including ERCs. It was decided it would be better for Miss M and Mr T to stay on the lenders 
standard variable  rate while they looked  for a buyer. 
So Openwork was aware of the house being  on the market. And Miss M was aware  that 
taking out a new product would mean an ERC  would be payable  if they sold the property. 
Miss M says she moved out of the property at the end of 2017  and lived with family  while  
waiting to move into rented accommodation.
Mr T and his mother met with Openwork on 15 January 2018. Openworks adviser says she 
was told Miss M and Mr T had taken the property  off the market  as they couldnt find a 
buyer, however  they were  having relationship  issues. Miss M says the property was never 
taken off the market.
Openworks adviser  says in early February  she was told Miss M and Mr T had patched  
things up and wanted to look for a better interest  rate. Miss M says this isnt correct.
On 20 February 2018 Miss M emailed Openworks adviser asking how things  were  
progressing and if she needed anything. She asked if the product would be in place before 
the March payment. 
Openwork says Mr T came into the office on 22 February 2018 and provided payslips. 
Openworks adviser  emailed Miss M and said shed started the product transfer and the 
lender would send her an email with the details and shed need to sign.
The lender  issued the conversion offer on 22 February 2018.
Miss M accepted the conversion offer on 26 February 2018,  using the lenders electronic  
acceptance process.
On 16 March 2018 a family member contacted Openworks adviser to see if the product  
could be cancelled as theyd had an offer for the property. 
was Openworks advice  suitable?
Openwork says it was told the property was no longer on the market  and Miss M and Mr Ts 
relationship was ongoing. On this basis, I think the advice it gave was suitable.  Openworks 
recommendation says the product was recommended because  its the best balance 
between the need for stability versus the need  to minimise the monthly  payments you let 
me know that you preferred to fix for a period of 2 years and then review your mortgage and 
circumstances. The recommendation goes on to say Given  your current  circumstances  I 
have recommended a mortgage which you may be able to take with you to a new home.
Ref: DRN62269763The monthly cost of Miss M and Mrs Ts mortgage  which  was clearly  an issue for them  
was reduced and they had certainty about the payments for two years. The advisers  
comment about the mortgage being portable  suggests shed  been  told they might still want  
to move within the next two years to a new property together.
However, Miss M says this wasnt what Openwork was told. She says the adviser knew the 
property was still on the market and that she was living apart from Mr T. 
I can assure Miss M that as well as considering documentary evidence,  Ive taken the testimony 
of all parties into account when reaching a decision about what most likely  happened.
Openworks adviser  was aware that the property  had been on the market. But it hadnt sold. 
Miss M and Mr T were  struggling with the monthly  payments  while the mortgage was on the 
lenders standard  variable  rate. Miss M says before  they took out the new product their 
monthly payments  were about  £750.  With the new product, contractual  monthly payments 
would be just less than £450.  
Miss M provided  a screen shot showing her rental  payments. The first payment is on 23 
February, so this wouldnt have been  shown on the bank statements provided to the 
mortgage adviser. And the expenditure in the fact find doesnt  include rent payments or other 
outgoings that suggested Miss M lived separately.
So, if Mr T and Miss M (or either of them) told the mortgage adviser theyd patched things up 
and decided to take the property off the market for the time being, I dont think  shed have 
reason to doubt them. 
Miss M says she didnt receive documents by post for the conversion offer.  The adviser had 
told her theyd arrive by email, and Miss M could have chased this if they didnt arrive.  The 
conversion offer was available  online and the electronic  acceptance process asks that she 
reads it carefully before proceeding. The offer set out the ERC.
Despite struggling  to meet the payments, Miss M and Mr T had stayed on the lenders 
standard variable  rate from June 2017. Most likely  this was because they didnt want  to pay 
an ERC if they sold the property. So I think they were aware  that a new product would 
include an ERC. 
Miss M says she accepted the offer because she was concerned  about  missing the 14 day 
acceptance deadline. But the offer was issued  on 22 February  and so they had until 8 March  
to accept it. Miss M accepted it on 26 February. Shed chased  the mortgage  adviser  on 20 
February. She asked  both the mortgage adviser and lender if the product would be in place 
before the March  payment. So I think  understandably  Miss M wanted the product in 
place to reduce  the monthly payments as soon as possible.
Whether or not Miss M and Mr T actually took their property off the market,  I think theyd 
decided the property was unlikely to sell in the near future.  Their priority was to reduce their 
contractual monthly payments,  which  Miss M has said they were struggling  with. I can 
understand if this seemed more urgent than what  appeared at the time to be a low risk of 
incurring an ERC if the property sold.  
On balance, I think the information  recorded  by the mortgage adviser likely reflects  what she 
was told about  Miss M and Mr Ts situation.  
Ref: DRN62269764It was unfortunate  that, after being on the lenders variable rate for more than six months,  
Miss M and Mr T received an offer for their property shortly after taking out the new product. 
As Miss M says,  they incurred an ERC without receiving much  benefit from the product. I 
can understand how frustrating this is. But I dont  think this means  Openwork acted wrongly. 
Based on what I think Openwork was told, its recommendation they take out a new product 
was suitable.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6226976