K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a 
FlexPlus packaged bank  account.
background
Our adjudicators have  looked at this complaint.  They  didnt think  Nationwide  had mis-sold 
the account. Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ls complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ls complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr L was given a clear choice in taking the packaged 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  having weighed up what  both Mr L and 
Nationwide have been able to provide me with.
From what  Ive seen, it looks like Mr L upgraded to the FlexPlus account from a free one that 
hed had for number  of months. As Mr L had previously had a free account with Nationwide,  
I think he wouldve known they were available and that he couldve had one of those if thats  
what he really wanted.  
Mr L has said that he was told he had to take out the account in order  to guarantee that he 
could get an overdraft. Nationwide says the FlexPlus account was sold online without the 
involvement of any of its staff and from what Nationwide has provided I think that it is likely 
that this upgrade was carried out online.  With this in mind, I think that it is more likely that 
Mr L recalls being made aware that the FlexPlus account came  with a £100  fee free 
overdraft, rather than it was the only way to get an overdraft, as I cant see that Nationwide 
staff were involved  in the sale.  So overall  I think Mr L took out the account  after being given 
a fair choice and he chose to take out the account  himself as he was attracted to the benefits  
that it came with.
As the account  was taken out online by Mr L then I do not think  that Nationwide  made a 
personal recommendation that the account would be right for Mr L. This means it was up to 
Mr L to decide  if the account was right for him bearing in mind  what it included.  But 
Nationwide did have  to provide him with clear  enough information to do this.
When Mr L upgraded to the FlexPlus account  it included benefits such  as mobile phone 
insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover. While I understand that Mr L says he did not 
need most of these  benefits the package as a whole  must have been attractive enough for 
Mr L to decide  to upgrade the account  himself when its likely he knew  he did not have to.
Ref: DRN60904392Im open  to the possibility that Mr L may not have been told everything  about all of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I cant see anything  specific that Mr L was not told 
that I think wouldve  altered his decision  to take out the account.  So I dont think  that clearer  
information on this wouldve  made  a difference  to his decision  to take out the account.
I note that Mr L is unhappy  that he never  successfully obtained an overdraft.  But even 
though one of the benefits  of the account was an £100 fee free overdraft facility, it was still 
subject to status, so it was not guaranteed. I should also add that if Mr L took out the 
account in order  to get this specific benefit,  when he became aware that he was not eligible 
for this benefit, it was up to Mr L as to whether to continue  with the account. 
Mr L has mentioned that he is unhappy that the monthly account  fee increased  in 2017. 
Nationwide has explained that it wrote to all of its customers two months  prior to this change  
and even though it does  not have an original copy of this notification I have been provided 
with a sample copy and I think  that it is more likely than not that Mr L was sent a copy. So I 
think that Nationwide did advise him of the change and therefore it did enough in relation to 
this. In any event even if Mr L did not get a copy of this letter,  which I am not persuaded is 
the case, I cant say that Mr L suffered a financial loss due to this. I say this because  Mr L 
seems to have kept the account  after he was aware  that the fee had increased so I cant  say 
that anything different  would have happened  had he received that letter.
I accept that Mr L may now,  with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that he hasnt benefitted  
from this account as much as hed hoped and expected to when he initially upgraded. 
And given  what Mr L may have read or heard about  packaged bank accounts in general, 
I can understand why he might think his account was mis-sold. But I think that Mr L chose to 
take the FlexPlus account while  having a decent  appreciation  of what  it included. So overall 
I dont think that Nationwide did anything significantly  wrong  here.
I want to reassure Mr L that Ive looked at all the information provided about his complaint.  
And Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so, I dont think that 
Nationwide has treated him unfairly. So Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6090439