K822xcomplaint
Mr M said that Santander UK Plc had been sending him emails meant for someone else.
background
Mr M told us that he had started to receive emails from Santander,  that were intended for 
someone else. Mr M told us that this was a data protection breach, and he didnt think  that 
Santander had addressed  this properly. He said hed rung three times trying to make sure 
that the emails  intended for someone else, which contained information on that persons 
account, werent sent to him, but they kept coming. He said that he then raised a formal  
complaint with Santander, and that seemed to mean that Santander did take some action, 
but he was still getting emails  after this.
Mr M said that he wanted Santander to remove his email details from another customers  
account. He also wanted Santander to explain why it hadnt acted on any of the first three 
occasions when  he contacted it about  this. And he wanted it to explain what measures were  
in place to deal with issues like this, and to prevent  them from recurring. He also said he 
thought Santander should pay him compensation for the mistakes  it had made, and 
particularly the length of time it had taken  to sort this out.
The emails  Mr M was getting contain part of the customers postcode, to show that they are 
from the bank. And that part of the postcode  isnt the same  as Mr Ms. Mr M received 
marketing emails intended for another person, as well as information on the progress of that 
other persons account application, and details of when payments to that account would be 
taken.
Santander wrote to Mr M and said that this email address had been given to it, as part of a 
different persons application for an account. It had removed the email  address from that 
persons records with the bank, so Mr M would stop receiving emails intended for someone 
else. But when Santander contacted  us, it said that it hadnt taken the right steps then to 
made sure that the email  address was removed  entirely from this other persons records. It 
also told us that it might  take up to eight weeks for Mr M to stop getting marketing 
information intended for someone else. 
Santander said it had paid Mr M £50 in compensation to say sorry for what  had happened. It 
thought that this was enough to make up for what had gone wrong. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that although there was a slight 
difference between  the email addresses recorded  for this other person and for Mr M, the two 
addresses did belong  to the same  account. Our adjudicator said that Santander had taken  
some steps  to remove the address  after Mr M complained, but he said that Santander hadnt 
taken all the necessary  steps then. He said hed seen evidence  that this had now been 
done, but it would still take a while for the emails to stop altogether.
Our adjudicator said that Santander shouldve  told Mr M that he might  still receive  emails  
after its letter  was sent. And it shouldve removed  the email fully, right away. But he was 
satisfied that Santander  had accepted its error and made an attempt to resolve this fairly and 
reasonably. So he didnt think it had to do any more.  
Mr M didnt  agree with that. He said again  that hed contacted Santander about three times 
before hed made a formal complaint, and it hadnt  done anything to sort this out on any of 
Ref: DRN67714252those occasions.  He said that the fact that there  was a data protection  issue  had been used 
to prevent any sort of resolution.  
Mr M also said that he thought that an eight week lead-in period was a very long time for a 
technical system rather than physical letters.  He also said that the data protection issue  
didnt seem to have been fully resolved until he complained to us. He said he still wanted to 
know what was being done to make  sure this didnt  happen again in future, and that any 
such problems would  be swiftly resolved. 
Mr M said that he thought  hed spent about five hours calling and emailing Santander  about  
this, so he didnt  think that £50 was enough  compensation  in this case. And he made a 
suggestion for a technical solution that Santander  could use to make sure that email 
addresses were verified in future. 
Because Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Before I started to consider this complaint, I said I would like to set out what I was 
considering here, and whats  not dealt with by our service.  
-When I looked at this complaint, I could consider how Santander responded when Mr M 
notified it that he was receiving emails intended for someone else.  But our service isnt 
the expert on data protection.  And we only look at how a complaint has affected the 
person who brings that complaint to us. So I could consider  how Mr M had been 
inconvenienced by these emails, and by having to contact Santander to get them  to stop. 
But I couldnt look at Santanders overall compliance with data protection  legislation,  and 
I couldnt tell Santander to do something  different  if this should happen again. 
-The body  with responsibility for data protection legislation is the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). If Mr M wanted to make  sure that Santander was 
complying with that legislation, or if he wanted  to check how it will do so in future, then I 
said he might like to raise this issue with the ICO.
-Then I turned to considering how this issue had affected Mr M.
-I hadnt seen  anything to suggest that the initial mistake over the email address was 
made by Santander.  So I was considering what Santander did when Mr M told it there 
was a mistake.
-Santander said that it didnt have full records of the calls that Mr M may have made, 
before his complaint was logged, but it accepted that Mr M had called about this prior to 
his complaint being registered. It didnt seem  to have taken any steps to sort this issue  
out before  Mr Ms complaint was registered. And it also accepted that even  once Mr Ms 
complaint was registered, it didnt take the right action to make sure that he was no 
longer receiving emails  intended for someone  else. It also accepted that it didnt warn 
Mr M how long the emails would continue  for. 
Ref: DRN67714253-I knew that this issue  had now been put right. But I noted that the information  wrongly  
sent to Mr M did go beyond solely marketing materials. I thought it wouldve been rather 
worrying for Mr M to continue to receive details of the progress of someone elses 
account application, even after hed told Santander  what  was going wrong. And I didnt 
think that Mr M shouldve been  put to this much  trouble, to stop getting  information 
intended for someone else.  
-I considered what Santander had done in this case, and I though that it should pay Mr M 
a further £50 in compensation,  to make up for the inconvenience  he faced in repeatedly  
contacting Santander  and then complaining  to us, before the problem was finally  
resolved.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides responded to agree with my provisional decision.
my findings
Even though  neither side has offered anything further, Ive still reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind. Ill now make  the award I originally  proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr M a further  £50 in compensation, in 
addition to the £50 it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6771425