K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) unfairly voided his let 
property insurance  policy  (treated it as if it had never existed). Hes also unhappy about the 
time it took to reach a decision.
background
Mr D took out his policy through a broker in November  2014. According to CTI the broker 
asked whether the property was let out to professional workers or people  on benefits.  Mr D 
said his tenants  were workers. 
The policy renewed  each  year up to and including  2017 on the basis that nothing  had 
changed in relation to the information Mr D had originally provided. 
In January 2018 Mr D made a claim for a water leak from an attic. CTI appointed a loss adjuster 
who inspected the property. Towards the end of February 2018 CTI was told that the property 
wasnt occupied by a professional tenant  but by a company using the property as a refuge  for 
abused  young  adults  and children.  Mr D provided  an email  from his tenant  confirming  that 
the property  was used  to provide  accommodation  for its staff and wasnt  used  as a refuge.
In September  2018  CTI told Mr D that hed misrepresented  the true nature  of his tenants  
use and occupancy  of the property.  It also said if it had known  the nature  of the tenancy,  it 
wouldnt  have  offered  him insurance.  So it voided  his policy.
Mr D brought  his complaint  to this service.  Our investigator  didnt  think  CTI had acted  
unfairly  in voiding  the policy.  But she thought  it should  have  reached  its decision  sooner.  
She recommended  that CTI should  pay Mr D £150  compensation  for the trouble  and upset  
caused  by its delay.  
As neither  party  agreed,  the matter  has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy,  theyll be asked various questions  
about themselves,  what they want to insure or to confirm that information previously 
provided and held by the insurer is correct. The insurer uses  the answers to these questions  
and information  provided to weigh  up the risk. 
In simple terms the insurer is trying to assess how likely it is that the consumer will make a 
claim. The insurer relies on the answers  and information that is given being  accurate. It can 
be a misrepresentation  if an answer given is inaccurate or misleadingly  incomplete. But the 
insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance  
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). The 
remedies available  to the insurer for a qualifying misrepresentation include voiding the 
policy. 
Under the terms of CIDRA, there are two main  factors I need  to take into account in deciding 
whether theres  been a qualifying misrepresentation. These are how clear  and specific the 
Ref: DRN62555702insurers questions were  and whether  the consumer took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
When Mr D first took out the policy, he was asked "What sort of Tenants do you rent the 
property to?" and "Are they professional workers  or benefit assisted?"
Mr D answered  "Workers".
During a later call on renewal Mr D was asked again whether the property was "let out to 
professional Tenants?" and he confirmed that it was. I think  that these questions  and 
particularly the question asked on renewal were  clear.
I need to decide whether Mr D answered these  questions correctly. The tenant was a 
company offering residential care and social work  activities. Mr D has forwarded an email 
from the company  confirming that the property was occupied by its staff and was not used  as 
a refuge. CTI says its loss adjuster met a carer at the property who told him the property was 
used to provide  accommodation for abused  young people. I dont think these statements are 
necessarily inconsistent. If the property was being used  to accommodate  young  people, a 
member of the tenants staff would be staying there. Although the property may not have 
been used as a refuge, that is for the purposes of emergency shelter, it could still have been 
used to provide  young people with settled accommodation. 
Based on the nature  of the tenant  and the information provided by the tenant and the loss 
adjuster, I think the property was probably occupied  by young people and a carer. The 
young people  would  be unlikely to have needed help from the company if they were  
professional workers. So I dont think its likely Mr D answered the question correctly.
I also need to consider  whether Mr D took reasonable care when answering the question.  
The policy he was buying was aimed  at buy to let landlords. So I think  most consumers 
would understand that an insurer would be interested  in the sort of person who would 
actually be occupying the property. If he felt unsure whether  his tenant could properly be 
classed as a professional  worker/tenant, he should  have  asked  the broker  during one of the 
telephone conversations  when these questions were asked rather  than taking  a chance. Im 
not persuaded that he did take reasonable care.
CTI has shown  that it wouldnt have provided the policy  if it had known that the property  
wasnt occupied by professional people.
So I think it was fair for CTI to void Mr Ds policy and not pay the claim,  since it wouldnt 
have issued the policy had it known about the occupants.
CTI were  on notice soon after the loss adjusters first visit to the property in January 2018  
that there  was a potential misrepresentation. I appreciate that it would want  to be certain of 
the facts before voiding the policy. But I think it shouldnt have taken until September  2018 to 
reach a decision  on this and let Mr D know. Bearing  mind the trouble and upset this delay 
caused Mr D, I think  its appropriate for CTI to pay Mr D £150 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co Ltd to pay Mr D 
£150 for the trouble and upset it caused  him by the delays on its part.
Ref: DRN62555703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6255570