K821x#15complaint
Mr T says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 short term high cost loans MYJAR provided to Mr T between
January 2017  and February 2018. Loan  1 was repayable in 12 monthly  instalments and the 
remaining loans in three monthly  instalments.  This is a summary  of Mr Ts lending  history 
from MYJAR.
Loan Taken out Repaid  Amount, £
1 15/01/2017 21/03/2017 925
2 11/04/2017 28/04/2017 200
3 12/06/2017 31/07/2017 100
4 06/11/2017 30/11/2017 200
5 09/12/2017 29/12/2017 100
6 27/01/2018 31/01/2018 125
7 16/02/2018 28/02/2018 150
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint in part and thought loans 4 to 7 should not have 
been given. MYJAR  disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN68236802refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  MYJAR needed to do more
when it approved loans 1 to 3. I think it carried out proportionate checks and I havent seen 
anything to suggest the loans werent  affordable. So I dont think  MYJAR was wrong to give 
loans 1 to 3 to Mr T.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mr T, with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR  ought to have realised Mr T was not managing  to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr T had been indebted  to MYJAR for six months and he had 
applied for further loans, but been declined, in months seven, eight  and nine. So 
MYJAR ought to have  realised  it was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ts indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ts first instalment  loan to be repaid over three months (loan 2) was for £200  and 
loan 4 was for £200. At this point MYJAR  ought to have  known that Mr T was not 
likely borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing  
need. 
From  loan 4 onwards  Mr T was provided with a new loan within days of settling his 
previous loan. 
Ref: DRN68236803Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan  7 was 
taken out 13 months after Mr Ts first. Mr T had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
I think that Mr T lost out because MYJAR  continued to provide  borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to loan 7 and MYJAR should  put things right.
I have considered MYJARs  response to our adjudicators view,  saying  that it lacks  
explanation; that we fail to reference  the detailed business file it provided; and that the 
breaks in lending should not be invalidated by declined  applications.  
The analysis I have  set out above  gives further detail about why I have concluded that from 
loan 4 onwards  no further lending should  have  been  given. And whilst I can see from 
MYJARs business file that it carried out credit  checks  and looked at the pounds and pence 
affordability of each loan,  I cant see that it considered the sustainability  of its ongoing 
lending for Mr T. With regards the breaks  in lending, I dont consider that there was any gap 
of significant enough length  for MYJAR to safely conclude Mr Ts finances had stabilised, 
particularly when during the longest gap he made multiple unsuccessful applications for 
further loans.  It follows  MYJARs points  do not change my conclusion.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  4 to 7
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date  
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about loans 4 to 7 is adverse. So all entries  about loan 4 to 7 should be removed 
from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give
Mr T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN68236804my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6823680