K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about losses to her gilt portfolio  which  Lift-Financial Ltd was managing on 
her behalf.  She also complains about its decision to cease being her financial advisor. 
background
Lift-Financial sent Mrs L a financial planning report in June 2017 following a meeting  with 
her. This report confirmed  that Mrs L was a cautious investor. And it said she only wanted 
to invest in UK government bonds which were guaranteed by the UK government.  Her key 
objective was recorded as ensuring  that her Tier One Investment portfolio is actively looked 
after by an FCA regulated institution  and ensuring  that this portfolio is fully compliant for 
immigration purposes. So Lift-Financial recommended that Mrs L invest £2,000,000 in 
Treasure Gilts with a 2022  expiry. It explained that prices fluctuate constantly and the prices 
could be higher or lower when the investments are placed. However it confirmed that the 
face value of £100 per issue is guaranteed  by the UK government and this would be 
realised on the redemption date. 
Lift-Financial also explained  that the capital  needed  to remain  fully invested during the 5 year 
term for immigration purposes. It therefore  recommended investing £2,002,000 in order  to 
ensure that platform charges would be met during the term. It said that the advisory  fee 
would be paid separately by her, while the interest  payments would be paid into a cash 
account in her name which  would be used to pay its ongoing fees and charges. 
Between June  2017 and March 2018 Mrs L had concerns about losses on her portfolio. 
These were  raised a number of times with their advisor at Lift-Financial.  On 28 March  2018 
Mrs Ls husband spoke  to their advisor at Lift-Financial  and there was a discussion, and 
disagreement, around why the portfolio had been  suffering  what  Mrs L considered to be 
significant losses (approximately £46,000). 
There was some correspondence which followed this incident,  during which  Lift-Financial 
explained to Mrs L that its advisor  had felt threatened by Mrs Ls husband and as a result,  it 
had decided to give her notice that it would be terminating their arrangement.  Mrs L said that 
it was in fact the advisor from Lift-Financial who had been abusive  and threatening, and that 
by terminating  their relationship they would  be jeopardising  their immigration status.  Lift-
Financial explained  that their portfolio  would  remain intact, but they would simply need  to 
find a new advisor to look after it for the remainder of the term. It confirmed that their 
immigration status wouldnt in fact be affected by this. 
Mrs L complained. Lift-Financial looked into the complaint but didnt consider it had done 
anything wrong. It said that the suitability letter which was sent to Mrs L confirmed  that there 
might be a short term fluctuation in the value of the gilt portfolio, but that each gilt would be 
worth at least £100 on maturity. 
And it said that as Mrs L needed to hold the gilts until maturity in order to comply with 
relevant visa requirements,  the short-term fluctuations  had no impact on her. 
It added that she received  interest  payments at six monthly intervals  which represented the 
return on the invested capital. And it concluded  that while it couldnt resolve the dispute  
around who initially shouted at who during the relevant phone call, it was clear that the 
relationship between Mrs L and Lift-Financial had broken down irretrievably. As a result, it 
was right for it to ask her to find a different firm to manager her portfolio. 
Ref: DRN68147752One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He made some further enquiries of Lift-
Financial, who confirmed that:
The initial advice fee was paid separately as agreed. 
Ongoing fees had been  deducted from the cash account which  had been receiving 
the interest payments from the portfolio,  as agreed. 
The terms allowed it to terminate the arrangement with Mrs L by giving three months  
notice. It confirmed that it had stopped all ongoing fee deductions.  
The adjudicator considered the evidence and didnt  think Mrs Ls complaint should  be 
upheld. In short, he thought the report was clear that there might be short  term fluctuations in 
the values of the gilts which Mrs L held. And he thought the report made  it clear  that the face 
value of the gilts would be guaranteed  on maturity, and that the visa requirement meant that 
she would  need  hold them to maturity anyway. He acknowledged that there was a 
disagreement about the telephone conversation on 28 March 2018. But he concluded that 
Lift-Financials terms allowed either  party to terminate  the agreement  with three months 
notice and thats what Lift-Financial had done. In any event, their portfolio was still in 
existence and therefore their immigration  status hadnt been  affected by that decision. 
Mrs L didnt agree with the adjudicator. In summary, she said:
Lift-Financial only terminated the agreement in order to cover  up mistakes and 
failures and fabricated a lie about her husbands behaviour on the phone.  
Prior to investing, Lift-Financial had told Mrs L that their investment was guaranteed 
to return 10% to 12% per year. This hadnt happened. 
In all the calls she had with Lift-Financial after June 2017, the advisor  at Lift-Financial 
had purposefully avoided talking about the losses to the portfolio. 
Mrs L was worried  about what had happened to their investment and that it could 
suffer serious unpredictable losses given Lift-Financials lack of integrity.  
She had never received returns on the investment. 
There was some further correspondence  between  Mrs L and the adjudicator, during which 
she repeated some  of the points she had previously  made, She also explained  she had 
made some errors in her earlier submissions. Namely that she had been promised returns of 
1% to 2% per year,  not 10%/12%. As agreement couldnt be reached,  the case was passed 
to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons. 
Id like to reassure Mrs L that Ive read and considered her detailed  submissions very 
carefully, even though  I have only summarised  them briefly in this decision. I hope she 
doesnt take it as a discourtesy, however, if I dont address all the points she has raised.  
The purpose of my decision is to set out my findings  and explain my reasons on the key 
issues in the complaint.  
In Mrs Ls case, the key issues  are the original  investment and whether it was suitable for 
her. And the termination of her contract  with Lift-Financial. 
Ref: DRN68147753Im satisfied the original  recommendation  was suitable for Mrs L. I say this because she 
required a specific type of investment to meet immigration rules and at the same time match  
her cautious  attitude  to risk. The evidence Ive seen  shows that Mrs L was interested in 
government bonds  precisely because of the very low risk of capital loss and because it 
would allow her to obtain the relevant visa. Its for this reason the suitability report  
recommends an investment in the gilt portfolio.
Ive read the report and I think  it explains  how this investment would work, and how the 
specific gilts would be chosen. Of relevance, I think it explains clearly  that fluctuations in the 
value of the portfolio might occur   but that on redemption the face value of the gilts would 
be realised. Essentially this means that Mrs L would be recovering her full initial  investment 
on maturity after 5 years. 
I appreciate Mrs L has focused  very much on the fluctuation of around £46,000. Thats a 
price fluctuation of around 2.3%  - I dont consider that particularly relevant given the nature 
of the investment. Mrs L isnt looking to sell. Shes looking to keep this investment until 
maturity. And on maturity, she will receive the face flue of the gilts she is holding which,  
combined, are worth  £2,000,000. Im afraid  theres  little more I can add to that. 
I appreciate she has said she was guaranteed a return on the investment  when  Lift-Financial  
advised her. Ive not seen  evidence  of any guarantee. She may well have been told that 
interest payments  would be made  every  six months  thats clear from the suitability letter as 
well. And its clear  where this money went  her cash account  and why - in order to pay the 
relevant fees without  selling any of the gilts in her portfolio.  Reducing  the gilt portfolio to 
cover relevant fees would  have had the effect  of invalidating her visa. It seems to me that 
this was all very sensible  and fairly straightforward. 
So Im satisfied the initial recommendation was suitable for Mrs L, and Ive seen  insufficient  
evidence to suggest that this investment wasnt managed in line with the above.  
In terms of the telephone call between  her advisor at Lift-Financial and her husband, Im not 
in a position to comment as Ive not listened  to the call, and I dont speak Mrs Ls language. 
What I can clearly see from the evidence however, is that the relationship between her and 
the advisor from Lift-Financial has broken down. I dont think  thats in dispute.  And given the 
fiduciary relationship  thats required in circumstances  where an advisor  is managing a 
portfolio of this size, I think  Lift-Financial took the correct  action  in giving her notice that it 
intended to terminate the agreement. I would add that this is provided  for in the agreement 
she signed with Lift-Financial, and it neednt  have given  her a specific reason for why it was 
taking that decision. This is why I dont consider the contents of the call between Mrs L and 
the advisor from Lift-Financial relevant to the key issue. 
As far as I can see, Lift-Financial took this decision in good faith, and three months gave Mrs 
L ample time to find another  advisor  to look after her portfolio. 
I should stress, on this point, that nothing has happened to that portfolio and Lift-Financial 
has confirmed that it still exists and it was never looking to encash it. 
For all these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  But I hope she finds some  
reassurance in the fact that I consider the initial advice suitable for her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Ref: DRN68147754Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6814775