K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Ms G complain  about problems with direct debit payments to their mortgage 
account with Nationwide  Building  Society. They ask that Nationwide removes adverse 
information it has recorded on their files with the credit reference agencies.
background
Mr R and Ms G re-mortgaged  with Nationwide in August 2017. Mr R changed the direct  debit 
payments to the mortgage account  from his sole account to a joint savings account in late 
August. Mr R and Ms Gs contractual monthly  payments didnt  arrive  in September  and 
October 2017. They paid the amount owed. Nationwide  amended  their credit  files and set up 
the direct  debit again. The payment failed  again in December 2017.  This time, Nationwide  
didnt remove the late payment  from their credit files.
Mr R and Ms G found out they couldnt  make  direct debit payments from a savings account. 
They say that once they knew this they set up payments from another account.  Mr R and Ms 
G say its unfair that Nationwide has left adverse information on their credit  files. They say 
its unfair to expect them to know more than Nationwides advisers, who allowed them to set 
up the direct  debit payment from a savings account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
borrowers are responsible for making  their mortgage payments. 
the joint savings  account was with a different provider. Nationwide  didnt know  it was a 
savings account.  It was for Mr R and Ms G to check that their account was able to make 
direct debit  payments.
In November 2017 Nationwide agreed to remove adverse information from Mr R and 
Ms Gs credit  file as it accepted they intended to make the payments.  But it made it clear 
that this was an exception that it wouldnt make again. Nationwide told Mr R and Ms G 
they needed to check the payment was made.  
Mr R and Ms G didnt  agree. In summary, they said that while  they accepted there  was some 
fault on their side they didnt accept that Nationwide wasnt  at fault.  They said they shouldnt  
be the only ones  to suffer from a miscommunication between  Nationwide and its customer. 
And it wasnt fair to hold them  to a higher standard of expertise than Nationwides  own staff. 
Mr R and Ms G said the adjudicator hadnt  taken into account that Nationwide  had given 
inconsistent information.  For instance, they say they were told in November that they need  
take no further action and then the follow up letter (which they didnt read)  gave different 
instructions. They say Nationwide admitted it had given them wrong advice  on the phone 
and that its staff werent trained to identify savings accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN68319592Mr R and Ms G say they had a further  phone call with Nationwides  complaints team  that 
hasnt been provided to us. Nationwide says it cant find any record  of this call. But from 
what Mr R has said, this call happened after the events that led to the late payment. So I 
think its unlikely it would  change my findings.
what happened?
Mr R and Ms G asked  Nationwide  to set up direct  debit payments to their mortgage account 
from a joint account  with a third party  bank.  Direct  debit payments couldnt be set up from 
the account chosen by Mr R and Ms G. As a result, they didnt make their contractual 
monthly payments  for September and October 2017.
Mr R called Nationwide in November when he received a text about  the missed  payments. 
Nationwide said there was no direct debit set up for the mortgage account. Mr R gave the 
account details  so that the direct debit  could be set up again.  Mr R and Ms G raised a 
complaint about  Nationwide not setting up the direct debit properly.
The direct debit failed  again and Mr R and Ms G didnt make their contractual  monthly 
payment for December  2017. 
Nationwide removed late payments for September and October from Mr R and Ms Gs credit  
files. It didnt remove the late payment for December  2017.
did Nationwide make an error with the payments? 
The problem here was that the account  chosen  by Mr R and Ms G didnt allow direct debit 
payments. The account  was with a third party bank. Nationwide didnt know  from the details 
provided to it that this was a savings account.  
Mr R and Ms G called Nationwide  in early November when it was clear there was a problem 
with the payments. Nationwide  told Mr R and Ms G that no direct debit was set up on the 
account. It tried to set up the direct debit  again, using the details provided by Mr R. At this 
point, Nationwide  still didnt know the problem was due to the type of account that Mr R and 
Ms G had chosen to make the payments from. I dont think  Nationwide  made an error  when 
it tried to set up the direct debit payment using the account details provided  by Mr R. 
Having listened  to the call in early  November, I think Mr R and Ms G assumed the problem 
with the payments in September and October  was due to an error by Nationwide:  they raised 
a complaint about this. But the problem with the payments  wasnt due to an error by 
Nationwide and it couldnt be corrected by Nationwide.
Is it fair to require Nationwide to amend  Mr R and Ms Gs credit files?
Nationwide has to record accurate and up to date information with the credit reference  
agencies. Payments werent made to Mr R and Ms Gs mortgage  account on time.  
Nationwide agreed  to remove late payments for September and October  2017  from Mr R 
and Ms Gs credit files. Mr R and Ms G say it should  also remove the late payment for 
December 2017.  They say that Nationwide  is partly at fault. And they didnt know  they 
couldnt make direct  debit  payments from their savings account. 
Ref: DRN68319593Mr R says they were given assurances by Nationwide when they called in early November 
that they didnt  need  to do anything more. Ive listened to the call and I dont agree they were 
given these assurances. Nationwide  didnt comment on the reason for the direct  debit not 
being set up. It agreed to set up the direct debit again, using the details Mr R provided, and 
confirmed this would start in December 2017. It took payment for the arrears. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr R and Ms G in early  November, responding to their complaint. It said 
it had removed the late payments from their credit files as it accepted they intended to make 
the payments.  It said this was an exception and wouldnt be offered again.  It said they 
should check their payments are received before the last day of the month. 
Mr R and Ms G say they have busy lives and receive a lot of information. But theyd recently 
had problems with their mortgage payments and adverse information recorded on their credit  
files. I think its reasonable for Nationwide to expect  them to read the letter it sent about  this. 
I also think its reasonable for Nationwide to suggest that Mr R and Ms G check that 
payments are made  as expected  especially when thered been problems. Mr R and Ms G 
say they didnt know they couldnt make direct  debit payments from their savings account.  
But if theyd  checked  theyd have known the payment hadnt arrived.  They could  have 
contacted the third party bank to ask if there was a problem with payments from the account.  
And they could have  made the payment by another means and avoided  the late payment 
being recorded on their credit  files. 
Its Mr R and Ms Gs responsibility to make  their contractual monthly payments. I dont think  
the late payment  information Nationwide recorded  on their credit file is inaccurate.  The 
problems with the payment werent caused by Nationwide. In the circumstances, I dont think  
I can reasonably require it to remove the late payment from Mr R and Ms Gs credit files. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6831959