K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about Allianz  Insurance Plcs  decision to decline her residential property 
owners insurance policy claim for damage caused to her rental flat by an escape of water. 
background
Mrs P is the landlord of a flat she lets out to tenants. She has a residential property owners 
insurance policy with Allianz. In August  2018,  whilst her property was unoccupied, she made 
a claim to Allianz following a water  leak from the flat above that had caused damage to her 
flat. The leak damaged the hall cupboard, bathroom and bedroom. Allianz declined the claim 
by relying on the policy endorsement for unoccupied properties. Mrs P accepted Allianzs  
decision but asked  it to send her a copy of the policy  terms and conditions so she could take 
sure this didnt happen  again.  
On 17 September  2018, some contractors attended  the property to carry out some  repairs  at 
which point a second leak was discovered which this time had damaged the lounge  and 
kitchen. Mrs P notified Allianz  that she wanted to make a claim. Allianz appointed a loss 
adjuster to inspect  the damage  and validate  the claim.
The loss adjuster carried out her inspection visit on 4 October 2018 and sent her report to 
Allianz about a week later. She reported  that the leak had likely occurred between  10 and 17 
September and that she was making  enquiries to make sure the unoccupancy endorsement 
had been met. 
Mrs P provided the loss adjuster  with an email listing the dates she, the letting agent or 
building contractor had visited  the property. The loss adjuster then asked Mrs P for some 
supporting documentation to evidence  the visits she said had taken place and suggested 
this could take the form of photographs or individual notes. When no further evidence was 
provided, the loss adjuster wrote to Mrs P to let her know  that her claim was being declined  
because she hadnt adhered to the unoccupancy endorsement on the policy. 
Mrs P disagreed with the loss adjusters findings  and complained to Allianz. She said it 
wasnt fair to ask her retrospectively to produce  photographs when the endorsement  itself 
placed no such requirement on her. She said the endorsement was ambiguous  and open to 
different interpretation.  She said her claim had been  rejected for not providing  evidence that 
the endorsement itself didnt actually  require. Mrs P said that wasnt  fair. 
Allianz looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  It said she 
had only provided  a list of the visits that had taken place  but hadnt  been  able to provide any 
evidence to support  they had. Allianz agreed  that the provision of photographic evidence  
wasnt a specific requirement  of the endorsement  and said its loss adjuster had only 
suggested she could  provide some  photographs as means of assisting her to validate her 
claim. As Mrs P hadnt provided  any evidence to prove the visits had taken place it 
maintained its view that the claim should  be declined. 
Unhappy with Allianzs findings, Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator  looked 
into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mrs P asked for her complaint to 
be referred for an ombudsmans decision.  
Ref: DRN64238732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment this 
will cause Mrs P, Im afraid that I dont think her complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
The unoccupancy endorsement contained  in the policy is as follows:
 
This policy excludes claims under Sections 1 and 2 if the Building  specified in the schedule 
is left Unoccupied  for 14 days  or more unless:
a)the Building is inspected at least once every 14 days by You or Your Representative and a 
detailed record retained for Our inspection on request showing dates  visited,  who attended 
and observations made.
It isnt in dispute that the property was unoccupied  when the second leak occurred. That 
being the case, in order  to be covered for damage caused by an escape of water,  Mrs P has 
to show Allianz shed complied with the above  clause.  That means keeping a detailed record 
that the building is inspected at least once every 14 days  showing dates visited,  who 
attended and observations made. 
When asked by the loss adjuster for the detailed record required by the endorsement to 
prove that the property had been regularly inspected, Mrs P provided the loss adjuster with a 
typed list of dates  alongside each of which it was stated who had attended the property. The 
parties included  Mrs P, the letting agent and her contractors. No observations were included.  
I can see that, upon receipt  of Mrs Ps list, the loss adjuster asked her for the inspection  
reports her letting agent wouldve made  but none were ever provided.  Not unreasonably, the 
loss adjuster thought that the letting agent  shouldve been able to provide such 
documentation.  
I cant say it was unreasonable,  given the requirements of the endorsement,  for Allianz  to 
have sought further information to confirm the inspection visits had actually taken place. I 
think that Allianz gave  Mrs P every opportunity to provide the information it needed and 
suggested to her the various forms it could take  such as notes, photos, or any other  
documentation where the visits were  recorded.  I cant see that anything  else beyond the 
original list of dates was provided  to Allianz by Mrs P. Ultimately the loss adjuster  and Allianz 
felt the list alone was insufficient evidence that the visits listed had actually taken place every 
14 days as required and the claim was declined.  
I have to decide whether Allianz  treated Mrs P fairly  and reasonably in all the circumstances 
and I have to say I think it did. The endorsement is unambiguous: a detailed  record is 
required that includes observations made. I dont think  the list Mrs P has provided met these 
requirements. 
Im unable to agree  with Mrs P that Allianz  was retrospectively trying to add conditions to the 
endorsement, such as to take photographs  as proof of visits made.  Im satisfied suggestions 
such as these were made by Allianz in an attempt  to assist Mrs P in validating her claim and 
to meet  the requirement that a detailed record be retained for inspection.
Ive thought about Mrs Ps comment that other insurers  she spoke to would only require her 
to keep a diary or sheet or notes in order to comply  with their unoccupancy  endorsements.  
Different insurers will have different requirements and obligations under their policy terms. I 
Ref: DRN64238733can only look here, within the context of Mrs Ps complaint, at what  Allianzs  endorsement is 
and whether it has unfairly declined her claim by relying on it. For the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think it has. 
Whilst Ive noted  the photographs Mrs P sent our investigator of the entries in her diary  they 
dont contain any comments or observations. And without  them  Im unable to agree they 
amount to a detailed  record,  such as is required by the endorsement. 
With regret for the disappointment  this decision will cause  Mrs P I dont think Allianz has 
unreasonably declined her claim for damage  caused  to her rental property by escape of 
water. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6423873