K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a loan.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint loan with Nationwide  in 1998. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy taken  in Mrs Rs sole name  which wouldve covered the repayments on the loan 
for up to 12 months at a time if Mrs R was made  redundant, or for up to the remaining term 
of the loan if she was too ill to work. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld  because Mrs R had a 
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the time of the sale.  He didnt think the restrictive  
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn to Mr and Mrs Rs attention. Had they been 
brought to their attention,  he didnt  think they wouldve  taken the policy.
Nationwide disagreed. It didnt think there was enough evidence  to conclude Mrs Rs PEMC 
was of a severe  enough nature to stop Mr and Mrs R from taking the policy.
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Nationwide were under a duty to provide Mr and Mrs R with information on PPI in a clear, 
fair and non-misleading way so they could make  an informed choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy.  To make an informed choice Mr and Mrs R needed to 
understand the costs and benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of 
the policy.
Ive read the PPI policy document relevant at the time of this sale and I see that PEMCs 
werent covered.  Mrs R has told us she was diagnosed with a PEMC some years before  the 
policy was taken out. 
Mrs R has provided a lot of detail about  her condition including  how it has affected her day to 
day living and how her treatment and medication has changed since she was first diagnosed 
with the condition. So Im satisfied Mrs R suffered from a PEMC which was excluded from 
cover under the policy.
And although at the time of sale of the policy  Mrs R says she hadnt had any time off work 
because of it, Im satisfied the condition was one that could  become  more severe or change 
over the term of the five year loan and one in which she would think  she might need time off 
work in the future because of it.
Ref: DRN63470002I also think the accident and sickness cover provided by the policy was important to Mrs R. I 
say this because  even though both Mr and Mrs R were jointly responsible  for the loan only 
Mrs R was covered by the policy. And although the policy  also provided unemployment 
cover - given the nature of Mrs Rs job and employer at the time - I think  it was unlikely she 
wouldve needed to claim for unemployment. 
So I think the PEMC exclusion wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs R because  Mrs R wouldnt  
have been able to make a successful claim for time off work related to her condition. And I 
dont think shed have  taken the policy if things  were made  clearer  and she understood this.
So I think Mr and Mrs R have lost out financially because  Nationwide didnt make the 
exclusions relating  to PEMCs  clear to them. Because of this I uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint. 
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Mr and Mrs R borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So Mr and Mrs R need  to get 
back the extra theyve  paid. 
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs R the difference between what they paid each  month on 
the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs R paid each month from when they 
paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Nationwide  
Building Society and direct it pay the compensation as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Rs to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6347000