K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Capital One (Europe) Plc acted irresponsibly when it gave her a credit 
card.
background
On 7 January  2013 Capital One accepted  Miss Ps application for a new credit  card.  It gave 
her a credit limit of £500. The account  defaulted in May 2013. 
Miss P doesnt think Capital One shouldve given  her this card. She says that if it had carried 
out credit  checks it would have seen her credit file showed defaults  including one for 
another Capital  One credit card. She says she had four other credits card when she applied 
for this one, all of which had balances at their credit limit. She also had payday loans and 
had made  late payments  on some accounts.  
Miss P complained to Capital One in August 2018,  but it didnt agree itd acted irresponsibly. 
It said that it carried out appropriate  checks when  she applied  for the credit card,  and felt the 
balance of her debts was low compared to what shed  told it her income was. It also 
explained itd taken into account good payment behaviour on another  credit card account  
she had with it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  
that Capital One had carried out appropriate  checks when it decided that Miss P met its 
lending requirements.  
Miss P doesnt agree. She says shed only very recently repaid a debt to Capital One. And 
defaults were still showing  on her credit report.  She feels  the fact she had payday  loans  at 
the time means  it should  have been clear she was struggling financially.  So the case has 
been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Miss P will be very disappointed, 
but overall Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator did here. Ill explain why.
Theres no set list of checks  a lender has to carry out before extending credit  to a consumer. 
But Capital One shouldve made  checks that were reasonable and proportionate to, amongst 
other things;  the amount of credit it was willing to offer, Miss Ps lending history, and the 
information it already  knew about her.
Capital One has shown us evidence of the checks it made here. I can see that it considered  
information from Miss Ps credit file, as well as the details she had given it about her income. 
It agrees there were defaults  on her credit file, but has explained the type of credit card 
Miss P applied for is one it offers to people who may have a lower credit score, including a 
history of defaults, to help them  improve  their credit rating. And it felt her outstanding level of 
debt was manageable given the £30,000 annual  income shed told it she had.
Ref: DRN67601112Capital One has confirmed this was the third credit  card theyd  issued Miss P. The first card 
defaulted in 2011 and was settled in November 2012. Miss P has pointed out this hadnt 
been paid off for long when she applied for this third credit card.  And I agree this account  
had only recently been  settled  but I can see it had been  settled  in full. Capital One has also 
shown us evidence  that when this application  was made the second  card was within its 
credit limit and Miss P was making regular payments to it by direct debit. I can see she had 
incurred a few late payment  and over limit charges in early 2012, but it had generally been 
managed satisfactorily.
I appreciate the comments Miss P has made about  payday loans.  I can see that shed taken 
out a number of them  between April and December 2012. But it doesnt appear  that 
Capital Ones checks revealed this history as all but one had been repaid in full and on time.  
And the outstanding one had been  taken out very recently, with no repayments missed.  So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to say they shouldnt have lent to her on this basis.  Looking 
at the copy of the credit report shes supplied theres also no evidence  Miss P was struggling 
to make payments  to other  creditors at the time of her application.
Overall, having considered the relatively  modest  credit limit of £500, Im satisfied that 
Capital One made sufficient checks before  approving  Miss Ps credit  card application here. 
Its clear she subsequently experienced difficulties, but I dont  think  it would be fair to say 
Capital One shouldve foreseen this. So whilst I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed,  Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further.  
I note Miss P has advised  that she is not, as Capital One believed, a homeowner.   But this 
doesnt change  my opinion that it acted reasonably here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6760111