K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt credit her account with all the cash she gave 
them. 
background
On 15 December 2018 Ms M attended  an HSBC branch  with her partner to deposit  some 
cash into her account. She says she had £2,500 which was separated  into three  bundles,  
two of £1,000  and one of £500.
She says that a staff member took the money from her and placed  it into a machine to 
accept the deposit. She was then provided with a receipt, but the receipt showed only 
£1,500 had been deposited. Ms M raised this at the time, but the staff member  said hed put 
all the cash into the machine.  
Ms M is adamant that she had £2,500  and complained. HSBC  looked into the complaint but 
didnt agree theyd  done  anything wrong. They  said the machine had been checked  and 
there were no errors recorded or additional cash found. They  also watched the CCTV from 
the branch. They said this showed  all the cash their staff member handled, had been placed 
into the machine.  Ms M referred  her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt think it should  be upheld. She sympathised with Ms Ms 
position, but didnt feel there was enough  evidence  for her to ask HSBC to credit her with 
£1,000. Ms M doesnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for essentially the same  reasons. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Ms M, so let me explain why. 
I cant be entirely certain what happened on the day in question  when Ms M went  into the 
HSBC branch. So in cases like this I have to come to a decision based on what  I think is 
most likely to have happened. 
HSBC have told our service that, due to the passage  of time, the CCTV is no longer 
available. Its unhelpful this evidence that would have  been useful in determining this 
complaint wasnt retained by HSBC. But Im not persuaded  that the fact that it wasnt is 
enough, on its own, for me to fairly uphold this complaint. 
There is a record of internal communication between the HSBC  branch and their complaints 
department dated 25 February 2019.  This says that the CCTV has been checked and that it 
showed that all the money  handed  over was placed  into the machine. I find this to be 
persuasive evidence.  I think its highly unlikely that the branch  would have reported  that this 
is what the CCTV showed if that wasnt  the case. Ive also seen evidence to that shows  the 
machine didnt record any errors and balanced with no additional funds.  
Ive considered Ms Ms account of what happened alongside all the available evidence.  And 
having done so, Im more persuaded by HSBCs evidence. There isnt any evidence  to 
support that the machine  didnt function correctly.  And as the printed receipt recorded that 
Ref: DRN67356962£1,500 had been deposited, I think its more likely than not that this was all the cash  that was 
handled by HSBCs staff member.
Id like to be clear that I dont question  Ms Ms integrity. But for me to be able to fairly direct  
that HSBC ought  to credit her account  with an additional £1,000, Id need  to be persuaded 
that they were  responsible for an act or omission  that meant that didnt  happen in the first 
place. And there is simply insufficient  evidence to persuade me that thats the case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6735696