K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Equifax Limited (Equifax)  stored false information about him on his 
credit file and that this led to him being refused credit. 
background
Mr R applied for a mobile phone contract  on 28 November 2018  but his application was 
declined. On the same day he contacted Equifax to tell them the mobile  provider refused him 
credit because Equifax  didnt have his correct address  on file. Equifax updated his address 
the following  day.
On 30 November 2018, Mr R got back in touch  with Equifax to say the mobile phone 
provider had still refused to give him credit. He queried a county court judgment (CCJ) which  
was showing on his credit  file. Mr R sent Equifax court documentation which confirmed the 
CCJ had been  set aside on 21 November 2018.  Equifax agreed to remove  the CCJ on the 
same day.
Equifax explained it couldnt provide a specific reason as to why Mr Rs application was 
unsuccessful. It said credit lenders make their own decisions and dont share  the reasons 
with Equifax. It added  that the information  it stores is supplied  to it by a number of reliable 
sources, including Mr Rs local authority and credit lenders. 
Mr R remained  unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator looked 
at the complaint and felt Equifax had acted fairly. She didnt think Equifax was responsible 
for the incorrect address appearing on his credit  file. She said the information had been 
supplied by the relevant local authority  not Equifax.  She explained that the decision to 
refuse or provide credit is made by the lender itself, and that Equifax cannot  tell a lender 
whether credit should be given or not.
She said there wasnt evidence to explain  why the mobile provider had refused Mr R credit.  
But, she thought  the CCJ was a likely  factor. She acknowledged that although  the CCJ had 
been set aside, this didnt  happen until 21 November  2018.  And as Equifax wouldnt have 
been told about this until approximately two weeks later  she thought it was more  likely than 
not that the mobile phone  provider had refused credit  because of the CCJ. But in any event, 
she was satisfied that as Equifax only stores information thats provided to it, she couldnt 
say it was responsible  for Mr R being  refused credit. 
Mr R disagreed. He said he was never given the option of selecting his address on Equifaxs 
website, and he said he couldnt input it manually either. He thought the CCJ was irrelevant 
as he was told by the mobile phone provider that he was refused credit because a credit 
report couldnt be found using the address  hed provided. Mr R has said that after the 
address was updated, he was able to make  a successful application for credit with a different 
lender.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs further  points. She said that at the time of his application 
for credit, Mr Rs previous address was showing as his current  address on his credit  file. And 
so his credit  file wouldnt have been  found if hed supplied his current address to the lender. 
And as Equifax only stores  information  its provided  with, she couldnt say it was at fault for 
holding an outdated  address, as this was the most  up to date information itd been given. 
Ref: DRN69336342She considered what wouldve happened if it been  Equifaxs fault.  As there was no evidence 
to support Mr Rs argument  that the incorrect address  was the reason for his failed credit 
application, her opinion remain unchanged. 
Mr R disagreed and so the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator, and will explain why.
Credit reference agencies such as Equifax store and report  information about individuals  
which is gathered  from public sources  (such as local authorities and the courts), and 
provided to it by financial businesses. 
I dont know why Mr R was declined  credit.  And its not something Equifax would know 
either. As our investigator has explained,  credit reference agencies,  like Equifax, only store 
information. It doesnt set the criteria  for lending - thats a decision for each credit  lender. 
And just because he was subsequently approved credit with a different lender that doesnt 
mean Equifax was at fault. What Im concerned with is whether Equifax  incorrectly  stored 
information relating  to Mr R. 
Mr R says Equifax is responsible for his failed credit application because  it held his wrong 
address on file. But Equifax has said there  were  no records from Mr Rs council to say he 
was registered  at his current address. It added that hes only appeared on the rolling register 
at his current address  since January 2019. Because Equifax stores  information  its provided 
by local authorities,  I dont  think its acted unfairly  by holding Mr Rs previous address in the 
absence of being told otherwise. 
Im aware that Mr R sent Equifax court documentation  which  showed his CCJ had been set 
aside on 21 November 2018. And that on receipt  of this, Equifax  amended  Mr Rs credit 
report. I can see from a credit report dated January  2019, that the CCJ no longer appears. 
Mr R has said Equifax  were at fault for having  this on his record  at the time his application 
for credit was made.  But I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
Equifax has explained that it ordinarily takes  two weeks  for it to be made aware of changes  
to a CCJ by the Registry  Trust. And as the CCJ was only set aside a week  before he made  
his application  for credit,  Im satisfied it wouldve most likely appeared on his credit report 
until early December 2018  which is after his credit  application was made. So I dont  think 
Equifax acted unfairly by including the CCJ on his report at the time he applied  for credit. 
And Im satisfied it acted  promptly by removing it from Mr Rs file when it learnt it had been 
set aside. 
From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show  Equifax has done  
something wrong and so I wont be asking it to do anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN69336343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6933634