K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the advice Delmor Financial Consultants gave them  in 
relation to a mortgage in 2008.  They  say it was mis-sold as they were  advised to take out a 
series of interest-only mortgages, the final one to be repaid upon  death, but in 2018 they 
werent able to obtain a replacement mortgage.  Due to this, Mr and Mrs H had to find the 
money to repay the mortgage, including  surrendering some investments, which they have 
said has immediate and future consequences on their standard of living and may put any 
required end-of-life healthcare needs in jeopardy.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs H met with an independent  financial  adviser  (IFA) to discuss estate 
planning, both in the event that Mr H pre-deceased Mrs H and for their joint estate after both 
had died. One of the recommendations the IFA made was for Mr and Mrs H to release equity 
from their home and place  it in a discounted  gift trust, thereby reducing the value of their 
estate. Mr and Mrs H accepted that advice and the IFA put Mr and Mrs H in touch with 
Delmor for the arrangement of the mortgage.
In 2006 Delmor arranged  an interest-only mortgage  for Mr and Mrs H of £300,000 with 
lender A, over a term of 15 years. A two-year 4.62% fixed  interest  rate product was linked to 
the mortgage.  Their  home was worth £400,000 the time. 
Delmor highlighted that the term noted was not important, because after the two years of the 
fixed rate the mortgage arrangements would be reviewed. Delmor could then re-broke to 
Mr and Mrs Hs best advantage, whether that be a new rate with the existing lender or by a 
new lender being selected. It was detailed that the interest payment would be paid form the 
monthly income they were to receive  from the trust. It was detailed that:
I anticipate that this loan will be in place for the remainder of your lives,  as the plan is to 
create debt within  your estate, then place the monies raised  in trust for your nominated 
beneficiaries, out of reach from the revenue  and capital taxes office. The loan terms will be 
monitored on your behalf,  to ensure  that they meet with your estate  requirements.  This will 
be done in conjunction with your IFA. 
I believe that [M] has already discussed  the contingency plan to cope with variations  in 
lending rates.
In the summer  of 2008 Delmor started looking at options for Mr and Mrs Hs ongoing 
mortgage arrangements. In the autumn of that year Delmor recommended  they move their 
mortgage from lender  A to lender N. This mortgage  was also on an interest-only  basis over a 
term of 10 years. Delamor recommended they attach a lifetime tracker rate to the mortgage. 
This meant they would be paying  interest at a rate of 0.97% above Bank of England base 
rate, with minimum rate payable of 3.73%.  At the time Mr and Mrs Hs home  was worth 
£425,000.
The recommendation letter from Delmor to Mr and Mrs H in November 2008 said the tracker 
rate had been recommended  because  they wanted  a deal that tracked  Bank of England 
base rate for the life of your mortgage  as you feel interests may fall. You have also stated 
that you wanted your mortgage to run for a term of 10 years  on an interest  only basis.  It was 
detailed that the broker provided  Mr and Mrs H with a quote for the mortgage they took out 
and an equivalent  mortgage on a repayment  basis. Mr and Mrs H chose the interest-only 
Ref: DRN62407222option. It was also documented that Mr and Mrs H had been made aware of the fact that the 
monthly cost could rise quite significantly if the Bank of England  base rate increased. In 
addition, it was detailed  that Mr and Mrs H had an investment portfolio approaching 
£500,000 which they could use to repay  the mortgage in the future, if they decided to do so. 
However, Delmor said it hadnt  given them any advice  about their investments or whether 
they should use them as a repayment vehicle for the mortgage.
After the complaint was referred  to this service Delmor  provided  a report from its former 
partner. He said that in 2008 the review  of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage arrangements had been  
requested by their IFA. In relation to the options considered at that time, he said an equity 
release mortgage  had been discounted  because  of Mrs Hs age (55) and the amount they 
wanted to borrow  in comparison to the value of their home. It was also satisfied that had 
Mr and Mrs H sought suitable  advice in 2018, they could have obtained appropriate 
borrowing and wouldnt have had to repay  the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H told us that in 2013  they had come to the conclusion  the advice  theyd 
received from the IFA in 2006 was poor and they had lost confidence in the arrangements  
made. So they hadnt sought further advice from Delmor, but had in 2017  spoken to lender N 
about extending the term of the existing mortgage. They said lender N had said it wasnt  
willing to extend  the mortgage and so they paid it off. Mr and Mrs H said, in response  to the 
decision about our jurisdiction, that lender  N had also told them they would  not find a similar 
mortgage from any other provider in view of their ages (71 and 65).
Our investigator contacted lender N about  Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. It said its records  
indicated Mr H contacted  it in the autumn of 2017  to ask about a term extension to the 
existing mortgage.  It had told him the maximum term extension  it would have been able to 
give was five years and that would have depended  on circumstances. He was told what  
information lender  N would  need  to consider the matter further. Mr H was recorded as saying 
that he would discuss it with his IFA and potentially  call back  for the options  available. 
Lender N said that no discussions were had about  alternatives for options at term end.
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs H complained about the mortgage advice theyd received. Delmor 
said that it thought  the complaint fell outside  the jurisdiction of this service because it had 
been made too late. One of our investigators looked  into that matter, but didnt think  the 
complaint had been made too late. Delmor accepted the investigators explanation of our 
jurisdiction and provided its file. 
Following further investigations,  our investigator proposed to uphold the complaint. He 
concluded the advice given to Mr and Mrs H in 2008  failed to meet  their needs. This was 
because Mr and Mrs H had wanted  the interest payments to the mortgage  to be covered  by 
the income from the trust,  but they were  recommended a product that didnt guarantee that. 
In addition, the investigator  didnt think Delmor  had given Mr and Mrs Hs ages enough 
consideration.  This was because at the end of the ten-year term they would be of an age 
where obtaining another interest-only mortgage  would be difficult. He didnt think the 
possibility of a lifetime mortgage at that point  negated the unsuitable 2018 advice. In 
addition, he didnt consider, due to the nature of a lifetime mortgage, one would have been 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs requirements due to the roll-up  of interest.
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the investigators  conclusions. 
Delmor didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman. It said that one of the partners had been pressured in a telephone conversation  
Ref: DRN62407223into accepting the complaint fell within our jurisdiction. Having had the opportunity to 
consider the matter further, Delmor didnt agree that we had the jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. In summary it was satisfied Mr and Mrs H knew the term of the mortgage  was ten 
years and there was nothing to indicate  the lender N mortgage would be automatically 
renewed at term end. As such, it considered that as our decision to accept the complaint  on 
Mr and Mrs Hs ignorance  of the fact that the lender  N mortgage would not be automatically 
renewed at the end of the term,  is fundamentally flawed. 
As Delmor  had raised the issue of our jurisdiction to consider the complaint again, I issued a 
decision. This set out why the complaint  fell within our jurisdiction to consider and why I had 
come to that conclusion. 
Delmors representative repeated that it didnt  think the complaint  fell within  our jurisdiction to 
consider. It also said that Delmor had dissolved in 2009 and the partners didnt have any 
residual insurance  it asked why we were considering the complaint against Delmor in the 
circumstances. It went  on to question our investigators conclusions  about the complaint and 
the redress he had recommended.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February  2021,  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Delmors representative has mentioned that it is a partnership  that is no longer trading. This 
service considers complaints about regulated businesses, be they sole traders or 
partnerships, whether they are still trading or not. Whilst  we would pass complaints to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme if the financial business had been declared  in 
default, that is not the case with Delmor. The fact that the partners didnt maintain indemnity 
insurance cover doesnt affect whether we consider a complaint.
In 2006 Delmor was an appointed representative  of another firm of independent financial 
advisers. By the time the 2008 advice  was given, Delmor was regulated in its own right. As 
such, the two pieces  of advice were effectively  given by two different business, so I cant  
comment on the suitability  of the 2006 advice in this document. The same applies to the 
financial advice they received from their IFA in 2006.  However,  I will take account of 
information Mr and Mrs H have provided  about the 2006 financial and mortgage advice to be 
able to form a full picture of their needs  and circumstances
.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H were referred to Delmor for a mortgage  to be arranged.  Effectively, Delmor 
was being asked to give a limited  form of advice  the decision  to release equity had already 
been made along with the timescale involved.  Delmor was only asked to recommend the 
best mortgage arrangements to facilitate the equity release over Mr and Mrs Hs lifetime.  By  
2008, Delmor was only being asked to review  the existing arrangements and recommend 
what Mr and Mrs H should do going  forward. 
There appears to be agreement between the parties that Delmor recommended that a series  
of mortgages  would be taken over the remainder of Mr and Mrs Hs life. The concept  for 
multiple mortgages being arranged was to take advantage of the best deals available over 
time. 
Ref: DRN62407224Delmor reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  arrangements in 2008  and recommended a 
re-mortgage to lender  N. That mortgage  was over a ten-year period  and involved  them  
taking out a ten-year tracker product.  This was in the latter half of 2008,  when the industry 
was expecting interest rates to fall. Indeed, by the time Mr and Mrs H signed the application 
form for the new mortgage,  interest  rates had already started to fall and they continued to do 
so. Whilst the monthly payment was not guaranteed as it had been under the previous fixed  
rate, in the circumstances where  a tracker was expected to provide a better interest  rate and 
save the consumer  money, I cant find that the recommendation was wrong.  In addition, as it 
was a tracker rate, Mr and Mrs H would  have had the option to leave the deal without 
incurring charges if they later wanted  to fix the interest rate. Overall, I dont consider the 
recommendation of the mortgage  with lender  N was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances. 
It then comes to the situation in 2018 when Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was approaching the 
end of its term. I note that Delmor, both as a partnership and the limited company that 
replaced it, had ceased  trading and werent available  to provide further advice. However,  I 
dont think that prevented  Mr and Mrs H from seeking further independent advice  if they 
wanted it. 
As it was, Mr and Mrs H spoke to lender N, which said it was unable  to extend their existing 
mortgage or give them another mortgage of a traditional type. This doesnt surprise me as 
most lenders will have a maximum  age for customers at the end of a mortgage term. 
Mr and Mrs H have also said that lender N suggested Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be able to 
obtain a new traditional mortgage  from any other  lenders. It was probably  right.  However, 
that doesnt mean they would have  been  able to obtain a suitable  mortgage outside of the 
traditional fixed term mortgage market.
Our investigator mentioned lifetime mortgages  and felt, because of their nature where 
interest rolls up, such a mortgage wouldnt have been appropriate for Mr and Mrs Hs needs. 
I would agree, but that type of lifetime mortgage is not the only type available  the lifetime  
mortgage is diverse. It includes mortgages  where the debt doesnt increase, and the interest  
is paid by the mortgagor. Some allow a mortgagor to change the arrangement if, later on 
they decide they dont  want to pay interest.  Such  mortgages can be arranged with fixed or 
variable interest rates attached. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they paid their borrowing off because they didnt have a choice. 
However, I believe had they sought  further  independent advice, they would have  had other 
options they could have  chosen from and wouldnt have had to use savings and investments 
to redeem the mortgage with lender N. I also note that Mr and Mrs H have told us some 
years before their mortgage with lender N was due to end, they had lost faith in the 
investment and estate  planning advice they had been given. That may have affected their 
decision in 2018.
Overall, I dont  think Delmor provided Mr and Mrs H inappropriate advice or that it is 
responsible for any losses they suffered when they decided that they didnt want to continue 
to have a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H said that they were shocked  at the change between  my conclusions  and those 
of our investigator. This change, they said, gives cause  for concern about the criteria and 
standard of consistency applied to their complaint.  They asked that their complaint be 
reviewed with that concern in mind.
Ref: DRN62407225Delmor accepted the provisional decision and confirmed  it had no further comment to make.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Hs concerns that my conclusions differed from those of our 
investigator. When a complaint is passed  to an ombudsman for review, the evidence  is 
reviewed from the start without taking account of the investigators conclusions,  to ensure 
the review is a separate stage to our process. An ombudsman will sometimes come  to a 
different conclusion to an investigator because of their experience  and knowledge. While 
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs disappointment  that I didnt uphold their complaint, I can 
assure them my decision was based on the facts of the case and my knowledge  of 
mortgages.
As neither party had any comment  in response  to the provisional  decision about the merits of 
the complaint,  I see no reason to alter my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 April 2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6240722