K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 complains  Barclays  Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to him 
irresponsibly and allowed him to pay the minimum monthly  payment  for several  years  on his 
credit card account with them. He is assisted in bringing his complaint to this service by his 
son Mr H2. 
background
This complaint has been pursued  on Mr H1s behalf by his son Mr H2. So where  Ive referred  
to points being made by Mr H1 its generally been the case theyve been  made by Mr H2 on 
his fathers behalf.  Mr H1 complains about  the debt which has accrued on his credit card 
with Barclays. Mr H1 feels that Barclaycard has acted  irresponsibly in failing to notice his 
lack of financial understanding  as evidenced  by payment of the minimum monthly 
repayment. He thought  the bank shouldve contacted him and offered an alternative financial 
arrangement. Mr H1 says hes experiencing financial  difficulties  and he wants Barclaycard to 
write off the debt.
Barclaycard didnt think theyd acted irresponsibly and didnt uphold  the complaint, they said 
charges and interest have been applied  in line with the terms and conditions.  They  said Mr 
H1s account was being managed effectively and they only increased a credit  limit where this 
was the case  and there was no adverse information  on a credit  file. So they didnt agree to 
write off the debt.  But in response  to Mr H1s financial  difficulties Barclaycard offered  to 
place the account on hold for a period so no interest  and charges were  applied.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclaycard  had made  an error.  He reviewed the account going 
back six years and found that the required minimum monthly payments had been made on 
time and although  these  did consist mostly of interest that was standard when  the minimum 
payment was being made. The adjudicator found where the interest rate had altered  
Barclaycard had acted  fairly and in line with the terms and conditions in giving Mr H1 notice.  
He also thought if Mr H1 was struggling to manage  the account  he should have contacted 
the bank to make them aware. And he thought when Barclaycard were  made  aware of Mr 
H1s financial  difficulties it responded positively and sympathetically. And he didnt agree 
with the concerns about delay in setting up authority on the account  for Mr H2.
Mr H1 didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. He said the bank telling him 
paying minimum amount  will take longer to repay the debt doesnt constitute having due 
regard to his interests,  treating him fairly  or communicating  information  to him in a way thats 
clear, fair and not misleading. Mr H2 believed it was a banks  responsibility  to give financial 
advice, particularly to older customers,  clearly not understanding the concept of repaying a 
minimum monthly sum whilst accruing interest at over 20%. And he wanted  to ensure the 
ombudsman reviewing the case was aware  of the banks  obligations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this account has been open  since 1999 everyone agrees that, for reasons of 
jurisdiction, this service can only look at the last six years of its use. So Ive only looked  at 
account activity  from 2012  onwards. Ive reviewed  the statements and I can see that Mr H1 
has made the minimum payments each month or just over, all of which have been made on 
Ref: DRN67001442time. In addition, the accounts been used for some  new transactions. So the balance on the 
accounts increased through a combination of minimum  payments and purchases.
The main  issue here is Mr H1 says due to his misunderstanding of how the a credit  card 
account works hes only made the minimum payment whilst incurring monthly interest  
charges at a rate of interest much higher  than the Bank of Englands  base rate. And he 
thinks his operation of the account in that way shouldve triggered some response  from 
Barclaycard. I have some sympathy for Mr H1. But whilst I can see hes in a unfortunate 
position Im afraid I cant agree with him and my overall view is Barclaycard  havent done 
anything wrong  here. Ill explain why.
Whatever the age of a customer, its their responsibility to operate the account within the 
agreed terms and conditions and to monitor it. Is seems to me Mr H1 did that. Theres  also 
no evidence of him notifying Barclaycard  of any concerns about the way the account was 
running or his financial situation before this complaint was lodged. So I dont think  theres 
anything to alert Barclaycard to any difficulties here. 
Ive taken into account The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) published by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA),  including  the changes which  were  fully operational from 
1 September 2018 relating to communications with customers in persistent debt. Essentially 
those changes provided that where a customer has paid more  in interest, charges and fees 
in the past 18 months than theyve paid off their borrowing  they should be told this. Im 
satisfied Barclaycard met their obligations  here generally and those under these changes 
with the letter sent to Mr H1 on 30 August 2018 along with the emails  on 15 August and 27 
September 2018.
Mr H1 received monthly statements clearly  showing the rate of interest, balance and with a 
statement warning if he continues to make the minimum payment it will take longer and cost 
more to clear the balance.  Whilst Barclaycard  has a general responsibility  to monitor 
accounts, ordinarily we wouldnt  expect  a bank the bank to monitor  a customers  account to 
the extent where  they could suggest more beneficial ways of dealing with the debt. 
Ultimately thats a choice  for the customer. Particularly, as in this case, where  the account 
was operating within the terms and conditions and the minimum payments were  being met. 
And I certainly dont  agree Barclaycard had a responsibility to give Mr H1 financial advice as 
suggested by Mr H2.
The rate of interest applied is a commercial decision for the bank and not something with 
which this service can interfere. Ive looked  at the rate of interest thats been applied to this 
account over the timeframe Im considering and Im satisfied that theres nothing  
extraordinary about it, given its a credit card account. And when there were changes  to the 
rate Barclaycard gave Mr H1 the required notice.
Like the adjudicator  Im not persuaded that it took Barclaycard three weeks  to grant  Mr H2 
authority on his fathers account. The records from the bank dont  support  this - they show  
the first discussion was on 8 October  2018 and authority was granted the following day. 
So overall I dont  think Barclaycard have done anything wrong here. As soon as they were 
made aware  of Mr H1s financial difficulties I think they responded appropriately. Barclaycard  
isnt obliged to write  off debt when theyre notified  of financial difficulties - they have a range 
Ref: DRN67001443of options. By putting this account  on hold without interest for a set period I think theyve 
responded positively and sympathetically. 
I know Mr H2 feels strongly  about Mr H1s position so he may want  to pursue the matter on 
behalf of Mr H1 further through other routes. But my decision brings  to an end what we  in 
trying to resolve Mr H1s dispute with Barclaycard informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this 
disappoints both Mr H1 and Mr H2.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6700144