K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc gave  him incorrect  advice about making 
a CHAPS payment  from abroad. Hes also unhappy  that his payment was delayed  resulting 
in him having  to travel to the UK to make the transfer in branch.
background
Mr P was in the process of buying  a property in the UK. He paid a 10% deposit in April 2018  
and drew funds from other  savings  accounts into his NatWest account.
In June 2018 Mr Ps account was suspended because  of unusual activity. Mr P explained 
to the bank that the funds  coming in to his account  represented the balance of funds 
required to complete his property  purchase.
Mr P asked NatWest how he could send a CHAPS payment instruction to transfer the 
completion monies from France.  He was advised  that it wasnt  possible to send the money 
he intended to from abroad but was later advised  that he could give the CHAPS instruction 
by fax.
Mr P sent instructions by fax but noticed  the funds hadnt been transferred.  After several 
unsuccessful attempts  at giving instruction for the transfer Mr P grew concerned as the 
completion date was approaching. He decided to fly to the UK to make  the transfer in 
branch.
Mr P visited  his local branch early  in the morning  and made  the transfer. He checked his 
account in the afternoon and discovered the transfer  hadnt been made. He visited  another  
branch, who advised  him the earlier transfer had been rejected because  his signature didnt 
match the one the bank  held on record. Mr P provided a signature and the transfer was 
completed.
In its final response,  NatWest acknowledged that it had initially given incorrect  advice  about  
making transfers from abroad. It credited Mr Ps account with £50.
Mr P was unhappy with the banks response. He wants  his expenses of travelling to the UK 
reimbursed. He also wants compensation for the trouble  and upset caused.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the bank had declined the CHAPS 
instruction because the signature on the instruction  didnt match  the signature the bank held 
for Mr P. The investigator said that subsequent CHAPS instructions  had been  declined for 
the same  reason and a letter had been sent to Mr P advising him of this. The investigator felt 
that NatWest had acted  reasonably and said that although travelling to a branch in the UK 
was inconvenient for Mr P, this was the only way in which Mr P could  verify  his signature and 
make the transfer.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he understood the banks duty to protect customers from fraud, 
but he was unhappy about  the service  hed received and felt that he could have been kept 
better informed throughout the process.
Ref: DRN61769902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CHAPS instruction
NatWest has explained  that there were two options available to Mr P to make the transfer 
from abroad. The first was to make payment using online banking and the second was to 
give instructions for a CHAPS payment either  in branch or by fax. Online banking payments 
are subject to a limit of one payment per day up to a maximum of £20,000, so this wouldnt 
have been a viable option for Mr P. 
I can see that Mr P faxed a CHAPS  instruction to NatWest on 22 June 2018. NatWest has 
explained that on receipt of the instruction, it carried out checks  to make sure the request  
was genuine.  In the course of those  checks it was found that Mr Ps signature on the CHAPS  
instruction didnt match the signature  the bank held on record for him. Because of this, the 
bank declined the instruction.
Im unable to say that the bank acted  unreasonably  in declining the instruction. This was a 
high value payment  and I would expect the bank  to carry  out stringent checks. If a signature  
didnt match I would  expect the bank to decline  the instruction to protect the customer 
against possible fraud.
I can see that the bank  wrote to Mr P advising him that it hadnt been able to carry out his 
CHAPS instruction and asking him to validate his signature. Mr P has expressed his 
frustration that the letter  was sent to his UK address  however, this was the registered 
address for his account so I cant  say the bank made an error in writing to him here.
Contact with the bank
I understand that Mr P experienced difficulties contacting the bank from France.  Its not 
entirely clear  why this was the case but its been  suggested by the bank that Mr Ps 
telephone provided didnt  allow 0345 calls. I appreciate how frustrating  it must  have been for 
Mr P when he couldnt speak to the bank to find out what was happening and I also 
understand how worried he must have been as the completion date approached. However, 
absent any evidence  that the bank had provided  an incorrect telephone number, I cant hold 
NatWest responsible for these difficulties. Moreover,  I think it would have been possible for 
Mr P to contact the bank  on a different number, for instance, the international number. 
Alternatively Mr P could have used the webchat function on the banks website.
Ultimately, and even if Mr P had managed to speak  with the bank, I think  he would have  had 
to make the journey to the UK to verify  his signature in any event. I dont think  it would have 
been possible for Mr P to verify his signature  from outside of the UK.
Travel to UK and visits to the branch
As Ive said above,  I dont  think (given  the issue with Mr Ps signature) that Mr P couldve 
avoided travelling to the UK. It wasnt NatWests fault that Mr P was unable to make contact 
with them  effectively from outside of the UK, nor was it NatWests fault that the signature on 
the CHAPS instruction didnt match the signature  it held on record.  Because I think Mr P 
would have needed to travel to the UK in any event, I dont think its fair to require the bank 
Ref: DRN61769903to reimburse his travel expenses. Thats not to say I think Mr Ps decision to travel was 
unreasonable  he did what I would have  expected  most consumers to do in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr P was inconvenienced by having to wait for the transfer to be completed 
whilst he was in the UK. Although the terms relating to CHAPS payments  say that 
instructions received before  3.15pm  will be processed the same day, the terms also say that 
checks will be carried out before funds are debited. It was in the course of these  checks that 
the issue with the signature not matching arose again.
Although Mr P had provided his local branch with a copy of his driving licence relatively 
recently for ID purposes, the bank has explained  that this ID doesnt  give an ongoing  
authority to verify subsequent  transactions.  So whilst I appreciate that Mr P feels  that he had 
already provided  the bank with an updated  signature, this wasnt sufficient as a general 
authority.
I am surprised that when  Mr P visited his local branch to make  the transfer, the problem with 
his signature wasnt  identified. Its possible however that the branch simply processed the 
CHAPs instruction and sent it on to a centralised  department for checking,  which  was the 
first time the signature issue was identified.
I appreciate what a time consuming and stressful experience this has been for Mr P. 
Although Ive not been persuaded that the bank did anything wrong, this doesnt  mean  that I 
think Mr P acted  unreasonably. As Ive already said, Mr P acted as I would have expected 
most consumers to act. Its unfortunate  that Mr Ps signature  on the CHAPS instruction was 
different to the signature held on record by the bank and its unfortunate that Mr P wasnt  
able to remedy this from abroad.  I have sympathy with Mr P that he had to travel to the UK 
to resolve this but I dont think there  was any other  alternative in the circumstances.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6176990