K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Ms S says Newcastle Building Society  (Newcastle) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S took the PPI with her mortgage. The mortgage  application  form at the time gave the 
option to say yes or no to the PPI  so I think its likely Newcastle made  it clear  that Ms S 
didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. And Ms S says she knew  she had it.
Newcastle says it wouldnt  have  given advice at the time or recommended  the PPI to Ms S 
as being right for her own particular circumstances. So Newcastle thinks it was left to Ms S 
to decide whether the PPI was right for her own circumstances.  And Ms S hasnt told us that 
Newcastle did give her advice or recommend her the PPI as right for her circumstances. So I 
dont think Newcastle did give Ms S advice  on taking the PPI. And if Newcastle didnt give 
Ms S advice on taking  the PPI, Newcastle didnt  have to check  the PPI was right for her. But 
Newcastle did have  to make sure Ms S got the information she needed  to decide for herself 
whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Newcastle gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt  as full or as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But from what shes told us, Ms S wasnt  affected by any of the limits on or 
exclusions to the cover  so she couldve  claimed  the benefit if the circumstances arose. In 
view of this, I dont  think more information about the terms or conditions wouldve  put Ms S 
off taking the cover.
I dont know whether the cost of the PPI was explained to Ms S at the time she signed  her 
mortgage application form. But the cost was set out in separately in her mortgage  offer.  And 
it looks like the cost of the cover  was affordable. So, with all this in mind, I dont think better  
information about the cost wouldve changed  the decision Ms S made to take the cover.  And 
given that I think  Ms S chose to take the cover   and it was likely made clear she could say 
no to it instead   it looks to me like Ms S wanted cover like this at the time. 
Taking into account everything  Ive said above, overall I dont  think better information about 
the PPI wouldve put Ms S off taking the cover.
I say this taking into account  also that, from what she has told us, Ms Ss work sick pay 
would reduce after six months. The PPI benefit  lasted for longer  - up to a year.  It helped  
protect a mortgage  a substantial liability secured on Ms Ss home.  And the benefit would 
be paid in addition  to Ms Ss work  redundancy or sickness benefits.  Ms S has said she had 
savings to keep  up payments  for a short time. But the PPI benefit made it less likely Ms S 
would have to use her savings to pay her mortgage  at what  could be a difficult time if she 
were too sick to work or had lost her job.
Ref: DRN68433912Ive thought about all Ms Ss points, including  what shes said about  how Newcastle 
shouldve advised  her she didnt need  the cover. But Newcastle  didnt have to give Ms S 
advice about whether  the PPI was right for her circumstances.  And Ive explained above  how 
the benefit mightve helped Ms S and why I dont  think better  information  about it wouldve 
stopped her taking  it out. Ms S has also said she couldve  sold her house instead. But the 
PPI made  it less likely  shed have to do this. Also the death in service  cover shes  told us 
about wouldnt have  helped pay her mortgage  like the PPI wouldve if she lost her job or was 
too sick to work. So, in the light of all Ive said above and for the reasons Ive given, these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Newcastle needs to give Ms S some of the commission  she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Ms Ss mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Newcastle doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Ms S paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
I appreciate my conclusion will disappoint  Ms S. Im grateful to her for her points and her 
patience throughout this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6843391