K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) handled a
claim made on his legal expenses insurance (LEI)  policy.
background
Mr Fs home  forms part of a larger development of residential properties and common  areas 
 managed by an association.  Mr F sought to make  a claim on his LEI policy (the policy)  to 
cover the cost of legal representation regarding disputes, including the management  of the 
common areas.
Mr F was represented by one of RSAs panel law firms based in Scotland  (the law firm) to 
undertake an assessment  on the prospects of Mr F succeeding in his claim. The law firm 
says it had delegated authority on behalf  of RSA to deal with policy  decisions up to, and 
including, the issuing of the final response letter. That includes interpreting the policy and 
advising Mr F on the scope of policy coverage, on RSAs behalf. 
In July 2018, the law firm advised that prospects of him succeeding in his claim were below 
51% and so wouldnt be funded under his LEI policy. Mr F didnt agree, particularly as he 
says the law firm (via a legal helpline it manned on behalf of RSA from a different site in 
England) had advised him otherwise, when hed first contacted it for legal assistance.
Mr F subsequently  met with the solicitor  who provided the initial  assessment on prospects 
and his superior,  who was a senior associate.  Having done  so, the solicitor wrote to Mr F 
setting out why he stood by his assessment. 
Mr F is very unhappy about  the way in which the law firm handled his claim and the advice 
he received. Hes also unhappy that the solicitor - and senior  associate  - who considered  his 
claim and advised  that the prospects of him succeeding in his claim were less than 51%, 
werent sufficiently qualified to provide advice on the issues relevant to his claim, particularly 
as it involved Scottish  law.   
Our investigator didnt  think RSA had done  anything  wrong so didnt uphold Mr Fs
complaint. Mr F disagreed and has requested an ombudsman review his complaint. So its 
now been passed to me to look at everything afresh  and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
I know Mr F will be very disappointed  by my decision. And before I explain the reasons for 
not upholding his complaint, I want to acknowledge that hes raised many points in response  
to our investigators opinion. I wont address all of them in my decision but I have carefully 
reviewed them. Instead, Ill focus  on the points I think are central to the outcome of the 
complaint.
RSA is entitled  to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Mr F succeeding in his claim
and, if he had more  chance of succeeding in that claim than not, representing him in that
action (subject to the remaining policy  terms). Its common for LEI policies to include a 
condition like this and generally we dont think that sort of clause is unfair. Thats  because  it 
Ref: DRN68981842wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt likely to succeed, or 
where a privately  paying client wouldnt be advised  to start, or continue  with, legal action.
Mr F is very unhappy with the way his case was conducted by the law firm, its failure to 
adhere to its own service standards, the advice he received, and the information it relied on / 
omitted to consider  when assessing  whether his claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of 
success. Mr F also says the law firm failed to reconsider the advice even after hed provided 
it with further information  and referred it to legislation relevant to the issues  being  advised 
on. But our Service  cant consider  complaints  about the general legal advice or service given 
by a firm of solicitors; theyre not under RSAs control. They  are independent  professionals 
with their own regulator and complaints procedures.
Our Service can only consider whether RSA did anything wrong in the way it handled the
insurance claim. That includes whether the advice  given  to Mr F by the law firm was
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that RSA shouldve reasonably
questioned it. I dont think thats  the case here. Im satisfied that when RSA withdrew cover 
under the policy,  it reasonably relied  on the advice of the law firm when doing so. After  all, 
the law firm are the legal professionals and had day to day conduct  of his case.
When making this finding, Ive considered  what Mr F says about receiving different, more  
favourable, advice from the legal helpline when first seeking  legal  assistance.  However,  I 
dont think that means  that the advice  Mr F subsequently received was obviously wrong, to 
extent that RSA shouldve reasonably questioned it. Its not uncommon for legal advice to 
change once the legal representative  is in receipt of documentation  and more  information. 
Generally, when a LEI insurer receives an unfavourable assessment on prospects, funding  
is withdrawn but if the policyholder has any further  comments or documents  in response to 
the assessment,  wed usually expect the LEI insurer to pass  these on to the legal 
representative for further consideration.  
I can see that Mr F did provide further  information and the senior associate solicitor  at the 
law firm did subsequently arrange  a meeting for Mr F to meet with him and the solicitor, who 
provided the assessment. So, I think when carrying out its claims handling function on behalf 
of RSA as part of the delegated authority it had, the law firm acted reasonably by arranging  
for the further  evidence to be reconsidered.
Further, subsequent  to that meeting, and after the solicitor at the law firm advised  that 
prospects of Mr F succeeding in his claim remained below 51%, he was told that should he 
receive a more favourable second  opinion from a solicitor, it would reconsider the 
assessment  or if he wanted, the law firm offered to instruct  a barrister  on behalf of Mr F to 
provide another opinion on prospects, at Mr Fs initial expense. Thats in line with what  I 
wouldve reasonably  expected RSA to have done.
Mr F has confirmed that he didnt obtain a second opinion from a legal specialist  advising  
that he had reasonable prospects of succeeding  in his claim. Hes told us that events have 
moved on and his claim is proceeding to the land tribunal. Of course, its up to Mr F whether  
he chooses to do so, but if he does now obtain a legal opinion  setting out whats happened 
and that prospects of him succeeding in his claim(s)  are at 51% or above, he should forward 
this to RSA to consider. Unless he does so, I dont  think RSA are obliged to do anything  
further.
suitably qualified representation
Ref: DRN68981843RSA is required to appoint a suitably qualified representative to act for Mr F under
the policy. Looking  at the areas in which the law firm practice, Im satisfied that it did have
the required experience to represent Mr F in his claim.
Ive taken on board what Mr F says about  the expertise of the individuals who advised  him, 
but theyre both qualified  solicitors  and have  been  for a number of years. Theyre  also 
experienced litigators. So, Im persuaded RSA appointed a suitably qualified representative 
as its required to do under the terms of the LEI policy. And even if the associate solicitor 
wasnt qualified in Scottish law, I dont think that means Mr F didnt receive  suitably qualified  
representation  particularly as the solicitor who had day to day conduct of his claim is listed  
as a practicing  solicitor  with the Law Society  of Scotland.
subsequent, and different, reasons used to decline an element of the claim 
After the law firm issued  the final response letter  on behalf of RSA in October  2018,  Mr F 
raised further concerns about the advice hed received  after hed requested  access to its 
case file. He was unhappy that the solicitor  didnt prepare for the meeting that took place to 
discuss the further information  Mr F provided in response to his initial assessment on 
prospects. He was also concerned that the solicitor didnt  seem to grasp fundamental 
aspects of property  law and had failed to understand the significance of there being  an 
unincorporated association. As Ive said above, we dont have the power to look into the 
conduct of the law firm in its capacity of Mr Fs legal advisor and the advice it provided.  
However, I have considered whether,  in response to the further points Mr F made to the law 
firm in around February 2019, he was given different reasons for his claim being declined 
under the policy.  Thats  because the law firm had delegated authority to make  decisions 
regarding the scope of the policys coverage on behalf of RSA.
In the final response  letter  dated  October  2018,  and in an email  dated 8 March  2019, Mr F 
was told that the aspect  of his claim which he said the law firm had fundamentally 
misunderstood related to a criminal  cause  of action. And as such that type of claim wasnt 
covered under the policy. I can see why Mr F mightve been confused as the initial  
assessment letter from the law firm dated  5 July 2018 confirmed the subject matter of his 
claims related to the interference of his rights  associated with his home  and so were covered 
under the residential section of the policy (albeit  they didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success). However, in that same  letter  the solicitor did advise that a criminal act hadnt  been 
committed under certain legislation  - but if Mr F suspected otherwise, he should report  the 
matter to the police.  
Whilst, I think it couldve been made clearer that this aspect of his claim wasnt  covered 
under the policy  at the time the initial assessment was made (as it related to criminal 
proceedings), Im not persuaded  that Mr F has lost out as a result in this particular case. 
From what  Ive seen, Im persuaded criminal proceedings  arent  covered under the policy 
and Mr F had been advised  that this aspect  of his claim  wouldnt be funded under the policy 
in the initial  assessment made by the solicitor  albeit for a different reason (that it didnt 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success).
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Ref: DRN68981844Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6898184