K822xcomplaint
Mr C has said hes experienced problems in banking with TSB Bank Plc.
background 
From April 2018, TSB had problems  with its Information Technology  system.  Mr C has 
explained that TSBs system issues caused  him internet banking access  and usage 
problems for a while.
In May 2018, Mr C started  the process  of switching one of his TSB bank accounts  to a third 
party bank. He also asked  TSB to cancel two direct debits that were set up on his bank 
accounts.
The switch  was delayed  because TSB had two power of attorneys POAs listed  on Mr Cs 
account in error. Mr C says he spent  lots of time on the telephone  and visiting  branches to 
resolve the situation so that the switch could go ahead  incurring telephone call costs  of 
£21.93.
Mr C has concerns that there may have  been security or privacy  breaches because the 
POAs were linked  to him; and that letters may have been sent to people other than himself 
about his personal  banking  information.  Hes provided copies of two letters  that were sent to 
his address confirming  that his direct debits  had been cancelled as instructed. Both letters 
were addressed to one of the POAs.  
Our investigators recommended that TSB refund Mr Cs telephone call costs of £21.93  and 
pay him £300 in compensation  for his trouble and upset in this matter.  It doesnt seem that 
TSB responded to the recommendation, and Mr C wasnt satisfied that his complaint had 
been fully dealt with. He wanted it to be passed  to an ombudsman to decide,  and he asked 
the following  questions:
Why and when  were the POAs  linked to him?
How many letters have been sent about his account to persons other than himself?
Could  the POAs have affected his credit score  or credit  applications?
What privacy and financial regulations has TSB broken?
Have other people  been affected by the same or similar issues?
Has TSB informed the regulator  of its mistake?
Have the POAs been  removed?
Mr C also said that TSB has shown gross ineptitude in this matter, and theres been a major  
breach of his privacy.  He believes that the potential impact must be considered.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 11 September 2019. Ive set out my findings below.
In corresponding  with us, Mr C raised  questions such as, have other  people  been affected 
by the same or similar  issues? And, has TSB informed  the regulator  of its mistake? But 
I said I wouldnt be looking at or commenting on the wider  issues.  That is not my role. 
I explained that Id look at the specifics of this individual complaint, to decide if TSB has 
made an error in dealing  with Mr C and his accounts  in the circumstances. And if it has, Id 
decide what TSB should reasonably do to put things right for Mr C  this could include 
Ref: DRN69020612correcting the error,  reimbursing any financial  losses  Mr C has incurred, and paying 
compensation. But I explained  that it wouldnt include an award  for the potential  but 
unrealised impact of any error. Mr C has asked whether the POAs couldve affected his 
credit score or credit  applications. And I said they may have done, but I cant look to redress  
Mr C for this if he didnt experience any adverse  consequences. 
It was clear to me that TSB made  an error in this case. The POAs were linked to Mr C, and 
they shouldnt  have been.
Mr C is worried  that his security and privacy has been breached.  But I couldnt see any 
evidence of this. I said that letters have been sent out addressed  to one of the POAs,  but 
they were sent to Mr Cs address. And from what I could see, no post wouldve been sent 
out to an address Mr C didnt reside at. I reiterated  that I cant  look to redress  Mr C for a 
hypothetical loss, or a potential impact that went unrealised.
TSB hasnt  been able to say exactly why or when the POAs were linked to Mr C. And I could 
appreciate why being unable to get a definite  answer about what  happened is frustrating for 
him. But TSB has said that during  its migration period in April 2018,  there  were  known  issues 
with previous relationships being  added to accounts  as POAs or other linked relations. And 
there was an issue where personal customers who may have previously had relationship 
links due to business  or charity accounts  were being linked to other customer  profiles  as 
though they were POAs. In the circumstances, I thought this was the most likely explanation  
as what happened  and when, and I thought it went far enough.
I said I understood that Mr Cs account was switched in June. So I thought the POAs  must 
have been removed by then for the switch to go ahead. And Id seen screenshots showing  
the POAs were linked  to Mr C at the time the switch  was first attempted, but not when it was 
successfully attempted  a second time. Id also seen evidence that there are no relationship  
links currently  for Mr C. So I was satisfied that the error has been  corrected.
I was pleased to see that the POAs were delinked  from Mr C without undue delay after 
TSBs error  was brought to its attention. But I saw that Mr Cs said hes spent a lot of time 
and effort  pursuing  his complaint. And from what hes said, I didnt doubt that this matter has 
troubled him. 
I provisionally decided  that it would be fair for TSB to reimburse  Mr Cs financial costs of 
pursuing the complaint  hes said he incurred telephone call costs  of £21.93. And for TSB to 
pay Mr C some compensation for his trouble and upset  I was satisfied  that £300 is a fair 
and reasonable amount in consideration of all the circumstances.
I invited Mr C and TSB to send me any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C responded to say that he accepts my provisional decision. And TSB said it had no 
objections to it.
Ref: DRN69020613my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, and no further information has been 
submitted for me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should:
reimburse Mr Cs telephone call costs of £21.93
pay Mr C £300 compensation for his trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6902061