K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 2000  (it was arranged at the end of 1999) at the same 
time as taking out a mortgage. Their  recollection  is that they applied for the mortgage and 
PPI policy  in branch.  
The policy provided  sole cover for Mr R for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £170 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £8.84 a month.  
At the time,  Mr R was employed  in the car industry.  He has told us he was entitled to 
between six-and  12-months  employee  pay if he was too unwell to work. Mr R would also 
receive redundancy pay as well as death  in service benefit. He hasnt told us of any other 
means  such as savings  or an insurance policy he could have used  to make his mortgage 
repayments should he be unable to work. Mr R has said he was in good  health at the time of 
the sale. 
Mrs R was employed as a sales assistant for a high street  retailer.  She has told us she was 
entitled to between six-and 12-months employee pay if she was too unwell to work. She 
would also receive  redundancy pay if she lost her job and had death in service benefit.      
Mrs R hasnt told us of any other means  she could have relied upon to make  her mortgage 
repayments in the event  she wasnt able to work. Mr R has told us she was in good health  at 
the time of the sale.  
As the policy was for the sole benefit  of Mr R, I will mostly  be considering his circumstances 
at the time of the sale. 
CBS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN62669042claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs R about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs R and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in February 2000  before  the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN62669043There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN62669044-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent                  
Mr and Mrs R suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs R say they were 
pressured into taking  the policy and they wouldnt be given the mortgage otherwise.
CBS hasnt been able to give us all of the paperwork from the time of the sale,  but I dont 
find this surprising as the mortgage and PPI was taken over 20 years  ago. But it has been 
able to provide  an example copy of PPI application form and I have no reason to think        
Mr and Mrs R didnt see the same  or similar. 
On the sample  PPI application form theres  a section to select who should  be covered, the 
total benefit required, and a choice about  the type of cover needed. And Ive borne in mind 
that Mr and Mrs R chose  the policy to be for the sole benefit  of Mr R rather than in their joint 
names suggesting they made some sort of decision about this. Mr and Mrs R would also 
have to complete  a direct debit mandate to set up payment for the PPI.
The mortgage application itself has a separate section entitled MORTGAGE PAYMENT  
PROTECTION INSURANCE  and I see the box has been ticked to say I/We have or intend 
to arrange Coventry  Mortgage Payment Protection  Insurance. There  were equally prominent 
boxes that Mr and Mrs R could have ticked to say they didnt  want  the PPI or that they were 
arranging it elsewhere.  
While I accept that pressure is subjective and I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs R, 
looking at the paperwork  the PPI application  being  separate from the mortgage application 
 I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy was optional  and they agreed  to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN62669045did CBS provide advice?
CBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs R disagree.  Looking at what 
happened when  CBS sold Mr and Mrs R the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
CBS has been  able to give us a copy of its notes about the contact it had with Mr and Mrs R 
from the time of the sale.
And I see from those notes there was a phone call on 15 November 1999 and CBSs 
representative has noted Spoke to [Mr R] confirming  his intentions regarding  app as I 
anticipated receipt of the app at the end of last week.  Apparently [Mrs R] is filling  in the forms 
today and should bring in the forms tomorrow  as she only works in [her place of work]. I 
offered them  the opportunity of making an appointment should  they require  assistance  filling  
in the forms. 
I note the application form Ive referred  to above is dated 15 November 1999  the date of 
the call  so that suggests Mrs R did complete the forms on that day as discussed during the 
call and returned them to the branch the following day or shortly after.  So, it seems most 
likely the forms were  completed without the assistance of CBSs representative and no 
meeting took place  as was offered by the representative. 
And as Ive found  the forms were completed by Mr and Mrs R in their own time and in the 
absence of a representative of CBS,  I think its most  likely  no advice was given, and it was  
Mr and Mrs Rs own decision  to take the PPI.
This means  CBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr R 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs R 
agreed to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think CBS gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN62669046In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did CBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did         
Mr and Mrs R suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs R. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not            
Mr and Mrs R would  have still taken out the policy, had CBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs R say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr R being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what              
Mr and Mrs R thought  they were getting is not exactly  what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs R have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs R were given  about  benefit was clear  they had to choose the 
amount of benefit  they wanted  on the PPI application. But the information  about other 
aspects of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should 
have been.  
Ref: DRN62669047Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear CBS told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs R would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with CBS at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  CBS made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs R would get back in 
return in the event Mr R made a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Rs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  condition or disease  which  Mr R knew  
of, or should  reasonably have known  of, on the start date of the policy,  or any 
medical condition  or disease for which he had received treatment, advice or were 
referred for investigation during the 12 months  before the start date of the policy  and 
which recurred within 12 months of the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job or any other  work which he was reasonably qualified, as certified by a 
doctor.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs R pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr R was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr R 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr R didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Ref: DRN62669048If Mr and Mrs R had known they could only claim for disability if Mr R be unable  to do his 
own job or any other work which he was reasonably qualified, as certified by a doctor, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I accept it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been overly  
concerned given that if Mr R was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
CBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period  (but I do note the sample PPI application gave them a choice of nine- or 12-
months cover and they chose 12 months,  so they may have had some idea). And this may 
have differed from what they expected  and might have hoped for  but 12 months was a 
longer period than Mr R would have received full sick pay for, and his statutory redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr R be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Rs sick pay or redundancy money for other  use. And I 
note from the mortgage  application that Mrs R earned considerably less than Mr R so I think 
they may have struggled if Mr R wasnt working. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr R were  made  redundant, or unable to work through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that                  
Mr and Mrs R would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account                     
Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
Ref: DRN62669049position Mr and Mrs R found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position  
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think CBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
CBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2000  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 March  2021.
Catherine Langley
Ref: DRN626690410ombudsman
Ref: DRN6266904