K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains, on behalf of himself  and Mrs C, about difficulties setting up a standing order 
with TSB Bank plc.
background
Mr and Mrs C had a joint account and individual accounts with TSB. In July 2018 they tried 
to set up a standing order. But TSB declined this and blocked their accounts. Mr C tried to 
resolve this over the phone but, after waiting  30 minutes to get through,  he was unable  to do 
so. TSB told Mr and Mrs C to go into their local branch - so they did. Mr and Mrs C told us 
they then had to explain  what had happened  in front of a queue  of people, some  of whom 
they knew. They found this very embarrassing. After  about an hour in branch, their accounts  
were unblocked.
Mr and Mrs C returned home and tried twice  more to set up the standing order. But they had 
the same  problem. Mr C phoned  TSB twice and spent over 45 minutes  on the phone  before 
the issue was resolved.  The problem  also meant  they received around 12 automated calls 
which tied up their landline when  they were expecting another call.
So, Mr and Mrs C complained. But they had further difficulties after theyd complained.  
They told us Mr C had to phone TSB repeatedly over the following six months  about  the 
complaint. They explained call waiting times were lengthy, that he was promised call backs  
that never happened, that he was given conflicting information and that some of this 
happened whilst they were on holiday.  TSB delayed in allocating  the case and didnt 
respond until late 2018. So, Mr and Mrs C also complained about  the way their complaint 
was handled.
Around this time TSB had substantial IT issues which were covered  in the media.  
This impacted a lot of people  and TSB have  told us call waiting times were much  longer than 
normal. TSB also said they received a very high number of complaints which meant 
customers were  waiting  much longer than normal for a response.
TSB upheld  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and apologised. They  agreed  to compensate them  
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. They also added a payment of £50 to cover  
the costs of the calls, fuel and parking when they visited the branch. But Mr and Mrs C didnt 
think this was enough for the distress, embarrassment and inconvenience so they asked us 
to look at their complaint.  They  asked for compensation  of between £475 and £750 each. 
Our adjudicator found the compensation offered by TSB was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. So, its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have now set up the standing order. And TSB have acknowledged and 
apologised for their mistakes and the poor service. So, what I need  to consider is the 
compensation already paid and whether its fair. 
Ref: DRN69073002As an aside,  Ive noted theres been some conflicting information given by TSB over whether 
the compensation offered  was for Mr C or for both Mr and Mrs C. This was a joint account 
and so I will consider  the impact on both Mr and Mrs C when deciding whether the 
compensation offered is reasonable.
TSB have  awarded £50 for potential financial losses caused.  Although  Ive seen  no evidence 
of financial loss, based on what Mr and Mrs C have told us about what they had to do, I think  
this is more than reasonable in the circumstances. 
It seems  to me the crux of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is the inconvenience and upset caused. 
Although a number  of issues  have been raised  by Mr and Mrs C, this decision  only refers to 
those I consider to be materially  relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I can see this problem  took quite a bit of Mr and Mrs Cs time. As well as a visit to the branch  
which impacted both of them, Mr C has told us hes had around fifteen calls with TSB,  
spending several hours on the phone. Many of these calls were Mr C chasing his complaint.  
And whilst I wouldnt hold a business  responsible if a consumer decided  to chase a 
complaint disproportionately, Mr Cs tell us that nearly all of these were made after he was 
given deadlines  or promises of call backs that didnt happen. And I have  no reason to doubt  
Mr Cs account here,  particularly given what I know about the difficulties TSB were  having at 
the time.  So, I think its reasonable TSB compensate him for this time.  But I cant  say this 
was also an inconvenience to Mrs C because she didnt  make the calls. 
Ive also thought about the fact both Mr and Mrs C were inconvenienced in other ways, for 
example, their accounts were frozen,  their landline temporarily blocked by automated  calls 
and they had to chase  TSB whilst on holiday. I can understand why these things  would have 
been frustrating  and stressful. But I also noted these issues were  temporary  and so the 
impact of them would have been  less. 
Mr and Mrs C were also clearly very embarrassed by having to explain their accounts had 
been frozen in front of people they knew. And I can completely understand why they would 
feel this way. Clearly this wouldnt have happened if TSB hadnt  made  a mistake.  But Ive 
also thought about the fact its possible to ask to speak  to a staff member in private. So, I do 
think this impact could have been  mitigated by Mr and Mrs C. 
Whats apparent from the complaint forms Ive seen is how let down Mr and Mrs C feel by 
the customer service they received. Given the multiple promised call backs  that didnt 
happen and the fact they were repeatedly given conflicting, sometimes  inaccurate 
information, I can understand  why they feel like this. But Ive noted a lot of these issues 
occurred after the standing order had been  resolved.  And I do think this is relevant to the 
impact  by this time Mr and Mrs C were  only waiting  on compensation. Ive also noted that 
during this time TSB wrote to them more than once  apologising for the delay in dealing  with 
their complaint. Which  means they were updated.  So, whilst I appreciate this caused some  
stress because it was an extra thing to think about for six months, I dont think this delay had 
a significant impact on them. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience  is 
reasonable in these  particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN69073003my final decision
For all of these reasons, Im of the view the payment  of £300 TSB Bank plc already made is 
fair compensation in the circumstances. Im not going to make  any further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6907300