K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  unfairly settled a claim on his car insurance 
policy. Mr B also complains about the increase  in his premium following the claim and the 
poor claim  handling. 
For ease of reading any reference  to Ageas includes its agents. 
background
Mr B was away  for a few weeks. When he returned,  he discovered a notice  of intended 
prosecution from the police. Hed been accused  of leaving the scene of the accident  after 
hitting another  car in a car park. Mr B said the police told him the third party  had got his 
details from a note which was left by a witness on their car. Mr B agreed  he was the driver of 
the car but didnt think hed hit another car. 
A few months later Mr B received a letter from Ageas  about  the accident,  so he called  to 
discuss it. During the call Mr B agreed thered been  an accident but said as far as he was 
concerned it was a light touch and didnt cause any damage.  He asked for photos of the 
damage to prove hed hit the other car. 
Ageas reviewed the claim and settled it as Mr B had admitted  liability.  Mr B wasnt  happy  
and complained. He said he hadnt seen photos  of the damage  and that he hadnt hit the 
other car or admitted liability  for the accident. Ageas sent an engineer to review Mr Bs car 
who said there was damage  on it which was consistent with damage  to the other  partys  car. 
Because of this Ageas didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint here.  He said he hadnt admitted to hitting the 
other car. He also said his renewal premium had increased because of the claim and Ageas 
had taken too long to investigate the claim. As Mr B didnt agree he brought his complaint 
here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Bs claim and didnt recommend it was upheld.  She found  that 
Mr B had agreed thered been  contact  between his car and the other  one. Because  of this, 
and the engineers evidence, she thought  Ageas had settled Mr Bs claim fairly.  She also 
found that the increase  in premium was because of Mr Bs no claims bonus being  reduced  
and that hed been treated the same as other customers. 
As Mr B didnt agree  the complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts.  
However, we look to see that an insurer  has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the policy. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy say Ageas can take over and defend or settle a 
claim against his policy  as it sees fit. This might mean it makes  a decision Mr B disagrees 
with, but the policy allows  it to do so. My role is to see that it came to that decision fairly.  
Ref: DRN67453792Ageas said the engineer who reviewed Mr Bs car said the damage on Mr Bs car was 
consistent with the damage to the third partys car. It also said Mr B had agreed hed hit the 
other car, and a witness had left Mr Bs details for the third party.  Because of this Ageas said 
it had no choice but to settle the claim. 
I understand Mr B disputes the engineers findings  and says that he didnt admit to hitting the 
third partys  car. Even if I discounted  these  pieces of evidence,  Im not persuaded Ageas has 
acted unreasonably. I say this because the third party got Mr Bs details by a witness leaving 
a note on their car. The incident was also reported  to the police and Mr B doesnt dispute 
being in the same location at the time of the incident. When taking all of this into account  Im 
satisfied Ageas has come to its decision to settle  the claim fairly. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration at the impact this claim has had on his premium.  But his 
premium increased because of his no claims being  reduced and Im satisfied Ageas settled 
the claim fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  I can also see that 
while Mr B is unhappy  with the length  of time it took to investigate  the claim, Ageas  wasnt 
made aware  of it straight away. So while it may not have progressed it as quickly as hed 
have liked, I dont think a delay has disadvantaged  Mr B. Im therefore not going to instruct 
Ageas to do anything  differently. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6745379