K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz  Finance, wasnt  
of satisfactory quality.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and have been  set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus  on giving the reasons for 
my decision.  
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr T was more than two 
years old, had been driven  for 26,729 miles and had a price of £24,844. Satisfactory quality 
also covers durability which  means that the components within the car must  be durable and 
last a reasonable amount  of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number 
of factors. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T has complained about some  issues with the car including  a fuel leak,  the 
automatic parking  and steering  those issues were all repaired by the dealer at no 
cost to him and Ive seen no evidence to show that the repairs  werent successful ;
hes also complained  that the cars  alloy wheels were cracked;
the dealer  says that the car had been driven  for 1,000 miles between  being supplied 
to Mr T and him complaining about the cracked wheels and that no damage to the 
wheels was noted when the car was being prepared  for sale, when the pre-delivery 
inspection took place or when Mr T signed a handover sheet (and copies of the job 
cards for the work undertaken when the car was being prepared for sale have been 
provided);
I consider it to be more likely than not that, if the wheels had been  cracked  before the 
car was supplied to Mr T, the cracks would have been identified during the 
preparatory work or on the pre-delivery  inspection;
Mr T was able to drive the car for 1,000 miles before the cracks were noted and Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the cracks were present 
when the car was supplied to him;
the dealer  offered Mr T to replace  the alloy wheels at cost price and not to charge 
him for the labour  - and then a discounted price was arranged for the wheels to be 
repaired (and Mercedes-Benz Finance  says that the repairer advised that the 
damage had been  caused by the car hitting pot holes or kerbs); and
Ref: DRN60548702Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show  that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T because of damage to the cars 
wheels - so I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me 
to require Mercedes-Benz Finance  to reimburse Mr T for the cost of the repair  of the 
cracked wheels, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response 
to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6054870