K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Pounds to Pocket. Mr R says Pounds to Pocket was irresponsible to lend to him 
because it didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks  and he couldnt afford the loans.  
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in February.  I have included  a copy of my provisional 
decision at the end of this document and so I wont repeat its content here.
Mr R didnt respond to my provisional decision,  Pounds to Pocket did and disagreed with it. It 
said that
there were  substantial  breaking periods ranging from 16-47 days throughout the time 
Mr [R] held these loans  as well as the fact that loans 3 & 4 amounts fluctuated for lesser 
amounts by 48% & 50% from that of their preceding loans; based off consumer  borrowing  
pattern analysis we've completed, consumers typically will borrow less than 15 days  after 
repaying a loan balance and the amounts requested tend to increase  over a period of time 
consistently. In your assessment you stated that loan 4 should've been deemed  
unsustainable but based off Mr [R]s lending  history preceding loan 4, I think it's fair to 
assume that loan 4 as well as the loans  funded  after were  very sustainable seeing as how 
he continued his stellar and responsible borrowing patterns with early repayments.
The lender  also said
Although there were smaller breaking periods in between Mr [R]s final loans, we couldn't  
foresee that funding  these instalment loans that offered long term repayments would've been  
a financial burden  on Mr [R] nor would the affordability of these loans be deemed 
unsustainable as Mr [R] saved a total of £2,801.13  and he may have saved more  but he filed 
his FOS complaint during the repayment  of the final loan.
Pounds to Pocket also provided  a document that details its entire  lending  process, saying  it 
included all the checks that we perform prior to lending, the screenshots of customer 
applications as well as the sample acknowledgement  from the contract that customer  have 
to check when their repayment  amount is greater than their estimated disposable  income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. 
I appreciate that this is going to be disappointing for Pounds to Pocket but having carefully 
considered what  it has said in response to my provisional decision, I am still of the view that 
it should not have agreed  to lend to Mr R from August  2017.  I will not repeat everything Ive 
said in my provisional decision (as this is set out later in this document) but I will respond  to 
its specific objections.
Pounds to Pockets lending process  document
Ref: DRN60114202The document Pounds to Pocket sent in response to my provisional decision is one it sends 
to this Service as a matter  of course  on all its complaints. It is a generic  document which 
doesnt directly address  any of the points  I made  in my provisional decision but explains why 
it is of the view that all of its lending decisions were made responsibly after March 2015. I 
said in my decision that I was not going to expand further on this generic argument  and I will 
not do so here. 
However, I want to reassure Pounds to Pocket that I have read this document  and 
considered its content in making my decision. I understand from this that the sample 
acknowledgement mentioned only applied to its sister companys deferred payment loans 
and not to its own instalment loans.
breaking points  or gaps  in lending and loan amounts
I had considered the gaps in lending when making  my provisional  decision. I said
There were  some gaps in lending  but nothing beyond a few weeks.  There was one gap of 
about a month and a half between Mr Rs first and second loans but I dont think  it impacts 
on what happened later on. Mr R took out his fifth loan the day he repaid his fourth, and took 
out his sixth within about a week of repaying his fifth. Given this context and the loan 
amounts, I think for these loans, if not before,  the lender ought to have considered  that Mr R 
was showing signs of dependency.
Where there is a period of time between someone  repaying a loan and applying for another 
one, it might be reasonable  to conclude that their immediate funding  shortfall had been  met 
and that they were  not relying on high-cost short-term credit to meet  an ongoing need. And 
so it might be proportionate for a lender to carry out less stringent  checks  or gather less 
information than might be expected for an affordability assessment prior to or in the absence  
of such a gap. 
I disagree with Pounds to Pocket when it says that any gap of longer than 15 days  shows 
that a consumer isnt dependent on its loans. It might be reasonable to conclude  that if 
someone doesnt take out another loan for some time that they were  not relying  on high-cost 
short-term credit to meet an ongoing need. But I do not think there is an absolute figure for 
the length of time that signifies a dependency on such credit or one that signifies a lack of 
dependency. I am likely  to view a gap of one or two pay cycles differently to a gap of a year.  
But my conclusions about what a gap might  signify will depend on the circumstances of the 
consumer and the particulars of the lending relationship. 
In Mr Rs case there was a gap of about  a month and a half between  loans 1 and 2. But I am 
not upholding his complaint about  loan 2. There was a gap of just over two weeks  between 
loans 2 and 3 and a gap of about  the same between loans 3 and 4. My conclusion  remains 
that in this case I dont  think  the gap between Mr Rs first and second loans has a bearing on 
what came  later, except  perhaps to note that the gaps between  him repaying one loan and 
asking for another appeared to be decreasing. Mr R applied for a fifth loan on the same day 
he repaid his fourth, and then borrowed a sixth just over a week after repaying his fifth. In 
fact this pattern  of lending suggests to me that Mr R had an ongoing need which he was 
meeting with these  loans.
I appreciate that Mr R asked for a lower  amount  for his fourth loan. But it seems  the amount 
he potentially had available  to him to meet the repayments for this also decreased.  And this 
Ref: DRN60114203should have been of concern to the lender and prompted it to look further into Mr Rs 
circumstances before agreeing to lend again. 
I note that Pounds to Pocket refers to Mr Rs borrowing history as exhibiting  stellar and 
responsible lending patterns.  As I said in my provisional decision, I will not quote the 
specific regulations  that were in place at the time because I expect Pounds  to Pocket to be 
very familiar  with these, not least because of the explanations set out in previous 
ombudsman decisions.  I will point out however that these regulations  required lenders  to 
assess the risk to consumers of being able to meet  repayments in a sustainable way, not the 
risk to lenders of non-recovery of debt. Successfully repaying loans on time or early  does  not 
automatically mean that Mr R was able to make these repayments in a sustainable way in 
other words out of his usual income or savings.  And I dont agree that its fair to assume that 
Mr R managed to do so for all of his loans.
the affordability of the loans for Mr R
Ive set out in my provisional decision why Pounds to Pocket ought to have done  more to 
check that Mr Rs fourth, fifth and sixth loans were  affordable for him. Our adjudication 
explained in detail that Mr Rs usual expenses  and existing  debt repayments  amounted  to 
more than his income  for his last two loans. I explained in my provisional  decision that had 
the lender also looked further  into his circumstances before agreeing his fourth loan it would 
have understood  the extent of his indebtedness  and not agreed to further  credit. 
Pounds to Pocket says that it couldnt foresee that making his repayments on these  loans 
would have been a financial burden  for Mr R. As Ive explained I think the lender was on 
notice that Mr R may have been  experiencing difficulties based  on its own calculations of 
disposable income and Mr Rs pattern of borrowing. And, had it acted on this which  I think  it 
should have, it would  have understood that Mr R could not afford further  credit.
what Pounds to Pocket should do to put things right
As Ive concluded, Pounds to Pocket was irresponsible to lend to Mr R from August 2017. In 
order to put Mr R back in the position he would have been  in, Pounds  to Pocket should: 
-refund the interest and charges Mr Rs paid for his loans agreed after this point, namely 
loans 4, 5 and 6 as agreed on 12/08/2017, 30/09/2017  and 09/12/2017 respectively  and 
associated refinances  agreed in November 2017 and January 2017;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these from Mr Rs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. Pounds  to 
Pocket must  give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
I understand there is an outstanding balance  on Mr Rs final loan, which includes interest 
charges. Pounds to Pocket  should remove any interest owing  so there is only the principal 
remaining. It can offset this principal amount using the above refund,  should it wish, as long 
as it remains the debt owner. I would remind the lender  of its duty to treat Mr R fairly and 
sympathetically in the matter of repaying  any outstanding capital amount. 
Ref: DRN60114204my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  about  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as Pounds to Pocket  in part 
and require it to put things  right for him as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN60114205COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr R has complained about  short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as 
Pounds to Pocket. Mr R says Pounds to Pocket was irresponsible to lend to him because it didnt 
carry out sufficient affordability checks and he couldnt afford the loans.  
background
Pounds to Pocket  agreed six loans for Mr R from November 2016 to December  2017.  The amounts 
borrowed ranged  between £300 and £1,150  and all were to be repaid over 12 months1. Mr Rs last 
two loans  were refinanced  and additional principal taken out. Some of the information the lender 
provided is shown in the table below  (with figures rounded to the nearest pound).  
This includes a monthly estimated disposable income  figure. I dont know exactly  how this was 
calculated but the lender says it incorporated information about monthly  credit commitments from 
Mr Rs credit file checks.
Start RepaidPrincipal 
(£)Monthly 
Repayment 
Amount  (£)Monthly 
EDI (£)
1 23/11/2016 13/01/2017 900 153 547
2 01/03/2017 26/04/2017 1,150 182 665
3 12/05/2017 29/07/2017 600 92 360
4 12/08/2017 30/09/2017 300 73 95
5 30/09/2017 refinanced 900 143 581
5a 06/11/2017 01/12/2017 375 186 -
6 09/12/2017 refinanced 750 115 561
6a 31/01/2018 31/05/2018 1,125 295 -
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and recommended that Pounds to Pocket  refund the 
interest and charges that he paid on his last two loans. Pounds to Pocket didnt agree with this 
recommendation and so the case  has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Our adjudicator, having  looked  at everything, found that Pounds to Pocket didnt carry  out 
proportionate checks for Mr Rs last two loans. And, had it done so, the lender would  likely  have 
understood that these loans were not sustainably affordable for him because of the level of his 
existing financial commitments. These findings were  set out in some detail  in a view letter  to the 
lender.
Pounds to Pocket  didnt comment on our adjudicators  findings about the proportionality of its checks  
or the affordability of the loans, nor did it provide any new information  for me to consider. It responded  
to our adjudication saying:
1 With the exception of loan 4
Ref: DRN60114206In response to FOS assessment which recommends  CashEuroNet UK uphold  loans which  were 
funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that cannot agree  to FOS' recommendations. 
Please note that in CashEuroNet UK's initial response to FOS we provided detailed information 
indicating why the loans  were responsibly lent to Mr [R]. Furthermore, we would like to advise that we 
are currently  in talks with senior management at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, 
therefore we kindly ask that you move  this case for ombudsman queue for a final decision. 
Pounds to Pocket  first mentioned this argument in its business submissions  to us and again  in 
response to our adjudicators view.  In the view,  our adjudicator said:
I note what youve said about the loans Mr [R] borrowed from 2015  onward. However our job is to 
look not only into the rules  and regulations  set by the regulator at the time of borrowing  but also the 
law, good industry practice and all the available evidence and arguments to help us decide  whether  
we think what the business  has done is right or not. In this case  I don't think  you were  right to provide 
Mr [R] with some  of the loans he borrowed from 2015 onwards.
I fully agree with this point. This Service has responded  to Pounds to Pocket on this generic argument 
directly and through earlier final decisions. So I am not going to expand  on this point any further here, 
though I have  considered it alongside everything else in making my decision.  
I would remind Pounds to Pocket at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly  (my emphasis) by businesses.  In particular 
DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses  procedures for complaint handling should   
ensure that lessons learned as a result  of determinations  by the Ombudsman are effectively  applied 
in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who handled 
the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints received 
by the respondent and using this in training and development  of the individuals dealing with 
complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals  dealing with complaints in the 
respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Rs complaint and what  both parties  have  said about this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Mr R borrowed  the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the rules 
and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect Pounds to Pocket to be 
conversant with these  through previous ombudsman  decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  
set these out in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Mr Rs complaint, our adjudicator didnt uphold his complaint about his first 
four loans, saying that, based on the information the lender had, the checks  went  far enough. I agree 
with this conclusion for the first three loans. 
Ref: DRN60114207But, the lender had calculated  what it calls a monthly estimated disposable income or monthly EDI 
for all of the loans which showed that Mr R had £95 disposable income  a month when loan 4 was 
agreed. As the repayment for this loan was £73 per month for over six months, there was a 
foreseeable risk here that Mr R wouldnt be able to meet this repayment over this period without  
difficulty. As a homeowner who travelled to work, it wouldnt take very much unexpected  or seasonal 
expense over a six month period to leave Mr R in the position  of having to borrow to meet his loan 
repayments. Pounds to Pocket should have done more here to check if Mr R could meet  his 
repayments sustainably, and would likely  have  learned that he wouldnt be able to, for the same 
reasons as our adjudicator  gave for his later loans. So I dont think  Pounds to Pocket should have 
agreed to this loan either. 
Our adjudicator explained that Pounds  to Pocket ought to have carried  out further checks when  Mr R 
applied for his fifth and sixth loans. They explained that this was because Mr Rs fifth loan was three 
times the amount hed borrowed previously  and the length of time hed borrowed from Pounds to 
Pocket suggested a level of dependency on its loans.  They concluded that, had Pounds  to Pocket 
carried out proportionate  checks, it would have understood the extent  of Mr Rs normal  monthly  living 
costs and existing commitments and wouldnt have agreed to these. And, as mentioned, this was 
explained to both parties in a detailed view letter.
I have considered what Pounds to Pocket said in its original submission. The lender said that there 
were substantial breaking periods or gaps in borrowing of up to 47 days during the time Mr R 
borrowed from it. There were some gaps in lending  but nothing beyond  a few weeks. There was one 
gap of about a month and a half between Mr Rs first and second  loans but I dont think  it impacts on 
what happened later on. Mr R took out his fifth loan the day he repaid his fourth, and took out his sixth 
within about a week of repaying his fifth. Given this context and the loan amounts, I think for these  
loans, if not before,  the lender ought to have considered that Mr R was showing signs of dependency.  
Altogether, I agree with our adjudicators recommendation and reasoning. I think  Pounds to Pocket 
didnt carry out proportionate checks when  Mr R applied  for his fifth and sixth loan. And, had it done 
so, it would  likely have seen  that Mr R wouldnt be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
Furthermore, given the EDI figures Pounds to Pocket calculated,  I think  it should have considered that 
agreeing Mr Rs fourth loan would likely cause him financial difficulty, which further checks would 
have shown. And, as a responsible lender,  it would not then have agreed to these three loans. 
what Pounds to Pocket  should do to put things right
As Ive concluded, Pounds to Pocket was irresponsible to lend to Mr R from August 2017.  In order to 
put Mr R back  in the position he would have been in, Pounds  to Pocket should: 
-refund the interest and charges Mr Rs paid for his loans agreed after this point,  namely loans 4, 
5 and 6 as agreed on 12/08/2017, 30/09/2017 and 09/12/2017 respectively and associated  
refinances agreed in November 2017 and January 2017;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about these from Mr Rs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. Pounds  to 
Pocket must  give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
I understand there is an outstanding balance on Mr Rs final loan, which includes interest charges. 
Pounds to Pocket  should  remove any interest owing so there  is only the principal remaining. It can 
offset this principal amount  using the above refund, should  it wish, as long as it remains  the debt 
owner. I would remind the lender of its duty to treat Mr R fairly and sympathetically  in the matter of 
repaying any outstanding  capital amount. 
Ref: DRN6011420