K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my second provisional decision  in December  2018, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I still wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Mr and Mrs H responded with some  further comments.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence that changes  my decision, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same reasons.
I know that Mr and Mrs H disagree with this, but I thank them  for the time and effort that theyve put 
into their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ref: DRN66116002Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The policy only covered Mr H. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
To summarise, in my first provisional decision  I explained that I wasnt  intending to uphold this 
complaint, for these  main reasons:
I think that its more likely  than not that Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware that PPI was 
optional and they chose to take it out
I think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and that Mr and Mrs H had a need 
for the policy
Although its likely that Mr and Mrs H could have been given better  information  about the 
PPI, I dont  think that it would have  changed their decision about  taking it out.
My response to the key points that Mr and Mrs H have made are on page 3 of this letter. To 
help explain  my rationale and how Ive come  to my decision, Ive also included  my findings 
from the initial provisional decision directly below as my further explanations are also related 
to them.
Mr and Mrs H initially complained that they werent  aware that PPI had been attached 
to their mortgage. Theyve later said that they werent made  aware that PPI was 
optional. But the copies of some of the paperwork completed  at the time of sale dont 
support what theyve said.
Ive seen a separate PPI application form that has been signed separately to indicate 
that Mr H wanted to apply for PPI. Its dated  27 March  2000.
Ive seen two mortgage  quotation  documents. One of the quotations has PPI and the 
associated costs and the other doesnt.  Theyre also date stamped 27 March 2000. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they werent shown the quotation without PPI. I cant  fairly 
say whether or not Mr and Mrs H were shown  the quotation without PPI as I wasnt 
present at the meeting.  
On another document that has a section headed  Accident, Sickness  and 
Unemployment Insurance, Mr and Mrs H have signed separately in this section to 
indicate that they wanted to take PPI. Its dated  30 March  2000. Ive noted that the 
overall form that this section formed part of was signed by Mr and Mrs H on 
2 April 2000.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Halifax made  Mr and Mrs H aware  
that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN66116003Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. 
Ive considered that on the PPI application form, Mr H has indicted  that he had a   
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the time of sale. But I dont think  it would 
have been very difficult for Mr H to make a claim on this policy  because of his PEMC. 
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Hs existing means of making  their repayments if   
Mr H was unwell and unable to work  or made unemployed.  But this policy  could have 
paid out for up to 24 months for an accident and sickness claim. This is for longer 
than Mr Hs full sick pay entitlement.
Although Mr and Mrs H have said a relative could have loaned them money to make 
their repayments, their relative  may not have been  in a position  to help when needed 
as circumstances  can change.
Mr and Mrs H have referred  to other  policies  they had, such  as life cover.  But life 
cover isnt directly comparable to PPI.
So I still think that the recommendation was suitable and the policy  was right for 
Mr H.
I think Halifax couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. I say this 
because the cost of the PPI per month was shown on the mortgage  quotation 
document that included PPI. It was also shown  on the separate PPI application form 
that was completed  and Mr H signed to confirm that he wanted PPI. But there was a 
slight difference in the costs shown
Mr and Mrs H have said that they werent  aware  of the difference between the total 
theyd pay for their mortgage with and without PPI. Halifax has shown us two 
quotations that they say wouldve been shown to Mr and Mrs H - one with PPI and 
one without that show the approximate total cost. Mr and Mrs H have said they 
werent shown the quotation without PPI.
As Ive already  said, I simply cant say whether or not they were shown both 
quotations, but Im satisfied that they wouldve been reasonably aware  of the 
approximate cost per month  of the PPI policy.  Even if there was scenario whereby  
Mr and Mrs H didnt realise how much  theyd be paying for PPI, they paid for this PPI 
policy by a monthly premium that could be cancelled at any time. So I cant  fairly 
uphold for this reason.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr H 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what  theyve said about:
oNot being  able to see what the adviser  was doing on the computer. But 
theyve signed  the key documents and they didnt have to until theyd had a 
chance to review them 
oNot being  told about alternative  policies. But Halifax werent  obliged  to tell 
Ref: DRN66116004Mr and Mrs H about alternative  policies. I think that Halifax presented this PPI 
policy as optional.
oThe numbering of the pages.  But from experience  of looking at how Halifax  
send their submissions to our Service, the numbers at the top of the 
quotations generally are where theyve scanned documents onto their system 
electronically. Im satisfied that the text Page 1 of 2 represents that each 
quotation was part of a two page document. 
Im still currently not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
My point  about the pre-existing  medical  condition is in reference  to the nearest 
relevant policy  terms for this policy that show that PEMCs werent excluded under 
this policy. Im not referring to the claims process, but rather whether or not Mr H 
would have been able to claim  for his condition.  I apologise if this wasnt  clear.
When coming to my decision Ive considered what Mr H has told us about his 
employment circumstances. But I still think that he had a need for PPI, for the 
reasons Ive already explained.
My point  about the recommendation  being suitable is in relation to the sales process 
and that Halifax  made  a recommendation to take PPI. In the PPI application form, 
Halifax asked and recorded details of Mr Hs circumstances.  
In the mortgage  application, Halifax also says in the section  for PPI, We recommend 
that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme.  In addition, in the 
letter dated  27 March  2000, in which Halifax refers to the mortgage thats been 
recommended, it says that information has been  provided about insurance against  
accident, sickness and unemployment and its cost.  
Ive got no reason to doubt  what Mr H has said about his redundancy entitlement, but 
it still remains that this policy could have paid out for longer  up to 24 months.  So I 
cant fairly say that he didnt need  PPI as I think there was still a gap in his existing 
means of making  his repayments if he was made unemployed. 
To be clear, Im not discounting  Mr and Mrs Hs relatives help. Im simply stating that 
when the time might  come when Mr and Mrs H might have needed to ask their 
relatives for help,  they may not have been  in a position to be able to help them.  
Nobody can accurately predict  what the future will bring.  
The point  regarding  what  was or wasnt covered by the policy  is in relation to the 
information provided by Halifax during this sale. Ive assumed,  in fairness to Mr and 
Mrs H that they could have been given better information about PPI. 
So Ive gone  on to decide if they had been given all of the information  about all of the 
terms relating to this insurance whether theyd still have taken it out. Having  done  so, 
I think its more likely than not that better information  wouldnt have changed their 
decision as I havent seen that Mr H was affected  by any of the usual limitations or 
exclusions of the cover.
In relation to the review time, Im referring  to the sales process and Mr and Mrs H 
taking the time to read what they were signing regarding PPI. 
Ref: DRN66116005Ive to base my decision on all the available evidence before deciding what  I think  is 
more likely than not to have happened. Its not my role to take sides in any complaint. 
Im impartial  and base  my decision on the available evidence.  
Ive simply not seen strong evidence to support what Mr and Mrs H have said about 
the PPI being  presented as mandatory.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
If either  Mr and Mrs H or Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have anything  further to 
add, they should do so by 31 December 2018. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6611600