K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans was 
irresponsible when  it provided a number of loans to him.
background
This complaint is about seven short-term high-cost instalment loans Satsuma provided to 
Mr G between September 2014  and June 2015. I've prepared the table below from some  of 
the information Satsuma has given us about Mr Gs loans.
loan 
numberdate takenprincipal 
amounttermweekly  /monthly 
repaymentsdate repaid
1 04/09/14 £20026 
weeks£12.92 per week 27/02/15
2 11/03/15 £13013 
weeks£14.00 per week 27/04/15
3 28/04/15 £3003 
months£140.00 per month 30/06/15
4 17/05/15 £4006 
months£113.33 per monthoutstanding 
balance
5 03/06/15 £35026 
weeks£22.88 per weekoutstanding 
balance
6 06/06/15 £40030 
weeks£23.08 per weekoutstanding 
balance
7 09/06/15 £40021 
weeks£30.18 per weekoutstanding 
balance
In its final response letter,  Satsuma agreed to uphold  Mr Gs complaint about Loan  7. It 
offered to write-off the outstanding balance and remove  the entry about this loan from Mr Gs 
credit file.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  the loans from Loans 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. As the complaint hasnt been resolved yet its been passed  to me 
for a final decision.  If Mr G accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN68108112But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me point out that Satsuma was required to establish  whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. In particular  the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Satsuma couldnt  fairly be said to have done anything wrong 
when it provided  Loans  1, 2 and 3. And Mr G has accepted her view on this. Given, what 
Satsuma did check, how early it was in the lending relationship and the amounts borrowed 
(and to be repaid) and that Loans  1 and 2 were both repaid before Mr G took the next loan, 
Im also not persuaded that Satsuma  can be said to have acted irresponsibly when it 
provided these loans. So I'm not upholding  Mr Gs complaint about those.
However at the point  Mr G applied  for Loan 4 - the highest amount yet at £400 - I think  
Satsuma shouldve been alert to the risk that he wasnt  using  these loans for their intended 
purpose of plugging a temporary gap in his finances.  And that he wasnt  in a position to 
repay them in a sustainable way.
It had been over eight  months since Mr G began borrowing from Satsuma in 
September 2014. But there had only been  13 days when  he hadnt been  in debt to it. 
Furthermore, Loan 4 was taken whilst Loan 3 was still outstanding. Mr G hadnt yet made 
any repayments on Loan 3 at the point Satsuma approved  Loan  4. The whole  balance  was 
still outstanding.  And this meant that he was due to repay  over £253 per month to Satsuma 
for the two loans.  
Ref: DRN68108113Before Mr G repaid either Loans 3 or 4 he was approved for Loan 5. This was repayable 
weekly but over a calendar month  it worked  out to be almost  £100. So Junes repayments  on 
Loans 3, 4 and 5 were going to be somewhere  in the region of £350.  This was substantially  
more than hed been due to repay  each month on Loan 1  somewhere  in the region of £55 
per month. But his declared income and outgoings  hadnt changed significantly over that 
period. From  what I can see it looks as though he declared that he had an overall slightly  
lower disposable  income  at the point he took Loan  5.
In light of all this I think that Satsuma shouldve realised that it was unlikely Mr G would be 
able to make  repayments on Loans  4 and 5 in a sustainable way. Indeed if it had done what  
I consider to be proportionate checks it wouldve noted that Mr G was not only in debt to it 
but to numerous other short term lenders. He also had high cost credit cards, other  high cost 
loans such as a log-book loan and was in a debt management plan. I can also see what  
appear to be a significant number of gambling transactions  on Mr Gs banks statements. All 
of this information would likely have become apparent to Satsuma had it done proportionate 
checks. And it wouldve been clear to Satsuma that Mr G wouldnt be able to repay these 
loans sustainably.
However Satsuma went on to provide another two loans. Loans 6 and 7 were both for £400. 
This meant that Mr G had borrowed £1,150  from Satsuma through three loans over a six-day  
period. And he still hadnt repaid Loans 3 and 4. (Loan 3 was eventually  settled at the end of 
June 2015, although Loans 4, 5, 6 and 7 werent  repaid as intended).
Ive thought about the overall  pattern  of lending. In nine months Mr G had taken seven loans 
for generally  increasing  amounts.  He hadnt  cleared some of his earlier  loans. So I think  that 
when Mr G asked for his sixth loan Satsuma ought  to have realised  it was more likely than 
not that Mr G was having to borrow further  to cover the hole in his finances  caused by him 
having to repay earlier  credit  and this wasnt sustainable and was causing  him harm.  The 
effect was to unfairly prolong Mr Gs indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive credit  
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. Additionally the number of 
loans and the length of time over which Mr G was borrowing from Satsuma was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So, in summary,  Im also upholding Mr Gs complaint about Loans  4 onwards and Satsuma 
should put things right.
putting things right
Our usual  approach - where things have gone wrong - is to try to put a consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been  otherwise. This isnt straightforward where consumers have had 
the benefit of capital  advances - as in this case.  Satsuma has already agreed to write-off  the 
outstanding balance on Loan  7. And, I think a write off of the whole balance on Loan 7 is 
right and fair thing  to do in the circumstances  of this complaint - which  Ive already outlined 
above. This loan should never  have  been  given - and Satsuma agrees. Whats more,  I think  
its likely  that Mr Gs difficulties were  severely  aggravated  as a result of him being given 
Loan 7. And it wasnt likely that hed ever be in a position to repay this loan in full (interest  or 
capital) given what  else he owed to Satsuma. At that point Mr G hadnt yet repaid any of the 
previous four loans and this took the total amount of capital on these five live loans to 
somewhere in the region  of £1,850. So I agree with Satsumas decision to write off the whole 
balance on Loan  7.
Ref: DRN68108114So now Ill turn to how Satsuma should  put things right as regards the other  loans which I 
think shouldnt have  been given (Loans 4, 5 and 6).
I understand that there may be outstanding balances  on Loans 4, 5 and 6. But I also 
understand that a third party debt collector  has been  in touch with Mr G so the current 
situation as regards what - if anything - is still owed, is unclear. From what  Mr G tells us it 
seems that he has made repayments on Loans 4, 5 and 6. But he hasnt yet repaid the 
capital sums  originally borrowed. If Satsuma has sold the outstanding debts it should buy 
them back  if its able to do so and then take the following  steps. If Satsuma is not able to buy 
the debts back  then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined 
below.
I require Satsuma to do the following in respect  of Loans 4, 5 and 6: 
A)It should add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest,  
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance
B)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A), calculated from the date Mr G originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)It should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments towards the principal  on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Mr G 
having made overpayments on any of the outstanding loans then Satsuma should  
add 8% simple interest* to those  overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. If there are no other  upheld  
loans with outstanding balances then Satsuma should refund this sum together  with 
the amounts calculated in A) and B) and move  to step E) 
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance on any of the loans being upheld after all 
interest, fees and charges from the balance have been removed, and any 
repayments made by Mr G have been treated as though they had been repayments 
of the principal then the amounts calculated in A), B) and C) may be used to repay 
any balance remaining on those outstanding loans.  If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr G. However if there  is still an outstanding balance  then 
Satsuma should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr G a certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one.
E)Satsuma should remove  any negative information about Loans 4 and 5 from Mr Gs 
credit file. The number  of loans taken from Loan  6 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries  about Loans 6 and 7 should be 
removed from Mr Gs credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Provident Personal  
Credit Limited should put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Ref: DRN68108115EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6810811