K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Rooftop Mortgages  Limited  unfairly rejected his request to release its 
security over part of his property. He also complains about its charges for considering his 
request.
background
Mr O has a mortgage with RML.  In September 2017  Mr O asked RML to release  its security 
over part of the property  which he wants to develop  separately. RML declined Mr Os 
request. Mr O says the valuation carried out on RMLs behalf was unfair.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She said RML told 
Mr O about its charges, which included an administration fee and valuation  fee. After 
considering the valuation  report, RML declined the request. It didnt act unreasonably. 
Mr O didnt agree. In particular, he says the valuation carried out for RML  is too low as 
compared to valuations hes been given  by estate agents and the prices that similar houses 
are being  marketed for. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr O asked that I call him so that he can explain his points and why he considers the 
valuation carried out on behalf of RML isnt correct. The investigator  explained  that its 
unlikely this would be necessary. And after reading all the evidence,  comments  and notes of 
telephone calls I find that I have enough information  to reach a fair decision about this 
complaint. 
In September  2017 Mr O contacted RML. He asked that part of his property be released 
from its security. RML told him what hed need to provide and that he would have  to pay an 
administration fee of £100 and for the cost of a valuation. 
RML appointed a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS) to carry out 
the valuation.  The valuation report describes the current state of the property and the 
proposed changes. It sets out the surveyors valuation of the property as it is and after the 
proposed changes. RML appointed a suitably qualified person to carry out the valuation.  I 
think its reasonable for RML to rely on the report when making a decision about whether  to 
release its security over part of the property. 
Mr O has been given  higher valuations by several estate agents. RML sent copies to its 
underwriters. I think it was fair for RML to consider the information provided by Mr O. But I 
dont think its reasonable to say that it has to disregard the valuation  by the RICS surveyor.
Mr O doesnt agree  with the valuation. He says the surveyor didnt answer his questions  
during his visit. But the surveyor  was appointed  to carry out a valuation  on behalf of RML, so 
that it could assess  whether  the property would  remain suitable  security for the loan. 
Ref: DRN61515662RML considered Mr Os request. RML told Mr O in advance  about its fees and the cost of the 
valuation. It explained  why it didnt consent  to releasing its security  over part of the property.  
I understand that Mr O is disappointed with the outcome. But I dont think RML acted unfairly  
or unreasonably  when  it declined Mr Os request.  I dont think its reasonable to require RML 
to change its decision or to refund the fees paid by Mr O in relation to his request.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6151566