K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that esure  Insurance Limited  unfairly declined his home  insurance  claim for 
storm damage. Rainwater  was entering his property  through  multiple  points.
background
Rainwater was entering Mr Ks porch, main bedroom, and downstairs  extension.  He accepts  
theres a long term issue with his porch,  but hes unhappy esures surveyor also declined the 
other rooms.
The surveyor took photos of the damage  and damp readings  and he provided the following 
observations in his report:
-Water  was entering the extension via a skylight. The surveyor noted  that the woodwork 
around the skylight had deteriorated and blackened, and water had dripped onto the 
wooden floor below causing it to stain and start to lift. He said the damage was 
consistent with long-term  water ingress.
-Water  was also entering  the extension through the roof and running down a wall. The 
surveyor noted deteriorated mortar  and brickwork on the extension roof, and said this 
was consistent  with the internal damage. He noted there was evidence of long term 
damage coming through blistered paintwork, and signs this had been painted  over.
-The surveyor noted extensive damage on the main roof above the bedroom  as well as 
old scaffold boards left in the gully. He concluded the internal damage  to the bedroom 
had occurred over a period of time, and was consistent with the issues  on the roof.
Mr K referred a complaint to our service, which was considered  by one of our investigators. 
Based on the surveyors report, she thought the damage had occurred  gradually  over time, 
rather than being  caused by a one-off storm event. So she thought  esure had declined the 
claim fairly. Because Mr K disagreed, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
Mr K has made the following points:
-The skylight was watertight for twenty  years, and remains  so. He couldnt know rainwater 
would enter all of a sudden or done  anything to prevent it. In terms of the black  marks on 
the skylight frame, it has natural black knots  incorporated in the wood. The wooden floor 
below is also not lifting, its just uneven  and the water mark is from the storm. 
-Theres only two white patch marks on the wall in the extension, theres no other damage 
elsewhere. New lead flashing was installed with cement finishing a few years ago when 
some needed repairs  were noticed. There  are no other  repairs  needed. 
-A possible explanation is that water entered the extension when the guttering couldnt 
handle the heavy rain. 
-His roofer has told him it wasnt  the loose or broken tiles on the main roof that caused  
rainwater to enter his bedroom, as there was further protection  underneath.  However,  
heavy rainfall caused  water to collect in the gully and a few small cracks  then allowed 
water to ingress. The scaffold boards had been in the gully for six years,  so these 
couldnt have  caused the recent  issue.
Ref: DRN60491452-There hasnt previously been  any water leaking into his bedroom.  He says theres no 
evidence of damp or black marks on the wall, and the room  is in good decorative 
condition. 
-There hasnt been any further damage following subsequent heavy downpours. He had 
kept his property reasonably well-maintained, and carried out repairs  when issues  were  
known.
-Mr K also provided his own report from a contractor, which was written about  six months  
after the claim. It noted the water leaking into the property was a recent  problem, and   
Mr K couldnt have known about the issues. It highlighted a few broken tiles as a 
possible cause for rainwater ingress  during  heavy downpours. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
As explained by our investigator, there  are three  conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage  should  succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed  Mr Ks complaint and all the available evidence  with these three 
questions in mind.
The policy terms define a storm  as: A violent gale force  10 on the Beaufort scale  reaching 
wind speeds of 55mph  or above  and/or  25mm  or more of rainfall in any 24-hour period 
I have checked  the weather records for the date Mr K says the damage happened   and the 
maximum wind speed was 16mph, whilst  16.2mm was the maximum rainfall over a twenty 
four hour period.  So the policys storm criteria  werent met. This data was taken from a 
weather station a mile away from Mr Ks home.  
I have also checked  the four weeks before, and the highest wind speed was recorded about 
four weeks  earlier, at 40mph  which isnt high enough to satisfy  the policy terms, and nor 
does this service generally consider that level of speed to be storm force  winds. 
In respect of rainfall,  24mm fell in twenty four hours, three days  before  Mr K says the water  
entered his home. This is still below the policy criteria, but on that same  day 14.2mm  fell in 
an hour; and this service  generally considers that amount to be high over a short period of 
time. In addition, esure doesnt dispute that there were storm levels  of rainfall around the 
date in question, and Mr K has provided  photos  of localised flooding. So although there  
werent storm force winds, I accept  there  was sufficient  rainfall  to be considered storm 
conditions. 
Ref: DRN60491453However, having said all that, Im not persuaded those conditions were  the main  cause  of 
the damage. Ill explain why.
Mr K doesnt  believe maintenance issues were the cause  of the water ingress, but rather the 
amount of rainfall  simply overwhelmed otherwise watertight parts  of his property. But Im not 
persuaded by this argument. In my view, the surveyors  photos and damp readings support 
his conclusions that the damage was caused over time by ongoing problems. 
Its difficult to tell from the photos whether  the wooden floor is lifting,  but in my opinion  the 
damp reading indicates a long term issue  and the skylight frame  also has black  staining  
which indicates the same. This black mark is distinctly different from the wood knots Mr K 
refers to. Im also persuaded by what the surveyor has said about the internal wall in the 
extension  the photos and damp  readings  dont indicate the damage  was caused by a 
single event, and previous  damage appears to have been painted over.
In terms of the bedroom, its evident from the photos that there  were  a number of issues with 
the roof  theres  debris in the gully and a section of tiles had slipped  from one area. Im not 
persuaded by what Mr K says in terms of the protection under the slipped tiles. I consider it 
more likely the area would have been vulnerable to water ingress  and Mr Ks own report  
supports the broken tiles could have been  the problem. In any event, Mr K says the water 
entered through small  cracks in the gully and if so, I consider it likely these cracks would 
have allowed water to enter over a period of time  even if he hadnt  seen water running 
down the walls every  time it rained. In my view, theres also sign of some staining  in the 
bedroom, accompanied by some high damp readings. 
So although  I do accept  that water damage is typical of rainwater entering a property, Im not 
persuaded the storm conditions around  the reported  date of loss were the main cause of the 
water damage to Mr Ks home. On balance,  Im more persuaded that this internal  damage 
occurred gradually  over a period of time  and the main cause was maintenance related 
issues on the outside of his property.  
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6049145