K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that she was given poor advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC about her 
mortgage. She says she lost money and her home,  and her health was affected. Shes now 
living in a caravan  as shes  unable to rent a property due to the court  proceedings on her 
record.
background
Mrs D took out a 10-year  capital  repayment  mortgage of about £60,000 with Barclays in 
2003. She had financial  difficulties and the account  fell into arrears. The account  was 
switched to interest only payments in 2007. 
In 2013 the mortgage  term expired and Mrs D was unable to repay the balance. She 
continued to make monthly payments, although no agreement was in place. 
Barclays started court proceedings as it says it was unable to contact  Mrs D to discuss a 
repayment plan.  An arrangement was agreed in 2015 for Mrs D to pay £1,088 per month, 
over an extended term. Unfortunately, Mrs D didnt  maintain payments, and Barclays was 
paying the ground rent on her behalf. Barclays restarted legal proceedings and the court  
granted it a possession  order.  Mrs D sold the property  and repaid the mortgage in November 
2017.
Mrs D complains that:
Barclays didnt give her the option  to extend the term in 2013, when she met with a 
mortgage adviser.
Her property was sold for less than the market value.
Solicitors costs were  added to the mortgage balance, despite  a hearing being  
adjourned, and she also incurred costs  for estate  agents, moving fees and the housing 
associations advisers.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays 
hadnt acted unreasonably or unfairly when dealing with Mrs Ds mortgage  account.
Mrs D didnt agree, and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Barclays didnt give Mrs D the option  to extend the term in 2013,  when  she met with a 
mortgage adviser.
In late 2013 Mrs Ds mortgage balance was about £22,000 and the balance  of her mortgage 
current account (MCA) was about £28,000. The term of the mortgage  expired in December 
Ref: DRN660826722013. She says she was told shed be given time to sell the property, but wasnt offered a 
term extension to give her time to repay  the capital balance.
Mrs D spoke to Barclays  mortgage  adviser  in December 2013. Barclays internal  notes  say 
Mrs D said she would  put her house on the market at the end of the year,  as she wasnt  able 
to repay  the mortgage balance. She intended to move in with her son. 
Mrs D was in a difficult position. Shed been making  interest only payments, so she wasnt  
repaying the capital  balance.  Mrs D wanted to remain in her property, but she also needed to 
find a way to repay the capital balance. Barclays policy  is that (if agreed) term extensions  
are for a maximum  of five years. But to repay the capital within this time would have meant a 
significant increase  in the amount Mrs D paid each month. The evidence  suggests Mrs D 
had passed normal  retirement age by 2013: I dont know  if she tried to re-finance  with a new 
mortgage, but I can appreciate this might not have been an option for her.
The mortgage term was extended in February 2015  for about  4 years, with a payment 
arrangement in place.  Unfortunately,  Mrs D didnt maintain payments, which she says 
werent affordable.  She was also behind with ground rent, which Barclays paid on her behalf. 
This was added to the mortgage  balance.
I dont think, based on the evidence, it was unfair that Barclays didnt offer a term extension 
to Mrs D in 2013. Also,  I dont think the outcome would have been different if it had. When  
an extension and payment arrangement was agreed,  Mrs D couldnt maintain payments. 
Mrs Ds property was sold for less than the market value.
Barclays applied to court and was granted a possession order  in February 2017. Mrs D put 
her house  on the market  and sold the property  later that year.
Mrs Ds property was on the market in February  2017 and she sold the property  in 
November 2017.  The mortgage term had expired some years  before, and shed  told 
Barclays in 2013  she intended to sell the property. I understand  Mrs D felt under pressure to 
sell the property to avoid it being  taken  into possession. But I think Barclays allowed Mrs D 
reasonable time to sell the property herself. I cant fairly say that Barclays  is responsible for 
the amount Mrs D agreed to sell her property for. 
Solicitors costs were  added to the mortgage balance, despite  a hearing being  adjourned, 
and Mrs D also incurred costs for estate agents,  moving fees and the housing associations  
legal costs.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ds mortgage allow Barclays  to add costs  to the mortgage 
balance. This includes  legal costs. Barclays solicitors worked  on the account and Barclays 
provided copies  of the solicitors invoices. I think it was reasonable for Barclays  to pay the 
invoices and add the cost to the mortgage balance. 
Court hearings are sometimes adjourned. Here,  a hearing was adjourned to allow Mrs D 
time to provide  information to Barclays about her financial  circumstances to see if agreement  
could be reached  for a term extension.  A later hearing was adjourned so that Mrs D could 
provide evidence about a previous  hearing.  The solicitors did work on the account  before the 
hearings. I dont think the fact that the hearings  were  adjourned makes it unfair for Barclays  
to pay the solicitors invoices, or to add the cost to the mortgage  balance.
Ref: DRN66082673I dont think its fair to say that Barclays is responsible for other costs, such as estate agents 
and other  third parties  appointed  by Mrs D to help with the sale of her property and her 
house move.  And I dont think Barclays is responsible for any costs or charges imposed by 
the housing association.
Mrs D says the adverse  information on her credit file has made it difficult to rent a property. 
Im sorry  for the difficult time Mrs D has had and the circumstances she describes.  But 
Barclays has to record accurate and up to date information with the credit reference  
agencies. Unless I have  evidence that information is incorrect, I cant reasonably ask 
Barclays to remove it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6608267