K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
February 2005. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the MPPI.
Mr R was sold a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections, 
namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr R has complained about the MPPI  cover  so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
Mr R says that he didnt  know  he had MPPI and it was worked into the price  of the TMPP 
without his knowledge. But I think that its likely that the MPPI  was presented as an optional  
and separate  product, and that Mr R chose to take it out.
BoS isnt able to provide all the paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. But it has been  able to tell us a lot about its sales process  at the time, 
and provide copies of the type of paperwork Mr R is likely to have completed.
BoS has also provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr R before his mortgage  started.  
This letter thanks him for choosing to take out MPPI   and that hes been accepted for cover. 
It also includes a breakdown of what the TMPP will cover and the payments that he will need 
to make for it each  month. And once the policy had started, Mr R was sent another letter 
which included his policy schedule,  and gave his cancellation rights. Had he not known  hed 
taken MPPI, I think he wouldve questioned  these  documents at the time.
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented 
as optional, although I can understand why Mr R may not remember this as it was so long 
ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr R so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr R has referred  to his employee benefits and says they were significant  so he wouldnt 
need the MPPI. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr R was off work due to 
accident or sickness.  And it wouldve paid for up to 12 months if he was made  redundant. 
This wouldve allowed  him to use any employee benefits to cover other everyday living  
expenses. Mr R also says he had some savings he wouldve  used if he needed to. But the 
MPPI wouldve helped  keep his savings intact.
Ref: DRN66825872Looking at Mr Rs circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the MPPI cover.
Mr R was taking on a significant and long term financial commitment,  which was secured on 
his home.  So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve  been serious for 
him. And I think having the security  that his repayments wouldve been made if he was 
unable to work wouldve been  important  to him.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr R about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put him off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, but these points dont change my decision  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr R, he clearly feels strongly about his complaint.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr R some  of the commission he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Rs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission 
Mr R paid for the MPPI  he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6682587