K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them Gold and 
Platinum packaged  bank accounts.  
background
I think it would be useful  for me to start by setting out Mr and Mrs Fs account history.          
Mr and Mrs Fs account was:
opened in October  1973;
switched to a fee paying Gold packaged bank account by August  2001 at the latest; 
switched back to a free account in August 2005;
switched to a fee paying Platinum packaged  account in April 2011;
switched back to a free account in December  2014.
Part of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint was that Mrs F had duplicate  cover when Mr and Mrs F 
held the Gold  account as she also had a Select  account. Lloyds agreed that Mrs F did have 
duplicate cover for a period of time and it agreed to refund  some  of the fees that Mrs F paid 
for this account as a result. Lloyds also agreed  that it mis-sold  the Platinum account  to        
Mr and Mrs F. And it offered the difference in fees between the cheaper Gold  account and 
the Premier account  in an attempt to put things right. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and she thought  that 
Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Mr and Mrs F 
didnt accept this - they think Lloyds should  pay back all the account  fees.  Mr and Mrs F 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the case and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I think  that what Lloyds 
has already done  to put things right is fair. So Im not going  to ask it to pay Mr and Mrs F any 
more money and Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
why I think that Mr and Mrs F were given a clear choice to take all of their packaged 
accounts
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs F were given a clear choice in taking the 
respective packaged  accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters 
are in dispute  such as here - I have to make my decision based on what  I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. 
To decide what I think more likely than not happened, Ive considered  everything Ive been 
told together with everything Ive been provided  with and see how this fits with what  I do 
know. In other words, what lve done here is decided what I think  is more likely than not to 
have happened  having weighed up what both Mr and Mrs F and Lloyds have  been  able to 
provide me with.  
Ref: DRN63436922  
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Fs joint account  was opened as a fee 
free one. I say that because even though Lloyds earliest records relating to this account  only 
go back to August 2001 and they show Mr and Mrs F already had a Gold  account by this 
stage, Lloyds didnt  offer the Gold account  (or any other packaged ones)  until the early 
1990s. Mr and Mrs Fs joint account was initially opened in the 1970s. 
So I think it is very likely  and at least more likely than not  that Mr and Mrs Fs account 
mustve been opened  as a standard account given  packaged  ones werent available at the 
time. As this is the case, I think  that Mr and Mrs F wouldve  known at the point they moved to 
the Gold account that they could have a free account and that they couldve stayed on it if 
thats what they really  wanted. 
Taking everything Ive seen together, I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs F were 
given a clear choice on taking the respective accounts and agreed to them. And I dont think  
that it would  be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case for me to ask Lloyds 
to refund all the fees Mr and Mrs F paid on the basis that they were misled  into thinking  that 
they could only have a fee paying  account.  
As Ive found that Mr and Mrs F more likely than not agreed to the respective account 
changes, what  I now need to do is decide whether the Gold  account  was mis-sold and 
whether what Lloyds has done  to put things right for the Platinum account  is fair. 
the sale of the Gold account 
Lloyds has suggested  that the Gold account  was recommended  to Mr and Mrs F. And        
Mr and Mrs F also say that Lloyds recommended the account to them in around  2000/2001.  
So Im prepared to accept that this is the case.  This means  that Lloyds had to make  a fair 
recommendation, by taking adequate  steps to ensure that the selected account  was a 
reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time. 
Its important to note that the account was more likely than not sold to Mr and Mrs F not too 
long after it was introduced. And at this time it was usual practice for the monthly fee to have 
been waived for a period  of time.  So I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F are 
unlikely to have  paid any account fees for an introductory  period, especially as they were 
employees at the time of the sale.
In any event, and notwithstanding the fact that Mr and Mrs F are unlikely to have been 
charged the account fee, at least in the initial stages, the main benefit  insurance thats likely 
to have been included on the Gold account when it was more  likely than not sold  in 
2000/2001 was travel insurance. The information  Mr and Mrs F have provided suggests  that 
they travelled  at least once a year. So I think its fair to say they had a need  for the travel 
insurance thats likely to have been  included on the account. 
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs F have said that they already had travel insurance elsewhere.  But 
their interaction with the travel provider suggests that its more likely that they were relying 
on the cover  provided  on the account.  In particular I note that Mr and Mrs F were United 
Kingdom (UK) residents,  were  within the age limit for the policy and say they were 
registered with a UK doctor. So Ive seen  no obvious  reason  why they wouldnt have been 
able to make  a successful  claim on the policy if theyd needed to (Ill comment on what  
theyve said about  the conditions they already had further on in this decision). 
Ref: DRN63436923The Gold  account  also came with an interest and fee free overdraft of £100. Mr and Mrs Fs 
earliest statements  show that this is something  that they occasionally  used  and appear  to 
have benefitted  from too. So everything Ive seen suggests that Mr and Mrs F had a need for 
and they are likely  to have  used the main benefits  included on the Gold  account. 
Ive seen what Mr and Mrs F have said about  Mrs F having duplicate cover  as a result of 
also having the Select account. But Lloyds has already refunded  the Select fees for the 
period Mrs F had duplicate cover  - from when breakdown  cover  was added  in March 2014.  
So Im satisfied that Lloyds has already corrected any duplication in cover caused  by its 
recommendation.
Having carefully considered everything  and while I accept that theres a possibility  it wasnt,  
on balance, I think its more likely than not that the Gold account was a reasonable fit for    
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it was sold. And this means that I dont think that 
Lloyds recommending the Gold  packaged  bank account to Mr and Mrs F was unfair. 
why I think what Lloyds  has done to put things right in terms of Mr and Mrs Fs Platinum 
account is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this case
All parties  agree that the Platinum account  was recommended and Ive already explained 
what this meant in terms of Lloyds  obligations at the time of the sale. In any event, Lloyds 
has already accepted that it made an unfair  recommendation and it has offered the 
difference in fees between the cheaper Gold account and the Platinum account in an attempt 
to put things right. So I dont need to look at the sale of the Platinum account itself and I only 
need to think about whether what Lloyds has done  to put things right for Mr and Mrs F is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
Lloyds has refunded the difference in fees between  the Gold  and Platinum accounts 
because it says that Mr and Mrs F had a need for travel insurance,  they relied on it, and the 
Gold account was the cheapest one in Lloyds  range  that provided  the level of cover            
Mr and Mrs F needed. It has also referred  to Mr and Mrs F registering a number of handsets 
for the mobile  phone  insurance  as being indicative of them more likely than not having a 
need for and wanting this cover. 
For much  the same  reasons I think that Mr and Mrs F more likely than not had a need for 
travel insurance when they were initially sold the Gold account, I also think they still had a 
need for it when they were sold the Platinum account in 2011. Although Lloyds did have the 
cheaper Silver account at this stage,  which  also included travel insurance (and mobile phone 
insurance), pre-existing medical conditions were completely excluded from cover  on the 
policy included on that account. 
So given what Mr and Mrs F have told us about having medical conditions already, I dont 
think that the Silver account wouldve provided  the level of cover  they say they needed and I 
dont think it would be fair for me to tell Lloyds to pay the difference in fees between  that 
account and the Platinum  account as a result. While Ive thought  about  what Mr and Mrs F 
have said about  only having cheap  mobile  phone handsets,  the sheer number of handsets 
they registered over the period they held the Platinum account  suggests to me that it is more  
likely than not this is cover they were looking to take advantage of. 
Having carefully thought  about the individual circumstances  of this case, I think that Lloyds 
offer to refund the difference in fees between  the Gold and Platinum accounts, plus interest, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And it follows  that I also think that 
Ref: DRN63436924what Lloyds has already done  to put things right for Mr and Mrs F is and fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of their case.  
the limitations on the travel insurance  cover
Mr and Mrs F have  said that they had a number of medical conditions at the time they were  
sold the Gold and Platinum accounts. They say that they werent told that these conditions 
werent covered  and if they had been  they wouldnt have taken out the accounts. Ive 
thought about what Mr and Mrs F and their representative have said.   
The first thing to say is that, unlike on the travel  insurance policy included on the Silver 
account, any conditions  that a consumer  already  had werent completely excluded from 
cover at any stage. The terms and conditions relating to health  conditions that an account  
holder already had have varied  depending on the account that Mr and Mrs F had. Some  of 
the conditions  that Mr and Mrs F have  told us about wouldnt have even been seen as being 
existing conditions given  the length of time Mr and Mrs F had them.  And most of the others 
were on the various  no screen lists for the policies. 
Conditions on the no screen lists were  automatically  covered  without  the need to contact the 
insurer. But all other conditions (that werent  on the lists) needed  to be declared  to the 
insurer. And the insurer would then decide  whether it would cover the condition, request an 
additional premium  to cover the condition, or decline to cover it completely. So Lloyds  wasnt  
in a position to say whether any conditions that Mr and Mrs F had, which werent on the no 
screen list, wouldve  been covered. All it could  do was tell Mr and Mrs F to contact the 
insurer to declare these  conditions.  
Mr F did contact  the insurer in 2014  in order to purchase a trip extension as he and Mrs F 
had booked a holiday for longer than the maximum trip duration.  I accept that I dont know  
what was discussed  at the time of either sale and so I cant  say for sure that Mr and Mrs F 
were told about the need to contact the insurer about any conditions  not on the no screen list 
 although like our adjudicator  I suspect that the wider no screen list on the Platinum 
account, in itself, may have been  the reason for it being recommended to Mr and Mrs F. 
In any event, Mr and Mrs F contacting  travel  insurance provider about a trip extension 
persuades me that its more likely than not Mr F, at the very least, had a decent  
understanding about what was covered. Mr Fs actions also suggest that its more likely than 
not that Mr and Mrs F were  told that theyd need to contact the insurer to discuss  cover for 
certain matters.  
Ive also read a transcript of the phone call, which Mr and Mrs F are aware of. Having done 
so, I can see that Mr F was asked whether he and Mrs F had any conditions  that they were 
taking medication  for, were receiving treatment for, or awaiting a diagnosis  on. In response 
to this question,  the only condition Mr F declared,  at this time,  was a single condition  (of his) 
that was automatically  covered because it was on the no screen list. 
I accept that this call took place  sometime  after both the accounts  were sold and its entirely 
possible that Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances may have changed  over this period of time. But 
this and the fact that most of the conditions weve been told about were  on the no screen list, 
leads me to think that its more likely than not Mr and Mrs F wouldve still taken the 
packaged accounts and called the insurer if Lloyds had told them about the need to declare 
any conditions not on the list.   
Ref: DRN63436925So having  carefully considered everything, including the nature of Mr and Mrs Fs conditions  
and the fact that they couldve claimed for everything else on included on the policy, I think 
that Mr and Mrs F were, on the whole, able to benefit from the travel  insurance during the 
period of time they held the packaged accounts. And as Ive explained, Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not they were  most  likely relying  on the cover too. 
This means  I dont  think that the limitations  regarding existing medical conditions  on the 
travel insurance policies made Lloyds recommendations unfair. And so I dont find that the 
conditions Mr and Mrs F have told us about,  on their own or when taken together, mean that 
the accounts were  mis-sold.
other matters
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Fs representations about  the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 (Plevin) and the 
case of McWilliam v Norton Finance  (UK) Limited (in liquidation) [2015] EWCA Civ 186 
(McWilliam). 
Referring to these  cases, Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds should have disclosed the commission 
payments it received from the insurers in this case and that I should  obtain details of the 
commission payments made  by the underlying insurance providers to Lloyds  and the claims 
ratios. 
I have carefully considered the Mr and Mrs Fs submissions on this point  having done so, I 
dont consider that further evidence is required in order for me to determine what  is fair and 
reasonable in Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I consider there to be considerable differences  
between Mr and Mrs Fs case and the facts of both Plevin and McWilliam .
In broad terms, in Plevin the Supreme  Court  found that the lenders non-disclosure of the 
high commission payments payable out of Mrs Plevins payment protection insurance (PPI) 
premium (71.8%) by the payment  protection insurer to the lender and broker  made             
Mrs Plevins relationship with the lender unfair  because she was kept in ignorance.  
It seems  to me that there are considerable differences between the circumstances 
considered by the Supreme Court  in Plevin (where Mrs Plevin thought her PPI premiums  
were going  to the insurer, but in fact much of the premium was paid by the insurer to the 
lender and broker in commission) and this case (where  Mr and Mrs F paid a monthly  current  
account fee to their bank in return for a package of benefits, many of which  the bank 
provided itself  such as preferential  loan,  savings and overdraft rates,  commission free 
travel money and an exclusive debit  card and some of which were insurance products it 
arranged as part of the package  travel insurance). The structure of the products and the 
underlying arrangements  in Mr and Mrs Fs case are very different to the circumstances in 
Plevin.
On balance, I dont  think that Mr and Mrs F thought the current account fee they were  paying 
was the insurance  premium or that they would  be surprised to learn that that the bank kept 
the majority of the money they paid for the account.  I think this is very different to the 
position of Mrs Plevin  who was kept in ignorance about the arrangements of her PPI 
policy.  
 
I havent considered  whether the provisions of s140A of the Consumer Credit Act apply here. 
But assuming they do, overall, and although  I cannot say for certain, I think  its unlikely a 
Ref: DRN63436926court would think that there was an unfair relationship in the circumstances of this particular 
case.
I have also considered the McWilliam  case  but I dont think its relevant to Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint either. The McWilliam case was about the duties stemming from a brokers 
fiduciary relationship  with its consumer clients. By way of summary, a fiduciary  is someone  
who has undertaken to act for or on behalf of another  person in a particular matter  in 
circumstances which give rise to a relationship of trust and confidence.  
In McWilliam  the court  held that the broker, who had acted as an agent of the consumers, 
owed them a fiduciary duty and therefore  should  have  obtained  the consumers consent for 
commissions it received. I consider the facts of McWilliam to be considerably  different to the 
facts of this complaint  and I havent  seen anything in Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances that 
suggests there was a fiduciary relationship. Whilst I cant say for certain, I consider it unlikely 
that a court  would find there  to be a fiduciary  relationship between  Lloyds and Mr and Mrs F. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think that the amount Lloyds has already  agreed  to pay    
Mr and Mrs F is fair. So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343692