K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that the renewal quote provided by U K Insurance  Limited
(UKI) for their landlord insurance policy was misleading.
background
Mr and Mrs M received a quote  of £567.96  from UKI to renew  their landlord insurance 
policy. This was broken  down as follows:
Renewal premium                                                                            £403.28
Commercial Legal  Expenses premium                                             £103.83
Insurance Premium Tax                                                                     £60.85.
Mr M phoned UKI to renew but said he didnt want the commercial legal expenses cover. 
He expected that the price would reduce by £103.83. But UKI said the premium  would only 
be reduced by £11.78  to £556.18.  Since  there was such a small difference in the premium 
to include commercial legal expenses cover, Mr and Mrs M renewed the policy  on the basis 
of the original quotation.
They complained to UKI. It agreed  that the renewal  quote was unclear. But it said it had to 
set it out in that way to comply with FCA rules. It said the amount quoted for legal expenses 
cover was correct but if a consumer didnt want this cover,  it wouldnt reduce  the premium  
by the full amount quoted  for the additional cover if that would take the premium below its 
minimum premium  level.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy. They thought UKI should have charged them £103.83 less 
for the policy if they didnt take out legal expenses cover.  They cancelled the policy and 
found alternative cover for £483.53 also with UKI. But their new policy  didnt include legal 
insurance cover. UKI agreed that the documents were confusing and said it was looking to 
make the documents clearer.
UKI explained that according to FCA rules  it has to show the cost of optional products such  
as legal expenses. The figure which it quoted  to Mr and Mrs M for legal expenses cover was 
the amount UKI had to pay its provider for this cover.  It said it couldnt  reduce  the premium  
by this amount  because  it sets minimum premiums for its policies and Mr and Mrs Ms 
premium was already  very close to the minimum premium level.
To cover the cost of making  calls to complain UKI offered Mr and Mrs M £10 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
I cant  tell UKI what  price  it should charge Mr and Mrs M for their landlord insurance. Thats 
for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of them  needing to make  a claim 
and its wider commercial requirements. I can only look at whether UKI has treated  Mr and 
Mrs M fairly,  in line with its own internal guidance  and underwriting criteria, and in the same 
way as it would any of its other customers.
When calculating the price, UKI will have taken  account of a number of things. Those include 
the risk its taken on for Mr and Mrs M and all of its other customers. And the total number 
and value of claims it thinks theyre  likely to make  in that year. Itll also factor in its profit 
Ref: DRN61367832requirements and administration costs. So although UKI was paying £103.83 for legal 
expenses cover, it didnt  necessarily mean  that Mr and Mrs M would save  that amount if they 
didnt take out the additional cover. UKI is entitled to discount  the amount it charges 
customers for legal  expenses cover if it wishes to.
I dont think UKI has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. Its up to UKI what the minimum amount 
of profit  is that it wishes to make from each  customer and what administration  costs each 
customers premium  should cover. These  would be applied to all UKIs customers.
UKI has explained that Mr and Mrs M were able to obtain a cheaper  insurance quote from it 
because it was obtained on a different date from the renewal quote. It says ratings  change  
all the time and that leads to a change  in pricing. It also says consumers arent  locked into 
renewal quotes  and if they can get a cheaper  price with it by getting a quote  on a different 
day, its happy for them to accept the lower one instead.
Im glad that Mr and Mrs M found  alternative cover  that cost less. I can understand that the 
renewal process with UKI was rather annoying for Mr and Mrs M but overall  I dont think  its 
a mistake which has had a significant  impact  on them. They  havent lost out financially and 
any inconvenience was relatively small. In the circumstances I dont feel that any additional 
compensation is justified.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I dont feel UKI has treated them  unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Id also like to clarify  that this service doesnt  regulate businesses, so its not part of our remit 
to scrutinise how UKI intends to modify  its quotations in future to make them clearer.
Mr M responded that according to FCA rules UKI has to show the cost of additions  to a 
policy. It also has to provide appropriate information about a policy  in good time before 
renewal. He thinks UKI was in breach of this by quoting different  prices for the components  
of the policy  when he called UKI compared  with its written quote. He thinks UKI should  have 
reduced the premium  by the amount it said it paid for legal expenses cover  if he wasnt 
taking out this cover. He thinks the fact that he was quoted £75 by UKI for a similar policy  
contradicts its claim that it has a minimum price for the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are clear rules contained  in the FCA Handbook about the need for insurers  to provide 
customers with clear, fair and not misleading  information so that they may make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take out an insurance policy. Fundamental to this must be 
the premium to be paid by the consumer on renewal.  The information must be given in a 
way so that it can be easily compared  and in good time before the renewal. I dont think UKI 
has breached this. The information  was given in good time before renewal.  UKI also didnt 
quote different  prices  for renewal in its written quote  and in the telephone call  the price for 
a policy  including  legal expenses cover was the same in both cases.  Its just that the cost of 
the policy without  legal  expenses cover didnt  reduce by the amount shown in the written 
quote as the cost for legal  expenses  cover.  UKI has explained the reason for that was the 
fact that it sets minimum premiums for its policies and Mr and Mrs Ms premium  was already 
very close to the minimum premium level. UKI is entitled to charge the price it needs  to in 
Ref: DRN61367833order to cover the risk presented and make the level of profit its aiming  for. It would treat 
other customers in a similar position the same  way. I dont think thats unfair.  
UKI is entitled to change  its rating  factors in response to its assessment of the risks it covers  
and the market it operates in. Its not unusual for insurers to update those factors on a daily 
basis. In this case that resulted in a lower  premium being quoted to Mr and Mrs M at a later 
date. That doesnt  mean the original quote  was unfairly high. It simply means UKIs 
recalculated the risk as lower in the intervening time since the original quote. Thats 
something an insurer is allowed to do when balancing its need to cover particular risks 
against the desire to be competitive and retain  a customers business. So I dont find it unfair 
that UKI offered Mr and Mrs M a similar  policy at a lower price than its renewal quote.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6136783