K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  blocked two payments he 
tried to make online. And hes unhappy  about  how he was treated when he made a 
complaint about  it. To put things right he wants them to tell him why his payments were 
blocked, and pay him some compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
background
On 24 April 2018 Mr G tried to buy something  online, but his payment was blocked by 
Halifax. The same thing  happened again on 18 September  2018  when he tried buy 
something from the website of a high street retailer.
Both times Mr G contacted Halifax to let them know that he was trying to buy these things 
himself. The second  time it happened  he also complained to them  that they had caused him 
alarm and distress. He said he felt like Halifax were treating  him as a fraudster. And he 
wanted to know  why his payments had been blocked. 
Halifax explained that temporary blocks are applied to accounts  if they think  that there  is 
something suspicious about a payment. They said that in these situations as soon as the 
customer tells them that they made the payment, they remove  the block  and the account can 
be used again.  They explained that this is done  for security reasons to protect customers 
accounts - so they didnt feel theyd done  anything wrong here.
Mr G wasnt happy that Halifax wouldnt give him more details about why they thought his 
payments were suspicious,  or tell him who had decided to block them. And he doesnt feel 
that Halifax dealt  with his complaint fairly. He made  another  complaint to them about the 
customer service  manager he spoke to. But Halifax didnt think  they had done anything  
wrong. So Mr G asked  us to look into it.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that Halifax had done  anything wrong when they blocked  Mr Gs 
payments. They  also explained that our service wasnt able to look in detail at how Halifax  
had handled  his complaint.
Mr G still thinks  that Halifax  treated him unfairly,  so the case has been  passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr G will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking Halifax to give him any more details about why his payments were  blocked. 
And I dont  think it would fair to ask them to pay him compensation. Ill explain  why.
I appreciate it would have been very frustrating  for Mr G when his payments were blocked 
and he had to speak to Halifax about  it. But Halifax have  explained  that they put a temporary 
block on an account if they think a payment looks suspicious. And this is what happened 
here. And as soon  as Mr G told them he was making the payments, they removed the block 
from his account.
Ref: DRN60172832Halifax are allowed to stop payments being  made from an account if they are worried that it 
isnt the customer  who is trying to make  them. This is set out in section 5 of the terms and 
conditions for Mr Gs account. Halifax said that they do this for security reasons to protect  
their customers money. They have shared details with me about the process  of how they do 
this, and why they might  think that a payment looks suspicious. And Im satisfied that both 
times they blocked  Mr Gs payments Halifax were following their process correctly. So I dont 
think that they made an error, or acted in a way they shouldnt  have done, when they 
stopped his payments.
I appreciate Mr G is upset that Halifax havent  told him exactly  why they were worried  about 
his payments. He is particularly annoyed  that his account was blocked  when  he was trying  to 
buy something from a well-known retailer. And I can understand why he would  have found  
this distressing. But I wouldnt expect Halifax to tell him why they had concerns as this is 
sensitive information  that is part of their security measures. So I dont think  its unreasonable  
that they didnt  do so here.
Mr G says he feels Halifax have treated him like a fraudster. But I dont  think they meant  to 
upset him or offend him. When they said that his payments looked suspicious they didnt 
mean that they thought  Mr G was doing anything wrong. They were concerned that 
someone who wasnt him might have  accessed his account details  and could be making  
payments that he didnt  know  about with his money.  So they wanted to check  that it was 
really him who was using  his account.
Mr G isnt happy with how Halifax dealt with his complaint.  Our adjudicator  explained that 
complaint handling isnt something this service  can generally consider. But in looking at 
whats happened here, I havent seen  anything to make me think  that Halifax has treated Mr 
G unfairly.
I know Mr G is upset that Halifax  telephoned  him to talk about  his complaint. But I can see 
that he first complained  to them about the blocked payments over the telephone. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable of them  to try to call him back to talk about  it. When they did he 
asked them not to telephone him again as he finds it difficult to have telephone 
conversations and has some problems  with his hearing. Halifaxs  contact notes dont say 
that they tried to call him again, and I can see that they sent him a letter instead. So I think  
that they treated him fairly and did as he asked.
I also understand Mr G feels Halifax have discriminated against him on the grounds that he 
is disabled. I havent seen any evidence that suggests to me Halifax  discriminated against 
him either when dealing  with his complaint or when blocking his payments. I believe they 
were following their processes correctly.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6017283