K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about an endowment policy he took out with a business  that 
Countrywide Assured  Plc is now responsible for. He is unhappy with the amount he received  
at maturity of the policy and feels  it has been  mis managed and calculated incorrectly.
background
Mr R took out a with profits fixed term full cost endowment assurance plan in 1991. The plan 
provided a guaranteed sum assured at the end of the savings period or upon  death, if this 
occurred earlier. The plan also aimed to pay bonuses but this wasnt guaranteed as the 
bonuses were dependent upon the performance  of the fund into which the policy was 
invested.
The term of the plan was for twenty five years and it had a sum assured of just over £23,000. 
The plan matured  in October 2016  and paid Mr R just over £27,000 which  was made up of 
the sum assured and a bonus of just under  £4,000.
Upon maturity of the policy Mr R complained to Countrywide. He felt:
The policy at maturity  wasnt  what he was expecting.
The policy failed to keep up with inflation  and so must have been managed 
incorrectly.
There were  hidden  charges within the policy which contributed  to the amount paid 
out.
Life cover was included which he was not aware  of.
He also was unhappy that he hadnt  received and explanation of how the pay-out had been  
calculated or why it was so low.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
was of the view the policy  had met its guaranteed settlement  amount. He felt that the 
bonuses which Mr R has relied on so much were clearly explained  as not being guaranteed 
and dependent upon the invested  part of the policy and that this had clearly been explained 
in the documentation of the policy which Mr R still had. He felt this was also clearly noted  in 
the yearly statements which  were sent to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with the assessment.  He remained of the view that the policy  had been  
mismanaged. He also felt that he hadnt been  treated fairly by Countrywide and this Service. 
He felt we hadnt provided  a full explanation of why nothing had gone wrong and why we 
think he has been treated  fairly. Nor have we provided an explanation of why the maturity 
value of the policy was correct. He said he had expected this Service to carry out our own 
calculations to establish a range of fair maturity values.
The investigator considered Mr Rs comments but wasnt persuaded to change  his initial  
outcome. So as no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
Ref: DRN67414332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Turning first to the issue of the bonuses, the point  of sale documentation provided projected 
bonuses calculated using  a range of growth rates  which  were  approved  by the regulator  and 
used throughout  the industry.  The paperwork also states that these bonuses were not 
guaranteed and could  change and fluctuate.  The bonuses  element of the plan was where 
the risk of the policy lay as this part was dependent  upon the performance of the underlying 
fund into which the premium was paid into. This was a with profits fund which  is a suitable 
fund for this type of policy representing the most  suitable level of risk for a policy holder of 
such a plan.
The annual statements that were  also sent to Mr R also confirmed that the bonuses  were not 
guaranteed and would fluctuate on a daily basis. 
So given this I think Mr R should have been  aware that the bonuses and the bonus levels  
were not guaranteed.
Ultimately all the policy had to do was to pay the sum assured.
I appreciate how disappointing  it was to only get back marginally higher than Mr R had paid 
in but this is sometimes how these polices work. Because of the investment element there 
can be no guarantees about this part of the policy. And having kept the policy  in place for so 
long with the policy experiencing market fluctuations that it has over the past 25 years this 
does unfortunately  have  an effect on the performance side of the policy.
But because the only guarantee was the sum assured and this is what  was paid and 
reached by the policy (plus a little but more)  I cant see that Countrywide has done  anything 
wrong.
I know Mr R thinks  the policy has been  mismanaged but I dont have any evidence  that this 
is the case and Ive seen nothing to conclude this is the case.  He has cited the poor 
performance of the fund when compared  to US Equities, Emerging Markets Equities  UK 
Gilts European Equities  Global  Equities Global  Bonds and high street  savings accounts over 
the same  twenty-five  year period. And in light of this comparison  is unhappy  with the 
performance and has noted that the policy didnt even keep a pace with inflation. He 
therefore believes that poor performance equities directly  to poor management.
This isnt however  always the case.  The policy was invested in a with profits fund from the 
outset which  is more  towards the lower end of the risk spectrum. The majority of the funds 
Mr R mentioned have higher levels of risk so the performance of each  cant really be 
compared. Also it would be normal for this type of policy to be placed in a cautious fund 
given the length of time its recommended one keeps these types  of policies. Whether  the 
policy was the right thing  for Mr R and the risk level was suitable for him is something that 
can be considered  as this element of the complaint has been ruled outside of the jurisdiction 
of this Service due to the timescales involved in Mr R bringing his complaint to this Service.
If Mr R wants to question the management  of the fund more  widely  he can approach the 
regulator but he needs to bear in mind that the regulator doesnt  address individual  
Ref: DRN67414333complaints with individual consumers but he could try as it may be something it is looking 
into already.
With regards to the life cover element  of the policy, its worth  Mr R noting  that it is normal for 
life cover to be included in these types of endowment policies because it makes  the policy 
qualifying. This means that when the policy matures the lump  sum pay-out is free from tax 
which obviously benefits the policy holder.
I know Mr R thinks  this Service should carry out calculations of the plan to review  a number 
of maturity values, however regardless  of what he think  the role of this Service  is we are not 
in a positon to carry  out such calculations. These can only really be done by actuaries  
people who are professionals in this line and that can only come from the business paying 
out the maturity  of the policy. I know this is disappointing for Mr R but there is little value in 
this Service doing  something it simply doesnt  have the expertise to do.
Mr R has said that his understanding  of the policy was that the bonuses shown on the 
annual statements were  on the low side and that comparatively better bonuses would only 
be known at maturity.  He says he therefore  had an expectation of a much higher maturity 
value than had been shown by the statements. While I appreciate this I have to say this is 
purely down to Mr Rs understanding of the policy and his own interpretation  of the 
information he was given. I cant see that his interpretation of the information was advised to 
him in any way by Countrywide so I have to conclude that Mr R came  to this way of 
interpreting the information on his own. I am not sure why he would have thought  the 
bonuses indicated on the statement would differ vastly from whatever could be applied  at 
maturity but this hasnt  been stated anywhere.  So I think Mr Rs expectations of the bonuses  
and his disappointment at the maturity bonuses comes down  to the way he understood the 
policy. Because, as I have  already  said, I think the policy was administered correctly  by 
Countrywide.
With regards to the issue of hidden charges, Mr R doesnt think the investigator  looked hard 
enough to find any hidden charges. Mr R believes there are hidden  charges because in 2016 
his financial adviser  requested  and received details from Countrywide of how the policy had 
grown over the period.  Countrywide said in this period  the average growth was 5.53%  per 
annum. Mr R has calculated this and said this should have given him around £45,000 at 
maturity. However he only received just over £27,000 which  he says equates to a growth 
rate of 2.06% per annum. So he has question why the shortfall.
I have asked Countrywide about  this and I am satisfied  with its explanation. It has said that 
the growth rate put forward  by Mr R looks  to be calculated on the entire premium that he has 
paid rather than taking  account of the fact only a part of that premium  was invested as the 
other part went to provide  the life cover  benefit.
It also provided further details about  its growth  rate calculations on the proportion of the 
premium that was invested.  Mr R has had sight of this, at my request so there  is little point in 
me repeating that information here. It is specific to his type of policy  and also could be 
deemed to be commercially  sensitive. However, I am satisfied with the explanation and the 
details provided  by Countrywide.  But this is in the context of what I have said earlier  in this 
decision about this Service not having the specific actuarial expertise to delve into minutiae 
of these specific calculations.
I know Mr R has said that he didnt know some  of the premium  was going towards providing 
life cover.  But having seen the point of sale documentation and the fact that it clearly  set out 
Ref: DRN67414334life cover was part of the policy and he marked the documents accepting  this I think  he 
would have known  at the point of taking the policy what  the policy actually provided and that 
life cover was involved. I also appreciate that he feels the amount going towards providing 
the life cover benefit is excessive but I cant comment  on that given  this is a commercial  
decision that this Service wouldnt  have any influence  over.  Furthermore, even though  Mr R 
said his understanding was that the full premium was being  invested again as already 
mentioned above  I cant address that issue because this concerns  the sale of the policy  and 
how this was communicated  to him by the seller  and this someone I cant look at. However  
the documentation provided  at the time of the sale makes  these  details clear.
I know Mr R will remain unhappy with my findings.  Its disappointing this will be the case. But 
I dont think this Service has the power to satisfy Mr R or quell his concerns. Within what  
I can do and what I can consider from what I have seen I am satisfied the policy has been 
managed properly and that all calculations  involved  in the final maturity  sum are correct.  
I think much  of Mr Rs concerns come  down to his understanding  of what  the policy  provided  
and how it worked, as mentioned above.  And his interpretation and assumptions are not 
something Countrywide can be held responsible for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6741433