K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about  the advice they received from their broker,  A Manning UK 
Limited (trading as ManningUK), in relation to the annual renewals of their business 
partnerships liability insurance cover.
background
In 2002, Mr and Mrs K took out a liability insurance  policy for their business, in which both 
Mr and Mrs K are partners. The policy was annually renewable and was sold and arranged 
each year by ManningUK. 
In 2018, following receipt of a cheaper  quote  from another broker (Broker A), Mr and Mrs K 
complained to ManningUK. As part of their complaint, they said they didnt think  the cover 
recommended to them over the years was suitable,  as they believe they were  over-insured. 
They also didnt think ManningUK had done enough to source competitively-priced polices,  
as they believe  cheaper policies were  available on the open  market.
In response to their complaint, ManningUK said it didnt think  it had done anything wrong. It 
explained that each year, the policy was renewed in accordance with company procedure.  It 
also said the cost of the policy was determined by the insurer and was based  on the 
estimated annual turnover and labour costs  of Mr and Mrs Ks business.
Unhappy with ManningUKs response, Mr and Mrs K asked our service  for an independent 
review of their complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that she didnt think 
Manning UK had done anything wrong.
As Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the outcome of our investigators  assessment, the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I dont think  
ManningUK has acted  unfairly its dealings with Mr and Mrs K. Ill explain why Ive reached  
the outcome I have.
ManningUK recommended the cover  to Mr and Mrs K each year,  so it had to make sure it 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ks business  needs.  It also had to give Mr and Mrs K clear  
information at the point  of each renewal.
As part of my investigation  into Mr and Mrs K complaint, I had a look at the information  
provided by ManningUK. This included details of their brokering practices and the process  
they say they followed  at the point of each renewal. I also had a look copies of some of the 
paperwork completed and issued by ManningUK around the time of each renewal. Based on 
what Ive seen, ManningUK and Mr and Mrs K appear to have had an arrangement in place, 
whereby ManningUK would source suitable  annual liability  insurance  cover for 
Mr and Mrs Ks business, based on quotes  provided by its panel of insurers.
Ref: DRN63692342While the documentation  doesnt date back to some of the earlier  years, it does cover the 
period from early 2009 onwards  which accounts for over half the time Mr and Mrs K 
arranged their policy through  ManningUK. Having reviewed the available information, I can 
see that ManningUK  followed  a similar process  over the years when it came to the renewals 
 it would ask Mr and Mrs K for information  about  the level of cover  required and source  a 
policy based on the available information.  While  I havent seen the paperwork for some of 
the earlier years, I dont  think it would be unreasonable to assume that a similar process 
would have been followed pre-2009. So, Ive based  my findings  on the assumption that a 
relatively similar renewal process was followed over the years.
I can see that each  year a representative from ManningUK  would  write  to Mr and Mrs K and 
ask them  to complete  and return  an annual  review form. This form requested details of the 
estimated turnover and labour costs of Mr and Mrs Ks business as well as the level of cover 
required. 
For some  of the years, I can see Mr and Mrs K would complete the annual review  form and 
return it to ManningUK, whereas other years Mr and Mrs K would ask ManningUK to rely on 
the previous years information. There were also at least  two occasions where Mr and Mrs K 
didnt respond  and the information from the previous  year was carried  forward. ManningUK 
would then use the available information  to source a policy from either  the existing insurer  or 
attempt to obtain quotes from other insurers on its panel. 
From the paperwork provided, Ive noted  that Mr and Mrs Ks cover  was underwritten  by 
multiple insurers over the years. Ive also noted there appear to have been a number of 
insurers who either declined to offer any cover or werent able to offer the level of cover  
required by Mr and Mrs Ks business. So, I do think its more likely than not that the type of 
cover along  with the level of cover required, did limit ManningUKs attempts to source a 
variety of suitable policies each year. While that may have been  the case, ManningUK did 
successfully obtain  annual quotes from at least one insurer, which it would send  to 
Mr and Mrs K as part of the renewal  process.
Looking at the available renewal notices  sent over the years, I can see that these set out 
ManningUKs recommendations along  with the cost of the policy and details of the benefits  
including the level of benefit  provided,  the cost set by the insurer and the broker fee. Im 
satisfied that any recommendations made  were  based on Mr and Mrs Ks business  needs, 
and information  about the cover would have been  sent to Mr and Mrs K at the point of each 
renewal.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K feel they may have been over-insured  for some of the 
time they held their policy, I cannot ignore that the cover they were sold was for the most 
part, determined by Mr and Mrs Ks own forecast of the level of cover they required. I also 
cannot ignore  that Mr and Mrs K had the opportunity to question the level of cover offered by 
the policy each  year, had they thought something was not quite right. 
Ill now turn my attention to Mr and Mrs Ks concerns  about  the price  they paid for their cover 
and whether there may have been cheaper products  available  on the market. 
Ref: DRN63692343I believe Mr and Mrs Ks concerns about  the price they paid each year, was prompted by a 
cheaper quote obtained from Broker  A in 2018.  Theyve explained to our service that in early 
2018, they were  sent a quote  for a similar policy with the same insurer  for around £2,000 
less than what they were  paying for the policy theyd arranged  through  with ManningUK. 
This, on the face-of-it,  doesnt feel fair or seem  right. So, Ive had a look at the available 
information to see whats happened.
ManningUK has provided our service with some information from the insurer   including its 
explanation as to why Mr and Mrs K werent  offered the alternative policy.  Based on what  
Ive seen, it appears as though the insurer issued the quote  to Broker A in error. In its 
submissions, the insurer has explained  that the quote issued to Broker As included  a new 
customer discount and had different inner  limits  and conditions. It said these factors had an 
impact on the overall cost of the policy.
As part of their investigation into Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, ManningUK  asked  the insurer  to 
explain why Mr and Mrs K werent  quoted on the available alternative product. In its 
response, the insurer explained that the alternative policy wouldnt have been suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ks business  needs for a number of years  as it wouldnt  have  provided  the 
level of cover required. It wasnt, however, able to provide  an explanation as to why it never 
informed ManningUK about the alternative  policy in the years  the product may have been  
suitable.
As a broker,  ManningUK doesnt provide  the insurance or set the price. It will approach a 
panel of insurers  to let them know the type and level of cover  its customers need to see what 
policy (if any), at what price, they are prepared to offer.  And I can see thats what  it did when 
Mr and Mrs Ks policy came up for renewal  each year.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that ManningUK  wasnt aware of the alternative 
product as the insurer hadnt told it about  it. So, it couldnt  recommend the alternative  policy  
to Mr and Mrs K. 
While I understand that Mr and Mrs K have raised concerns about cheaper policies being 
available elsewhere  on the market, I dont  think this would have made a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. In this case,  Mr and Mrs K had an arrangement with ManningUK 
to source suitable  cover  from its panel of insurers  and this is what it appears to have  done  
at the point of each  renewal.  
I think its also worth mentioning that we do need to be careful  when comparing the cost of 
different policies offered on the open  market. Insurance policies provided  by different 
insurers may involve different benefits and/or levels of benefits and the level of service 
offered to customers may also be different. In addition to this, the cost between insurers can 
be different based  on each insurers  perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure. 
Based on what Ive said above  and taking everything into account, I dont think ManningUK  
did anything wrong  when it recommended the cover  to Mr and Mrs K over the years.  While  I 
cant be sure that ManningUK gave Mr and Mrs K all the information it needed to in relation 
to the cover  over the years, for the reasons stated above Im not persuaded that this would 
have made  a difference to Mr and Mrs Ks decision to accept the renewal notice each year.  
As a result, I dont think ManningUK has acted unfairly in dealings  with Mr and Mrs K. I 
therefore dont  recommend  that it refund them any of the premiums  they paid for their policy. 
Ref: DRN63692344my final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6369234