K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain an appointed representative of Quilter  Mortgage Planning  Limited 
gave them unsuitable advice to re-mortgage their home on an interest-only basis to invest  in 
Harlequin  a high risk overseas property  investment. The Harlequin  properties they 
purchased were never completed and they were unable to repay  the interest-only mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs L say they were introduced to Harlequin and given mortgage advice by an 
adviser from a business that was an appointed representative of two businesses  one of 
which was Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited (formally Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Limited).  
This complaint has been made  against Quilter Mortgage Planning  Limited (Quilter), so Ive 
only considered  what that business is responsible  for.
Mr and Mrs L say the adviser  was recommended  to them by a friend and they first met with 
him on 11 June 2009. At this point they had had an interest-only mortgage on their home 
with an outstanding balance of £78,000.  Theyd  purchased an endowment policy in 1994 to 
cover that amount.  The adviser completed  a fact find with them. This recorded that they 
were looking  to re-mortgage to raise  capital to purchase a new property and were looking to 
borrow £200,000  over five years  on an interest-only basis. In the notes  section of the fact 
find the adviser wrote:
Clients require a flexible  arrangement with funds available to invest in additional
properties. An offset is required so that any income and lump sum from these 
investments can be paid into the linked current account. An interest only mortgage 
was chosen as this will be repaid  from existing  endowments and from the sale of the 
property, although  this is not guaranteed  to repay the loan in full.
Mr and Mrs L say the adviser  advised  them they could borrow  additional funds on their 
mortgage in order  to invest in Harlequin  property and thered  be no risk as the rental return 
from the property would cover the mortgage repayment in full. 
There were several meetings with the adviser  and a sales pitch from a Harlequin 
representative. Following  these, Mr and Mrs L decided to invest in four Harlequin properties.  
They say the intention was that two would be paid for with money from the mortgage and 
two with Mr Ls pension  funds. On 17 June 2009, they paid £4,000  as the reservation  fees 
(£1,000 each). 
On 23 June 2009 Mr and Mrs L surrendered their endowment policy early for £45,802.86.  
They say they did this because the adviser  had told them  the mortgage would be paid off by 
the Harlequin investments.
They received a Record of Suitability letter from the adviser on 29 June 2009 suggesting 
an interest-only, offset tracker mortgage for £198,999  over five years. Under  the heading 
Recommended Product it said I have recommended that you take out a 3.49% Tracker 
mortgage.  And in the Loan Purpose box it said Remortgage  Buy Other Property . On 
the same  day they signed a contract  in relation to one of the properties  (Property 1). This 
contract was signed by Harlequin Properties on 1 July 2009.
Ref: DRN67612262The mortgage application showed an endowment was in place that was due to mature on 
1 July 2014. This was stated to have  a target amount of £225,000 accrued through a 
monthly premium of £150. And it said this would be the repayment  vehicle for the mortgage.
A mortgage offer was received on 3 July 2009. This set out the offer of £198,000 on an 
interest-only basis. A £999 mortgage  arrangement fee was payable  and the property was 
valued at £330,000. The product was an offset tracker, with monthly  payments  of £578.76. 
Mr L was also introduced to another business  for pension advice around this time.
On 10 July 2009, Mr L and his wife signed  a contract  to buy another Harlequin property 
(Property 2). This contract was signed by Harlequin Properties on 20 August 2009. In the 
meantime, theyd paid the £30,500 deposit  for Property 1 on 16 July 2009 using their 
savings  although I understand they reimbursed their savings when they received  the 
mortgage money. 
On 6 August  2009, Mr L signed  another two contracts in respect of Harlequin  properties  
(Properties 3 and 4). These were the two purchases  that were  going to be funded using  
Mr Ls pensions. 
Confirmation of the mortgage completion  was received on 26 August 2009 and the funds 
were released on 1 September 2009. After redeeming their existing mortgage, Mr and Mrs L 
received £118,204.92. They paid the £30,500 deposit for Property 2 using this money  on 
8 September 2009. As Ive set out above, I understand they also replaced the money theyd 
spent on Property 1 with some of the mortgage  money.
The pension transfers to the SIPP went ahead on 11 September  2009 and deposits were 
paid from the SIPP  for Properties 3 and 4  and the contracts signed  in October  2009.  Ive 
been told that further Harlequin property was purchased  in 2011  Property 5  using the 
remaining money from the mortgage, topped  up by the sale of premium bonds.
The properties were  never completed and in March  2016, Mr and Mrs L complained to 
Quilter. They  said the mortgage advice theyd received was unsuitable. They  said the 
repayment vehicle  was unrealistic; the mortgage  was unaffordable; and they hadnt been  
given enough  information. They also said the adviser had failed to disclose a conflict of 
interest.
Quilter didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the adviser hadnt  had a conflict  of interest  and the 
mortgage advice  given had been suitable  because Mr and Mrs L had been  advised to take it 
on a repayment  basis but went against that advice. It pointed to the fact the mortgage  offer 
had confirmed that Mr and Mrs L would need to make sure there was enough to repay the 
mortgage at the end of the term and said the mortgage had been affordable  as Mr and Mrs L 
had had a repayment vehicle in place in the form of an endowment  policy.  It said the adviser 
wasnt authorised  to comment on the suitability of the endowment policy  or to investigate the 
existence of it. It also said it wasnt responsible  for any investment  advice  the adviser gave 
as he wasnt authorised under the agreement  with it to give investment  advice.
An investigator recommended  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint be upheld  in part. In summary, she 
was satisfied this service could look at the mortgage advice Mr and Mrs L had been given. 
But she felt that mortgage advice could  only be linked to Property 2 and therefore  this was 
the only investment  we could look at. She was satisfied the mortgage advice Mr and Mrs L 
had been given was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN67612263Quilter replied saying the complaint was time barred. The investigator responded saying she 
was satisfied the complaint hadnt  been  made  outside the time limits.  Although she noted  it 
had been made more  than six years after the event complained about, she couldnt see 
anything that persuaded  her Mr and Mrs L knew, or ought to have known, of cause to 
complain more than three years before they did. Quilter didnt provide any further comments.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  replied  with additional  comments that she asked the 
investigator to consider.  Specifically, that:
When the interest-only mortgage ended  Mr and Mrs L had been unable to get an 
extension to it. The plan had been  to repay  it by selling Harlequin property but 
because this wasnt possible, the only way theyd been able to repay  it had been to 
sell their home and downsize.  The interest-only mortgage was never going to be 
affordable if the Harlequin investment failed. The fact they could repay it by selling 
their home didnt make  it affordable.
Although thered  been a mortgage  endowment which could pay off part of the 
mortgage, a mortgage  endowment for £225,000  accrued through a monthly  premium  
of £150 would have taken  over 80 years to accrue  not the five years that was 
available. No evidence had been  required in relation to the endowment and no 
calculations had been done. The mortgage  was therefore unaffordable.
Although the deposit for Property  1 had been paid with cash from Mr and Mrs Ls 
savings, this was replenished  by the mortgage funds when they were released. This 
had always been the plan and Mr and Mrs L had been  encouraged to pay the initial  
deposit before the mortgage  funds  were released. This property should therefore 
also be covered in the compensation.
The investigator was also satisfied that none  of these points changed  her view. The 
complaint has therefore been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings on jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence  thats been  provided. Having  done  so, I agree with the 
investigator that it is a complaint this service  can consider. Ive explained my findings below.
is Quilter responsible for the complaint?
To carry  out regulated activities, a business  needs to be an authorised person (section 19 of 
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)).  We can deal with certain complaints 
against Quilter as its an authorised person. This may include complaints about the acts of its 
appointed representatives.
But this service isnt able to look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we 
need to check,  by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP) and the legislation  from which those rules are derived, whether its one we 
have the power  to look at.
There are a number of jurisdiction tests  that must be met in order  for us to be able to 
consider a complaint. Ive considered the ones that are in dispute here.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
Ref: DRN67612264consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,  
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection  with them .
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect of activities for which  the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility).
And section  39 of FSMA says:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised person) 
(a)is a party  to a contract  with an authorised  person (his principal) which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b)is someone for whose  activities in carrying on the whole or part of that 
business his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition  in relation  to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business  for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility
(3)The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the 
representative in carrying on the business for which he has accepted 
responsibility.
So to decide whether  Quilter is responsible here there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr and Mrs L have  complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary  to regulated activities?
Is Quilter responsible for those acts?
what are the specific acts Mr and Mrs L have complained  about?
Mr and Mrs L have complained about  the mortgage  advice they received. They say they 
were given unsuitable advice to take out a mortgage  in order to invest in Harlequin property.
are those acts regulated  activities  or ancillary  to regulated activities?
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the RAO)  and include advising  on the merits of buying  or selling a particular 
investment which  is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO), and making  
Ref: DRN67612265arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security  or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).
A regulated mortgage contract  is a specified  investment  (article  88 RAO). And theres  no 
dispute that Mr and Mrs L were given  mortgage advice and mortgage arranging took place. 
Im therefore  satisfied that regulated  activities took place. So Ive gone  on to consider  
whether Quilter is responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs L have complained  about.
is Quilter responsible for those acts?
Theres no dispute that the mortgage advice and arranging Mr and Mrs L received was 
provided by an adviser at an appointed  representative of Quilter.  And Im satisfied the 
adviser was holding himself out as acting on behalf  of Quilter when carrying  out those acts.
But Quilter  says it isnt responsible for any investment advice given to Mr and Mrs L because 
the adviser didnt  have  permission to give investment advice under the appointed 
representative agreement. It therefore  says the adviser  didnt have its permission to 
speculate on what the returns  from the Harlequin  investment might be or to comment on its 
suitability.
Ive thought about this carefully,  but Im satisfied I dont  need to make  a finding on whether 
the adviser had permission  to give investment advice. I say this because the complaint 
Mr and Mrs L have made  is about  unsuitable mortgage advice. And although part of that 
complaint is that the repayment vehicle  (including Harlequin) wasnt  suitable, Im satisfied 
principals can still be responsible where the business in question is sufficiently closely 
connected to the part of the appointed representatives business  that was authorised.
The investigator quoted a section of Mr Justice Jacobs judgement from the case of 
Anderson v Sense Network:
The basis  of the decision in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice on regulated
investments, which the AR [appointed representative] was authorised  to give.  The 
case therefore again supports the proposition that in ascertaining  the scope of 
section 39, and the question of the business for which the principal has accepted  
responsibility, it is relevant to consider  the terms of agreement between  the principal 
and the AR. It is implicit in the decision that if the advice on the unregulated 
investments had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR was 
authorised to give, then there would have been no liability under section 39.
I also agree  with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to
take a broad approach  when seeking to identify  the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility".  The fact that there may not be actual  authority  for a 
particular transaction,  for example because of breach  of an obligation not to offer an 
inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise on a related 
transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain  duties needed to be fulfilled before a 
product was offered, does not mean  that the transaction in question  falls outside the 
scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is taken. Equally, the 
approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced  from the terms of the very 
AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has accepted 
responsibility for the business in question.
Ref: DRN67612266As the investigator  explained, the test set out in this judgment is that the principal  is 
responsible when the act or omission  complained about is sufficiently closely connected to 
the activities for which actual authority was given.
Quilter allowed its appointed representative  to give mortgage advice. So I have to consider 
whether what Mr and Mrs L are complaining about  is part of that business  or is sufficiently 
closely connected to it.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that the mortgage and investment advice are 
closely linked. Its clear  that the adviser knew Mr and Mrs L were planning to invest  in 
Harlequin property  using the mortgage money   and in fact, it appears that it was him that 
introduced them to this idea.
Mr and Mrs L were  reliant on the mortgage money to pay the deposit  for Property 2 (£30,500  
which was paid on 8 September 2009). And Im satisfied  that without the mortgage advice to 
increase their borrowing, Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have made that Harlequin  investment. This 
means that Quilter can be held responsible  for the mortgage advice and the linked 
investment into Property 2 under this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L say the whole mortgage was advised  in order  to invest  in Harlequin. But 
although they were  left with a lot of mortgage money  after paying the deposit for Property  2, 
Im satisfied theres only one other property investment  that can arguably be said to have 
been sufficiently  closely connected to the mortgage advice  Property 1. The deposits for 
Properties 3 and 4 were paid with pension  money  and the Property 5 investment was 
approximately two years  later. So Im satisfied Quilter cant  be held responsible for the 
investments into Properties 3, 4 or 5 under this complaint.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  the Property  1 investment was sufficiently  closely  
connected to the mortgage advice. I know Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed  with my 
findings on this point, but I agree. The deposit  for Property 1 (£30,500  on 16 July 2009) was 
paid using Mr and Mrs Ls savings  and it was almost three  months before they were able to 
reimburse their savings account from the mortgage money.
It may have always been their intention that the savings would be replaced  with the 
mortgage money when  it came through. And it may well have been that they decided  how 
many Harlequin properties to buy once they knew how much  theyd be getting from the 
mortgage. But taking  everything into account,  Im satisfied the investment could have been 
made without the mortgage money.  And I note that in their initial complaint they said £30,500 
of the mortgage  money was used to purchase Harlequin property. Im therefore also satisfied 
that Quilter cant be held responsible for the investment into Property 1 under this complaint.
the time limit objection
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
DISP 2. DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service
(2)more than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
Ref: DRN67612267(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  
other record of the complaint having  been received;
unless:
(3)in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas 
as a result of exceptional circumstances.
As set out above, it seems the advice was given in July 2009. And the complaint wasnt 
referred to Quilter until March 2016.  This means  the complaint is outside  the first part of the 
time limit  ie it was made more  than six years after the events complained  about.
The issue  for me to decide is therefore  whether the complaint is also outside the second part 
of the time limit  ie whether it was made more than three years after Mr and Mrs L knew,  or 
ought to have known, they had cause to complain. Because the complaint was made in 
March 2016, the question  becomes whether they knew, or ought  to have known, they had 
cause to complain before  March 2013.
Quilter has referred to the fact they knew  the repayment was reliant  on their endowments 
and Harlequin  investments  when they took out the mortgage. But Im satisfied at that point 
Mr and Mrs L didnt know the Harlequin investments werent going to be enough to repay the 
mortgage. The mortgage ended in 2014 and they say it was only at that point that they 
realised they couldnt  repay it using their original  repayment strategy. Taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied this is reasonable.
Ive considered the fact they stopped receiving payments  from Harlequin  in late 2012.  But 
when the investigator  asked  Mr and Mrs L for their comments on these payments stopping,  
they explained that theyd  requested they stop in order to reduce  the amount they owed. And 
they provided evidence of this. Theres therefore nothing about  the payments from Harlequin  
stopping that makes me think Mr and Mrs L ought reasonably to have known of cause to 
complain more than three years before they complained.
For the reasons  given  above, Im satisfied  this complaint is in this services jurisdiction  in 
relation to the mortgage advice that was given and the deposit that was paid for Property 2. 
Ive therefore  gone  on to consider the merits of that complaint.
my findings on merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Taking everything into account, I dont 
think the mortgage recommendation the adviser made was suitable.
The Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) in place at the relevant time said at 
MCOB 4.7.2R that:
Ref: DRN67612268A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it does not make  a personal 
recommendation to a customer to enter  into a regulated mortgage contract, or to vary 
an existed regulated mortgage  contract,  unless the regulated  mortgage  contract  is, or 
after the variation will be, suitable for that customer
MCOB 4.7.4R went  on to say that:
For the purposes of MCOB 4.7.2R:
(1)a regulated mortgage contract will be suitable  if, having regard to the facts 
disclosed by the customer and other  relevant  facts  about the customer of 
which the firm is or should reasonably be aware, the firm has reasonable 
grounds to conclude that:
(a)the customer can afford to enter into the regulated  mortgage  
contract;
(b)the regulated  mortgage contract  is appropriate to the needs and 
circumstances of the customer;  and
(c)the regulated  mortgage contract  is the most suitable of those that 
the firm has available  to it within  the scope of the service provided 
to the customer
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of the advice. In 
June 2009:
They were both in their late 50s.
Mr L earnt between £33,000 and £55,000  a year (different figures have been 
provided) and Mrs L had no income.
They had an outstanding interest-only  mortgage  on their home with a balance of 
£78,000. Theyd taken  out an endowment policy in 1994 to cover this.
They had no other properties.
They had £30,000 in savings and £10,000 in premium bonds and both had pensions.
The recommendation letter the adviser  sent to Mr and Mrs L said:
A repayment mortgage is recommended,  however you chose interest  only and intend 
to repay  the loan using existing endowments and the sale of investment property, 
although this is not guaranteed  to repay  the mortgage in full.
However, Mr and Mrs L say the adviser advised  them to take out a new interest-only 
mortgage. They say he told them  that the rent and return from the Harlequin property would 
pay it off in full and so a repayment mortgage wasnt discussed.  And they say he told them 
that in these circumstances the endowment policy  was no longer needed and thats why that 
was cashed in in June  2009.
Ref: DRN67612269Although the advice  in the recommendation letter was to take out a repayment  mortgage, 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  this would have been  affordable in Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances. Taking  everything into account,  I think its most likely that they decided to 
take out an interest-only mortgage because they were advised the Harlequin investment 
would allow them to repay it. And Im also satisfied that this is the reason they cashed in 
their endowment policy  particularly given the timing of when they cashed it in.
In the circumstances here, Im satisfied this advice  wasnt suitable. The adviser said in the 
recommendation letter that the mortgage  would  be repaid using existing endowments and 
the sale of the investment property.  But:
Mr and Mrs L only had one endowment  the one that had been taken out in 1994  to 
cover their previous  interest-only mortgage  of £78,000. This therefore wouldnt have 
been able to cover the full amount of the new mortgage  even if theyd kept it.
The mortgage application showed an endowment was in place that was due to 
mature on 1 July 2014 with a target amount of £225,000 accrued through a monthly 
premium of £150. Its now clear that no such endowment was in place and that this 
wasnt realistic.  Quilter  says the adviser wasnt authorised to check the existence of 
this endowment or to investigate it. But the rules are clear that he did have to 
consider the affordability and appropriateness  of the mortgage  for Mr and Mrs L. And 
Im satisfied this involved considering how it would be repaid.
The guidance set out at MCOB 4.7.8G  said:
A firm may generally rely on any information  provided by the 
customerunless, taking  a common-sense view of this information, it has 
reason to doubt it.
And given  what the adviser says hed been told, I think there would have been 
reason to doubt it.
The Harlequin property they were investing in was a high-risk investment. As the 
investigator explained, the way the investment worked was that Mr and Mrs L paid a 
30% deposit initially. On completion of the building work  theyd therefore only own 
30% of the property  and would need to pay the other 70% of the money to complete.
It wasnt necessary for the adviser to make in-depth checks on the investment itself, 
particularly if he wasnt regulated to give investment advice. But as set out above,  Im 
satisfied he had to consider  whether  there was likely to be a repayment  vehicle.  And 
for this, its relevant to consider how much he knew (or ought to have  known) about 
the investment.  Although not responsible  for giving investment advice, he could still 
be expected to exercise a degree of caution  when considering its appropriateness as 
a repayment vehicle.
Here it was the adviser who had introduced Mr and Mrs L to Harlequin. He clearly 
had an understanding of how the investment worked  and some  of the features of it. 
He would have  known about  some  of the possible  issues  for example, that it was 
an off-plan investment and that further funds would be needed to complete.  And 
whilst these features dont necessarily make  it unsuitable as a repayment vehicle and 
although he wasnt required to give investment  advice, Im satisfied  the knowledge he 
had meant  he ought reasonably to have  known about the risks of using Harlequin as 
Ref: DRN676122610a repayment vehicle. I also note that Mr and Mrs L were relying on him in relation to 
the Harlequin investment  rather than the situation set out in MCOB where the 
adviser relies on what theyre told by the consumer about the investment.
Given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, they were going to have no way of repaying the 
mortgage (other than selling their home) if the Harlequin investment failed. And their 
circumstances  combined with the nature of the Harlequin investment  meant that 
this was far too risky as a repayment strategy and Im satisfied the adviser would 
have known that.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that suitable advice would have been to explain 
the risks of Harlequin  as a repayment vehicle and for Mr and Mrs L to keep the existing 
interest-only mortgage they had. If this had happened, I dont think Mr and Mrs L would have 
borrowed the additional money.  Instead  I think they would have stayed  on their previous 
interest-only mortgage and wouldnt have made the investment in Property 2. Ive set out 
below the compensation that I believe puts Mr and Mrs L back  into the position  theyd have  
been in if theyd received this advice.
fair compensation
I require Quilter to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L £30,500  that is the part of the mortgage  borrowing that was 
taken to invest in Property 2.
Pay Mr and Mrs L the mortgage arrangement fee as well as any other fees that were 
paid for the mortgage or to pay off the previous  mortgage.
Pay Mr and Mrs L any interest  payments theyve  had to make  to service  the £30,500 
of borrowing and any fees that were  added to the mortgage  less any contribution  
Harlequin paid towards those.  Interest should also be added to these amounts at the 
rate of 8% simple a year  from the date each  payment was made  to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs L interest of 8% simple a year on any mortgage fees that they paid 
directly at the time  from the date of the payment to the date of settlement.
Calculate the adjustment to the mortgage  as though the previous mortgage  had been 
paid off when  it should have been,  minus £45,802.86.  And pay that to Mr and Mrs L. 
Im satisfied  the money Mr and Mrs L received when  they cashed  in the endowment  
policy should be deducted because this is money  theyve  had use of.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £500  compensation for the trouble and upset theyve been caused. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr and Mrs L had to sell their house and downsize when they 
couldnt repay the mortgage. I think there were various factors that contributed to this 
and my award here reflects the trouble and upset that Im satisfied can be attributed 
to the part of this complaint Ive upheld.
In return for this, Quilter  may ask Mr and Mrs L to provide an undertaking to give it the net 
amount of any payment they may receive  from Property 2. That undertaking should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount they may receive. Quilter will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr and Mrs L to provide an undertaking, 
Ref: DRN676122611payment of the compensation awarded  by my decision  may be dependent  upon provision of 
that undertaking.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much  has been taken off. Quilter should give 
Mr and Mrs L a tax deduction certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Like the investigator, I havent awarded compensation for the money borrowed above the 
deposit for Property 2. As Ive set out, part of the money  was used to repay savings theyd 
spent, and it seems the rest was held in cash for several years before a further Harlequin 
investment was made. Mr and Mrs L have been free to use these funds as theyve wanted.
my final decision
My final decision is that the mortgage advice Mr and Mrs L received is in this services  
jurisdiction and that Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited can be held responsible for the linked 
investment into Property 2 under this complaint. Im not persuaded it can be held responsible  
for any of the other Harlequin  investments  as part of this complaint.  In relation to the 
mortgage advice  and linked investment into Property 2, Im satisfied the complaint should be 
upheld and Quilter  Mortgage Planning Limited should pay fair compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6761226