K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that, when her buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage product came to an end on 
31 October 2018, The Mortgage  Works  (UK) Plc (TMW) failed to remind  her that she needed  
to switch to a new product. As a result, she had to pay November 2018  and December 
2018s mortgage payments at a higher interest rate. She is asking TMW  to reimburse her.
background
On 17 August 2016 TMW offered  Mrs D a BTL mortgage. It was on a tracker rate until 
31 October 2018. after which it would revert to TMWs Managed Variable Rate (MVR).  Mrs D 
redeemed the mortgage on 12 December 2018.
In December 2018 Mrs D complained to TMW that it had failed to notify her that the product 
was about to expire. TMW didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had sent Mrs D a letter 
on 10 October 2018 reminding her that the product was about  to expire, inviting her to apply 
for another  product and explaining that, after 31 October 2018, the product would move onto 
TMWs MVR.
Mrs D complained to us. She said shed never  received the letter  of 10 October 2018. Mrs D 
explained that she has numerous BTL properties  and always  receives a reminder from her 
lenders when a product is due to expire.  She said she felt taken advantage  of by TMW.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
TMW had written to Mrs D at her home address before the product expired.
Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes provided no new evidence  or 
arguments in support  of her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. These are my reasons.
On 17 September  2018 TMW wrote to Mrs D. Its letter was headed Your current  deals 
ending soon  and it invited her to switch to a new product. 
TMW also wrote to Mrs D on 10 October 2018.  This letter says that the mortgage product is 
due to expire. It invites her to apply for another product and explains the implications for the 
mortgage if she doesnt. 
Both letters are addressed to Mrs D at the same address shes  given us as her home 
address for this complaint  and they have  the correct postcode.
Mrs D is, by her own account, an experienced BTL landlord who owns several rental 
properties. As such, its her responsibility to manage  her BTL business  including  keeping  
track of when her various mortgage  products  are due to expire. So even if the product expiry  
reminders were lost in the post (and I think its unlikely two letters  sent a month apart were 
mislaid by Royal Mail), Mrs D ought to have had some other  reminder set up as an integral 
part of her business operation. The onus is not on TMW to manage Mrs Ds business.
Ref: DRN61672582Rather than switch to a new product  in November 2018, Mrs D decided  instead to 
remortgage to a new lender. TMWs notes  show that it was asked for redemption  statements 
on 5 and 16 October 2018. On 29 November 2018  Mrs D told TMW  that shed applied  for a 
mortgage with a new lender and so the mortgage should have been transferred to that 
lender. TMW  explained that the mortgage was still with it and so she should contact her new 
lender to ensure the application had gone through.
So I think the issue is not that TMW  has done anything wrong; rather, it seems that Mrs D 
paid two months at TMWs MVR because her new mortgage with another lender didnt 
complete before her mortgage with TMW reverted to MVR. Thats  nothing  to do with TMW.  If 
Mrs D is unhappy at the length of time her remortgage took, shell  need to take that up with 
her new lender, mortgage broker or the solicitors acting on the remortgage.
But given that Mrs D was actively  arranging her remortgage in early October 2018, I would 
be hesitant to conclude that she was unaware   as she has claimed  that the product on 
her TMW mortgage was about  to expire.
In the circumstances, I cant find any basis upon  which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
TMW to compensate Mrs D simply because her new mortgage  didnt  complete  before 
31 October 2018.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6167258