K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) wont  send him another  
phone following a claim on his mobile  phone insurance.
background
AGI accepted his claim.  But Mr O says his replacement phone wasnt  delivered. 
Due to the estimated delivery date, Mr O asked AGI to send the phone to his relatives 
address, for the attention of his relatives wife rather than him. AGI made a mistake  and the 
phone was never sent. Mr O then re-arranged for the phone to be sent to his home address.
AGI says the courier delivered the replacement  phone  to Mr Os address on 31 January 
2019. The couriers delivery signature  scree  shows the handset was signed for at 16:50. AGI 
says the courier  confirmed the GPS  co-ordinate checks showed the courier  was in the area 
of Mr Os address. Mr O says the signature wasnt his. 
Our investigator didnt  think AGI had done anything wrong. Mr O disagreed  so the complaint 
was passed to me for decision. On reviewing the case, I came  to a different outcome  to the 
one our investigator did, so I issued  a provisional decision (a copy is attached  at the end of 
this decision) explaining why I was thinking of upholding  Mr Os complaint. But I invited  both 
parties to send me any further information  or comments  before I issued my final decision.
Both parties  confirmed they had received my decision. Mr O accepted  my findings but AGI 
came back  and disagreed  with the provisional  decision. It said the GPS  co-ordinates showed 
the courier was parked  directly outside  Mr O's address. AGI also said the rest of the details 
provided were correct for Mr O's address. Therefore, the fact it wasn't addressed  to Mr O 
didn't having  a bearing on whether the phone  was delivered successfully or not. AGI says it 
had fulfilled its obligation in dispatching Mr O's replacement phone to the correct  address.
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've considered the points  raised by B. Having done this my decision remains the same.  I'll 
explain why. 
The GPS  co-ordinates show the courier was parked on Mr O's road. And the courier's 
testimony says he delivered the phone to someone  he had previously delivered to and is 
known at that address. However, neither of these facts prove that the phone was delivered  
to Mr O. All it shows is that the courier was on Mr O's street and that the courier  delivered 
the phone  to a man he has delivered  to previously  at an address he's delivered  to before.  
The courier  has also confirmed that the name of the person  who signed for the phone wasn't 
Mr O's. I've also considered the fact the signature  on the delivery receipt  isn't legible and the 
name that was given  as to who was signing wasn't Mr O's name.  
Taking all of this into account,  my opinion remains the same.  I think  there is enough  doubt  
around the circumstances  of the complaint to conclude that - on balance - its more likely  
Mr O did not receive the replacement phone.
Ref: DRN68131422my final decision
Im upholding this complaint as explained  above.  
Therefore, Assurant General Insurance Limited should reimburse Mr O for the cost of the 
value of a refurbished phone of the same specifications  as Mr Os phone  at the time. Plus 
8% interest on the cost of the phone from the date Mr O shouldve  received it until the date 
the refund  is made. Plus £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset that has been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
my provisional  findings
AGI had an obligation to provide Mr O with a replacement handset for the one he lost. AGI says it is 
not responsible  for items  once it has been handed over to a third party   like a delivery company. And 
I have seen that this is stated in the terms and conditions  of the policy. However,  I think  AGI has the 
more over-arching responsibility  to ensure its customers  get what they are paying for  that being  a 
replacement phone if their phone is lost or stolen and the claim is successful.  So, I think  its 
reasonable that AGI is responsible for the new phone when its in transit.  
AGI says that the mobile phone was delivered  to Mr Os address. I can see the package  was 
addressed to Mr Os correct address, but it wasnt addressed to Mr O. The name on the package  was 
Ref: DRN68131423the name of Mr Os relatives wife. Its unclear  why AGI didnt change  the name of the recipient back 
to Mr O when  he had to rearrange for the phone to be sent to his address after AGI failed to send it to 
his relatives house. But I think the fact that the phone was addressed to someone who didnt live at 
Mr Os address made it more likely that the phone could go missing. 
Ive considered everyones testimonies. The delivery driver  has confirmed in his testimony that he 
delivered the phone to a man he had previously delivered to and was known  at that address. Mr O 
has remained  consistent in what he has said. And on balance I dont think  he would have acted as he 
did if he had received the phone. Given the regular  contact he had with AGI, he was clearly keen to 
get his replacement phone.  And I think had he received the phone, its unlikely he would  have been 
calling to find out where it was. 
Considering all the circumstances of this complaint, its been difficult  to be sure exactly  what  has 
happened. But I think there is enough  doubt around this matter to conclude is more likely that Mr O 
did not receive  the replacement phone. 
For the fact AGI sent the phone addressed to Mr Os relative instead  of him I think Mr O has lost out 
by something AGI has done  and he has suffered the inconvenience of being  without his replacement 
phone and having to chase for the delivery of the phone on more than one occasion. So, I think an 
award in recognition for the trouble and upset this has caused  should be made. As such,  I direct AGI 
to award Mr O £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN6813142