K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains as a director of M, a limited company, that Trade Direct Insurance  Services 
Ltd mis-sold a business protection insurance policy.
background
Mr P carries out his work through  a limited company,  M. He took out an insurance policy  for 
the company,  which he bought through Trade Direct.
Trade Direct is a broker. It doesnt deal with claims on the policy as thats the responsibility 
of the insurer, a different business.
M tried to make a claim relating to damage caused while working  on a job. The insurer  
rejected it, saying the policy  didnt include cover for that type of claim.  Mr P complained to 
Trade Direct. He said he had explained what kind of work he did through  his company and 
so Trade Direct should have sold a policy that would cover  M for this.
Trade Direct said it hadnt done anything wrong  the policy documents set out what  was 
covered, and Mr P hadnt asked for any optional extras. So it said the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr P then brought  his complaint to this service.  He said he had explained what  sort of work 
he did and what cover he needed when he took out the policy,  and his understanding  was 
that his policy included cover for any damage  he caused to property he was working on.
Trade Direct told us this was not an advised sale, so it was up to Mr P to decide what cover 
he required  for M. It said the cover  was set out clearly in the policy documents  and again at 
subsequent renewals, and Mr P did not request  any of the optional extras until he added 
cover for contract works to his policy in October  2018.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said Trade  Direct informed 
Mr P of the additional  cover options  but he decided he didnt want  to add any extra  cover.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this view.  He said he assumed he had been sold the correct level of 
cover - the cover hed asked for - which is why he didnt pay attention  to the renewal  letters 
and presumed  they were  talking about  products he either already had or didnt need.
As Mr P disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
Before making a decision, I asked Trade Direct  to clarify the circumstances of the sale of the 
policy, in particular whether they had given advice to Mr P about  whether the policy  was 
suitable for M. And I said Ms claim  might have been  covered under the professional  
indemnity section of his policy, which  provides cover  for claims arising out of negligent acts, 
errors or omissions.
Mr P said he would look into a claim on the professional indemnity section with the insurer.  
But he still thought the policy had been mis-sold,  because he specifically asked to be 
covered if he accidentally caused  damage  while working; what  he needed was contract 
works cover, which he wasnt  sold.
Ref: DRN61797032Trade Direct says the claim wouldnt be covered under the professional indemnity section of 
cover  and no policy  would provide cover for damage caused  to the item Mr P was working 
on.
I issue a provisional  decision on this complaint in June. In the provisional  decision I said
Trade Direct says even if its not clear whether it gave advice to Mr P about the sale, it acts 
on a non-advised  basis.  And in any event, it says the outcome would still be the same. 
Thats because the claim is for damage to property he was working on, which  is excluded  
under the policy  terms  and even if he had taken the optional  extra  cover  for contract works, 
it still wouldnt be covered.
Mr P says it was never explained to him that the cover was limited and wouldnt cover claims 
for damage  caused  to items he was working on  the policy says it covers  him for damage 
caused in the course  of works so he expected it to include this type of claim. He says the 
contract works cover is what  he needed and requested.  And he says he has now bought  
another policy from Trade Direct that does include this type of cover.  So he feels he should  
have been sold that cover in the first place, and if he had been, his claim would have been 
covered
Its not entirely clear  if Trade  Direct gave Mr P any advice  about the sale.  The policy  
documents do set out what cover is provided. And there was a conversation where Mr P was 
asked if he wanted  to add additional  cover and didnt request this. So I wouldnt say Trade  
Direct was at fault in not adding this at the time.
But even if there  was a mis-sale, I need  to consider what difference that made.
Having reviewed the professional indemnity section of the policy, this refers to carrying out 
tasks such as design, supervision or surveying. And there is an exclusion for liability  arising  
out of any repair,  alteration,  installation or maintenance. Im not dealing with the claim here, 
but having reviewed this, my view is that its unlikely M would be covered under the 
professional indemnity section of the policy. And its unlikely it would be covered under the 
public liability section   as that excludes any claims relating to the item being worked on  or 
the contract  works cover.
So Ive thought about what  Mr P would have done, had he known  the policy didnt provide 
the cover  for M that he wanted.
Trade Direct says he wouldnt be able to get cover elsewhere for that sort of damage. So 
whatever happened, this isnt something  that would  ever be covered.
Even if he had been sold the contract  works option, I dont think  that would provide the cover 
Mr P wants. Contract works cover is a specific type of cover and wouldnt provide cover for 
damage Mr P causes to an item hes working on. And having reviewed the types  of policies 
available, it seems unlikely Mr P could in fact get cover elsewhere for this. Professional 
indemnity cover is generally  for professional services. And although public liability  cover is 
for accidental damage, its common to have an exclusion  for damage caused to the item 
being worked on.
On this basis, I think its unlikely Mr P could have  got the cover he wanted.
Ref: DRN61797033I can see why Mr P would  want cover for something  that happened accidentally  while  hes 
working. But from the evidence Ive seen,  he wouldnt have been able to get another policy  
elsewhere that would have  provided the cover he wanted. So Ive considered  what he would 
have done, if hed known this.
If Mr P wouldnt have  taken out the policy at all, the fair outcome might  be for his premiums 
to be returned.  Ive considered this carefully. On balance, in my judgment he would still have 
taken out a policy. Hes explained that he wanted the best cover  he could get. Even if he 
couldnt get cover for this particular type of claim, Im satisfied that he would still have 
wanted cover for his business. I think its unlikely that if he couldnt get this specific cover he 
wouldnt have wanted any cover at all; that would have left him potentially open  to other 
claims being made against him for which he wouldnt  have any insurance cover.
For these reasons, my provisional decision was that I did not intend  to uphold the complaint. 
developments
Mr P provided further comments  in reply to the provisional decision.  He said he had spoken 
to another broker and was told he could get the cover he wanted. So I asked him to provide 
details of this. He sent documents relating  to two other policies which  he said would provide 
cover. 
I looked at the policies  Mr P sent but my view didnt change. Both policies provide cover for 
public liability. But they both have exclusions that I think  would likely apply to claims 
involving items being worked on. From the further information  provided it seemed to be the 
case that Mr P couldnt get the cover  he wanted.
However I said that, after the insurer  rejected the claim, Mr P spoke  to Trade  Direct  again. 
And he may have been sold an add-on to his policy on the basis it would cover him for 
further claims of this nature when in fact it wouldnt provide this. So I contacted both Mr P 
and Trade Direct to say I was minded  to uphold this point. I thought  M should be repaid the 
premium for that additional cover and paid compensation of £200  for the inconvenience 
caused.
I put this proposal  to both Mr P and Trade  Direct and invited them  to comment.  Trade Direct 
has said it will agree  to the proposed payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And my view is that the complaint should 
be partly  upheld.
The policies Mr P sent both provide cover for public liability, but have exclusions that I think  
would likely  apply - 
one provides cover for "accidental damage" but says theres no cover  for claims 
arising out of any product the policyholder  supplies or installs  or any work relating  to 
that; or for damage to any property in their custody  or control or forming  part of the 
contract works.
the other policy also excludes cover  for property  in his custody or control. And it has 
an "own works exclusion" that says there is no cover for any work or process the 
Ref: DRN61797034policyholder carries out; and a "rectification of defects" exclusion that says theres no 
cover for any defective or unsuitable  materials  or work carried  out.
Trade Direct has advised that it didnt think there  was a policy that would provide cover  for 
damage to items being working on; it says this is a standard exclusion as insurers  dont wish 
to have to cover claims relating to putting  right issues with the work done. And from the 
further information Ive seen that does seem  to be the case. 
However, having listened to recordings of calls Mr P made to Trade  Direct in October 2018 
after the claim was rejected, Its clear he was told that contract works cover would provide 
cover for M if he is alleged to have damaged something hes working on. He has said this 
was his main concern  - he was shocked to find out he wasnt covered for this. And thats why 
he took out this additional  cover there and then, as he wanted to know he was covered if this 
situation ever arose again.
Having reviewed what was said to Mr P, I think the contract works cover  was sold to him on 
the basis it would cover claims of this nature. And Im satisfied thats  why he added  it. In fact 
it wouldnt provide  cover for this. So to that extent, I think he was mis-sold this additional 
cover. And so I am upholding  the complaint in relation to this point. 
The remedy  for this would be to return the premium for that additional cover.  I think that 
would be fair. And it seems to me that Mr P was given incorrect information  which  led to him 
seeking other cover elsewhere. If Trade Direct had given him the right information  at the 
time, that would have  saved him some  trouble. He has spent  on behalf of his business  
considerable time searching for the right cover, taking him away from his usual business 
activities. So I think a compensation payment for that would also be fair and the figure  I 
intend to award  is £200.
I appreciate this may be of limited comfort  for Mr P. Hes found the whole situation 
distressing. But the complaint is made on behalf of his business and, as a limited company, 
its a separate  legal entity from Mr P himself. So I cant consider any personal upset hes 
suffered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Trade  Direct  Insurance 
Services Ltd to
refund  to M the additional premium  paid for contract works cover; and
pay compensation of £200 for the inconvenience  caused  to M.
Trade Direct Insurance Services  Ltd must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr P (on behalf of M) accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P (on behalf  of 
M) to accept or reject  my decision before  27 October 2019.
Ref: DRN61797035Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6179703