K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved  an overdraft 
increase in April 2017  and a loan application in March  2018. 
background 
Mr M has a Santander current account with overdraft facility. Mr M has had a number of 
loans with Santander going  back to September 2012. The most  recent  loan was for £8,000  
and was approved  in March 2018. Part of the new loan was used to repay Mr Ms existing  
loan and around £4,000  was paid to his current account. 
Last year Mr Ms daughter (Mrs P) contacted Santander on his behalf and complained about 
the borrowing  it had approved. She pointed out that Mr M is over 80 years old and feels  hes 
in a vulnerable  position.  Santander  responded on 5 November 2018 but said Mr Ms 
application had been referred  to its underwriters and approved  because  it was affordable. 
On behalf of her father, Mrs P asked us to look at his complaint and it was passed  to an 
investigator. The investigator thought  the complaint should be upheld  as Mr Ms bank 
statements showed he had an extensive  history of gambling. The investigator said that if 
Santander had looked at Mr Ms bank statements it would  most likely have declined to lend.  
She said Santander should  refund any interest  and charges Mr M has paid to the loan 
balance and remove them  from future payments. 
Santander didnt  agree. It accepted Mr Ms bank  statements showed he gambles extensively 
but says hes managed  his accounts within the agreed limits. Santander said its systems  
approved the loan without  any intervention from staff members and that it didnt  check  the 
bank statements. Santander  asked to appeal the investigators view so Mr Ms complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander says that Mr Ms accounts  were run within the agreed  limits and he hadnt missed  
any payments. I understand that Santander also checked Mr Ms credit  file before agreeing 
to proceed and looked at what he told them about  his outgoings. When  Mr Ms outgoings  
figure seemed too low, Santander  used a higher figure to ensure the loan was affordable. 
When considering  whether  to borrow Id expect a lender to complete proportionate checks to 
ensure the borrowing was sustainable over the term. 
Whilst I note the above, Im not persuaded that Santanders checks  went far enough in this 
case. And, if Santander  had completed  proportionate  checks, I think  its more likely than not 
that it wouldve  declined  to proceed with Mr Ms loan application. 
Like the investigator, Ive looked  at Mr Ms overdraft extension in April 2017. The level of 
increase was reasonably modest and whilst  I can see Mr M regularly used the overdraft its 
managed in line with the account terms. I dont  think Santander made a mistake when it 
approved the overdraft  extension. 
Ref: DRN61438162I dont think the checks  Santander completed  before deciding to proceed  with the loan in 
March 2018 were reasonable or proportionate.  Santanders told us that it didnt find any 
concerns on Mr Ms credit file and his previous loan accounts had been well maintained.  Its 
explained that Mr M was borrowing,  in part, to repay  a more expensive  loan so the refinance 
led to less interest being paid. I agree with all these points. But I think  there  were  other  
points Santander  shouldve thought about. Had it done so, I think it wouldve looked more 
closely at his application. 
Mr M is over 80 years old and has had an active loan with Santander  since  September  2012.  
I appreciate Mr Ms first loan was repaid in full but Mr M applied  for a new loan on 
4 November 2014, around two weeks after he repaid the previous one. Since then, Mr M has 
refinanced his borrowing several times  and this is the fifth loan in that process. 
Another point  Santander couldve taken into account  was that the term significantly  
increased. The longest previous term was 36 months but this new loan was for 60 months. 
So whilst I accept his interest  rate went down, the term of the borrowing increased  
substantially. An increase in the term of borrowing after such a long period of continuous 
lending shouldve caused Santander to look closely at Mr Ms loan application. 
I note the loan amount increased substantially  when it went  up to £8,000. Again, I think  this 
was a point where  Santander shouldve thought about Mr Ms application in more detail. 
Taken together, I think  the above  shouldve been  enough to cause Santander to ask more 
questions about  Mr Ms loan application. I appreciate  Santanders point that the loan was 
approved by an automated system. But I think there were enough warning signs here that 
the application shouldve been considered  again. I note that Santanders  final response 
dated 5 November 2018 says the application  was passed to a team of underwriters and 
approved. But Santander later said the loan was automatically approved by its systems. 
Had Santander completed proportionate  checks I think it wouldve asked Mr M for more  
information and evidence of his circumstances.  I cant  tell it how to underwrite a loan, but I 
note Mr M holds  his current account  with Santander  and thats one of a number of things it 
couldve looked at before deciding to proceed. 
Santanders sent us statements for Mr Ms account and I can see an extensive history  of 
gambling. Often, Mr M gambles several times  more  than his monthly income.  I note 
Santanders point  that he managed his accounts in line with the terms but I still think that if 
someone had completed more comprehensive  checks, like reviewing his bank statements, 
its more likely than not that the application  wouldve been  declined. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I agree with the investigators view that Santander 
lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ms loan in March 2018. I think  there were several 
warning signs, not least  the continuous borrowing history, increase in loan amount and 
significant increase  in term which  shouldve  caused Santander to think about the checks  it 
completed. Had Santander completed proportionate checks I think its likely it wouldve found  
Mr Ms gambling history and declined to approve the loan. As a result, I agree this complaint 
should be upheld.  
Ref: DRN61438163my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Santander  UK Plc to do the following: 
-Refund all interest  and charges applied from the date the loan was funded to the date 
of settlement. The refund should  be used  to reduce the outstanding loan balance. 
-Remove interest and charges from the loan for the remainder of the term. 
-Delete any adverse information registered with the credit reference  agencies in 
relation to Mr Ms loan. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6143816