K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains Masthaven Bank Limited  hasnt  given her credit  for paying six months 
worth of interest on a loan upfront.
background
Mrs H had a property that she wanted  to redevelop and sell. The redevelopment took longer 
than expected, because of a delayed planning permission application. So Mrs H took out a 
one year bridging loan and then a six month extension.
Mrs H paid just over £38,000 in interest up front when she took out the extension.  She 
complained to Masthaven that it hadnt  given her credit for paying the interest up front  
instead it had charged her interest  on the whole balance outstanding on a monthly basis.  
Mrs H is unhappy with Masthavens calculations too.
Masthaven investigated Mrs Hs complaint about not giving her credit  for the interest shed 
paid up front. It didnt  uphold the complaint, however, saying that itd had made it clear that it 
wouldnt be giving credit for the payment  up front. Instead Masthaven  said that the payment 
had sat on the account as a reserve reducing each time an interest payment became due. 
Mrs H wasnt happy and so complained  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint but didnt think  Masthaven  had done  
anything wrong. Mrs H disagreed, saying  that theyd also made a number of mistakes in their 
calculations. Our investigator said that Masthaven would have to look into the new issues 
that Mrs H had raised. In the meantime, Mrs H said shell like an ombudsman  to consider her 
original complaint. So thats what  Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H found herself in the difficult position  of needing to redevelop a property before selling 
it and the redevelopment  then taking longer. So she took out a bridging loan. She then had 
to extend that bridging loan, and was given four options  A, B, C and D. Ive seen the 
paperwork setting out these options and also emails Mrs H and Masthaven  sent each other. 
In those emails, Mrs H said that it wasnt fair that she wouldnt be given credit for the lump 
sum interest  payment shed be making and that she thought there should be an option for 
this. I can understand  why she felt this way  Masthaven  had asked  her to pay just over 
£38,000 in interest  up front and this was going to sit on her account. But Masthaven  
explained to Mrs H why this was the case,  namely it wasnt  satisfied  that Mrs H would be 
able to afford the monthly payments so it needed  her to pay up front otherwise it wouldnt 
have been able to approve  the extension.
Having looked  through the terms of the bridging  loan,  and the paperwork Mrs H signed along 
with the explanations Masthaven  gave, I dont think I can say that Masthaven  acted unfairly. 
The bridging loan worked on the basis that Mrs H had to pay the interest up front, that 
interest was treated as retained  interest  and each  month when the next interest payment 
became due this was deducted from the retained  interest. More  importantly,  the 
documentation made it clear that the upfront payment wasnt intended to reduce the amount  
outstanding. I know thats what Mrs H thought it should do, and that she believes shes  
Ref: DRN64773472ended up paying  interest on interest as a result. But thats not how the loan worked.  So I 
agree with our investigator that it wouldnt  be right to uphold Mrs Hs original complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6477347