K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds (AXA) premium  increases.
background
Mr and Mrs D have had private  medical  insurance  (PMI) with AXA for the family since  2006 
and have renewed their cover each year. In 2017,  AXA told Mr D that the plan he was on 
(the Secure Health  Options plan) was no longer being offered but Mr D and his family could 
move onto a Personal  Health  Plan which was the closest  alternative.  The annual premium 
increased from £5,335.32 to £6,208.08.  
Mr D contacted AXA and asked if a discount could be applied but AXA said this wasnt  
possible. It could  reduce  the premium if Mr D changed to a lower  level plan but he didnt 
want to do this. 
In 2018, the premium rose again  to £7,385.16.  AXA told Mr D that this was because of the 
claims made  on the policy which had affected the no-claims discount  (NCD).  Mr D wasnt 
happy and said he didnt know this was a key feature of the plan he had been moved to. He 
complained that the plan was unsuitable for him because he would have to claim on the 
policy at least twice  a year for consultations  following  previous  cancer  treatment and so this 
would mean  that the price would go up each  year.
AXA looked  into the complaint but didnt agree that it had done  anything wrong as the 
previous plan was no longer available and Mr D was offered the most comparable  
alternative. And although the new plan had an NCD discount, this was made clear  in the 
renewal documents  sent to him. 
Mr D remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.  Our investigator didnt 
think AXA had done anything wrong  as it hadnt treated him differently to any other customer 
in the same circumstances. And it was entitled  to decide its premiums  as part of its 
commercial judgement.
Mr D disagreed and said the investigator  had simply repeated what AXA had said.  And so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld,  and largely  for the same  
reasons as explained by the investigator. 
AXA is entitled to decide its premiums based on a number of risk factors  - this service 
doesnt tell an insurer how to asses risk or calculate  the cost of providing cover. This is part 
of an insurers commercial judgment based  on its expenses,  costs,  the increasing  cost of 
medical treatment and claims made by all of its customers. 
AXA has provided this service with evidence of how it has calculated  Mr Ds premiums.  And 
although I cant share this information  with Mr D as it is commercially sensitive, I can assure  
Mr D that Ive thoroughly  checked this and Im satisfied  that Mr D hasnt been treated any 
Ref: DRN60859532differently from any other customer on the same plan with similar  circumstances. So I cant 
say AXA has treated Mr D unfairly.  
Mr D doesnt think the NCD model is fair, but this is clearly explained to Mr D in the policy 
documents. NCD policies are common in the PMI industry and it hasnt been applied 
differently in Mr Ds case. I appreciate Mr Ds point that this means his premiums will 
continuously increase as he will have to make  a claim  at least  twice  a year. But this is how a 
NCD scheme works and it isnt unfair  that his premiums will rise in this way as this is how the 
scheme works for all of AXAs customers on the same plan. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my decision but I hope Ive explained how Ive 
reached my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6085953