K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way a pension he took out has been  handled  and he wants TSB 
Bank plc to provide information about whats happened. 
background
TSB Bank has said that Mr P took out a pension  with another  company in 1982 and it was 
that companys  responsibility to tell Mr P that itd merged  with another business  in 1995. TSB 
Bank has no access to these products as they arent  TSB Bank  related. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Its not TSB Banks  fault that other  businesses  didnt tell Mr P what had happened to 
his pension which is now managed by another company.  
TSB Bank isnt a continuation  of the business Mr P took out his pension with. It had 
no involvement in the movement  of his pension to another business and it hasnt had 
access to details  about it. Mr P has one active bank  account  with TSB Bank and its 
historic notes dont show  any record of a pension with it. 
TSB Bank has dealt  with Mr P fairly. It has no involvement with his pension and it 
cant move  it as its now held with another provider.  
Mr P doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that there is a close similarity  between the names of the business Mr P originally 
took out his pension with and TSB Bank.  And this has helped confuse  things. But as the 
investigator has said, the simple fact is TSB Bank isnt a continuation of that business. And 
TSB Bank has never  held or administered his pension and it had no involvement in the 
movement of Mr Ps pension to any other business  or provider. It also hasnt had access  to 
details about it.
I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling  and frustration. But taking everything into account I 
dont see any reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case. And I cant  require TSB 
Bank to take any action  in respect  of a pension its never been involved with and doesnt 
administer.
Ref: DRN69097812my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909781