K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a loan she took out.
background 
BoS sold Miss F a PPI policy when she took out a loan in 2003. The PPI was paid for upfront 
by Miss F borrowing more. The loan was for £6,000 and the PPI cost a further  £1,202.31   
so she borrowed £7,202.31 in total and the PPI would have cost more  with interest over the 
full term of the loan.  This type of policy is called a single premium policy.
Miss F was taking out the loan to consolidate  other debt, which meant she may have wanted 
the flexibility to pay this loan off early  and cancel the PPI policy. If she had done so she 
wouldve received  a partial refund,  but it wouldnt have been enough to pay off the full 
amount she would still have owed for the PPI. So this extra amount would have to be paid 
back when the loan closed, either with her own money or by borrowing more  if she repaid 
her loan with another one. 
Miss F complained to BoS that PPI had been  mis-sold. BoS agreed  a single premium PPI 
policy wasnt suitable for her needs, bearing  in mind her borrowing history. 
But apart from the problem about the way the policy was paid for, BoS said that PPI was 
suitable for Miss F. So its offered to pay her the difference between what the single premium 
PPI cover cost her in total and what a regular monthly policy  wouldve cost had it sold her 
that type of policy  instead. 
Our adjudicator thought this was fair. But Miss F disagreed. So Ive been asked to consider 
her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think BoS made Miss F aware  that she had a choice about buying the policy, and that she 
chose to take it out. BoS has been able to give us a copy of the actual credit  agreement 
signed by Miss F as well as the application  form for the loan.   
The application form contains two boxes. One contains a statement beginning, Yes I would 
like to take advantage of the peace of mind offered by Personal Loan Repayments  Cover.
The other box contained a statement beginning, No, I do not want  to take advantage of 
Personal Loan  Repayments Cover. 
I can see Miss F has signed within the Yes  box.
Ref: DRN63978332I also see the credit agreement signed by Miss F set out the PPI separately to the main  loan.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Miss F knew  she had a choice and 
agreed to buy the PPI but I can understand if she cant  recall  this after so many years.
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss F, so it had to check  if the cover  was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
Miss F has told us she was employed and that her employer wouldve paid her some  sick 
pay if she became too unwell  to work.  But the PPI sold to Miss F couldve paid out a monthly 
benefit on top of any sick pay. And it couldve continued to pay a monthly benefit for the 
remaining term of the loan if Miss F was unable to return to work. And it would  have also 
paid off the loan if she died or suffered a critical illness. 
The policy would also have paid out for up to 12 months if Miss F lost her job. Meaning she 
could use any redundancy pay for other  living costs.
Miss F has told us her family wouldve helped her if needed. But this type of help cant 
always be relied on. And it could be that Miss Fs family may not have been in the position  to 
help her when  she most  needed it.
The cost of the policy was shown  including the premium, the interest payable  on the 
premium and the total cost. So it was clear how much the PPI would cost Miss F if she kept 
the policy for its full term. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the main limitations  on the PPI  a pre-existing medical  condition  as an 
example.
So I think Miss F had a need for the cover, and it wouldve been useful to her if something  
went wrong. So I dont  think better  information about  the PPI wouldve  put her off taking out 
the cover.
But Miss F wouldve only got a limited  refund  of the premium if the policy was cancelled  
early. And Miss Fs borrowing  history would suggest that this was possible. Because  of this    
I think the single premium policy was mis-sold to Miss F. 
The offer BoS made for this particular PPI sale is known as alternative redress  (AR). This 
is when a business thinks the consumer  would have bought a regular premium  policy  
instead of a single premium  one. And the redress puts the customer in the position they 
wouldve been in if this had happened. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. The 
FCA considered the type of offer that BoS made in this case  and they thought the type of 
offer was fair to make in some circumstances. And the FCA said once this type of offer was 
made, a business  didnt  have to do anything else to fairly  resolve the complaint. It says a 
business can offer AR when the business:
Ref: DRN63978333recommended a policy, that didnt offer a proportionate refund of the single premium,  
without considering if the consumer might want to repay  or refinance the loan early 
or;
didnt tell the consumer they wouldnt receive  a proportionate refund of the single 
premium amount if they repaid or refinanced the loan early or;
didnt tell the consumer the premium would be added to the loan, that it would  attract 
interest and what that interest would be or;
didnt tell the consumer the term of the policy  was shorter  than the term of the loan 
and; 
there was nothing else wrong  with how the PPI was sold that would mean the 
consumer wouldnt have bought a regular  premium policy.
Having looked  at what happened  in Miss Fs sale, I think the only mistake BoS made  when it 
sold this policy is covered by the AR guidance.  Apart from that, I think the policy was right for 
her.
Taking everything into account,  I think BoS offer of compensation is fair. It aims to put 
Miss F in the position shed be in now if shed  taken out a regular premium PPI policy.
my final decision
For these reasons, Ive decided the offer made by Bank of Scotland  Plc is fair and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
If Bank of Scotland Plc hasnt done so already,  it should update  its offer and make payment 
to Miss F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6397833