K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 1990 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £420 a month towards Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £18.90 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a labourer.  He has told us he was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  their mortgage should  he be unable to 
work. But I think Mr B would have been entitled  to at least statutory  redundancy pay. Mr B 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs B has told us that she was a dinner  lady at the time of the sale but that they were trying  
for a baby and so she thinks  the policy wouldnt have provided cover for her if she became  
pregnant. But Mrs B wasnt covered by the policy  it provided cover for Mr B only.
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN69469422The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN69469423The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN69469424Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  from the time and I can see there is a 
section for PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if you want  to take out the cover.  On 
Mr and Mrs Bs form the box has been  ticked to confirm  the policy is required. If they didnt 
want to take out the PPI they could have left the box in this section blank. Both Mr and Mrs B 
have signed the application  form which suggests  they agreed with everything that had been 
entered.
Ive also seen a copy of the separate  PPI application  form which was completed as a result  
of them  stating they wanted PPI. The form has been  completed  with Mr B as the only 
insured person and includes details of the amount of monthly  benefit required.  Mr and Mrs B 
have both signed the application.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Mr and Mrs B havent said if YBS provided them with advice. YBS says it didnt  provide  them  
with advice during  this sale. Looking at what YBS says happened  when it sold Mr and Mrs B 
the PPI, I dont think that it provided  advice.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr B 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment),  the monthly benefit, the 
length of time it would pay the benefit for and with the approximate  costs. Ive reached this 
conclusion because the mortgage application  described the policy  as providing  cover for up 
to 12 months if Mr B became unemployed or unable to work  due to accident or sickness  
and the separate PPI form detailed the monthly  benefit required. And, whilst  the documents  
from the sale didnt  confirm the amount they would have to pay for the policy,  I have seen 
that the mortgage offer did include details  of the premium amount. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs B 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN69469425So I dont  think YBS gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs B representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done  things properly.  
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr B being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs B chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs B thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
Ref: DRN69469426differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs B were given about  the monthly benefit and cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
YBS no longer  has a copy of the policy from the date of sale, and it has referred us to policy 
documents issued  in 1987 and 1991. From what I can see the policy terms and conditions 
are broadly  similar and therefore  I think, on a balance of probabilities,  the terms from the 
1991 policy wording  are more likely than not to be similar to those that applied to 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  defect, infirmity or 
recurring disease for which  Mr B had received treatment or advice  during  the 12 
months immediately preceding the start date of the policy and which  recurred during 
the first 12 months of the insurance; 
The policy excluded claims for any chronic or continuing disease suffered by and 
known to Mr B at the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own gainful occupation or any similar gainful occupation which he may 
reasonably be expected  to undertake bearing in mind his knowledge and training.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr B was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr B 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs B would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs B had known Mr B could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to 
do his job but also unable to do any similar gainful  occupation which he may be reasonably 
expected to undertake bearing in mind his knowledge and training, it might have played into 
Ref: DRN69469427their thinking  about what  they would do. And I accept it may have given them pause for 
thought  although given  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and the limited other means  they 
had to make  their repayments if Mr B wasnt working, on balance, I still think  they would 
have been interested in taking out the cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr B was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN69469428Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of YBSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1990  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946942