K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W bought a monthly premium PPI policy in July 2007 at the same  time as taking out a 
credit card. The card and policy  were applied for during a meeting.
Mrs W says the policy  was mis-sold  to her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs W when he discussed having  a 
credit card with an advisor from HSBC during a meeting. But Ive looked at sales 
documentation and considered what I know of HSBC  branch sales  at that time. 
I consider it is more likely that she was advised  it was a good idea to have the insurance  
to protect  her card repayments, and she took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in a sample  application form provided 
that there is a separate section for PPI. Mrs W has signed  separately within  this section 
as well, agreeing  to have it. I havent  been able to see any evidence  that anything  
different happened in this sale and Mrs Ws recollections have not persuaded me on this 
occasion that she wasnt given a choice  to have it either. So on balance,  as I have 
already concluded, I think  Mrs W was given a choice in the meeting.
I think HSBC recommended  the PPI to Mrs W. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. The benefit  provided 
by the policy  would  have been  useful to her if she had any period of sickness or 
unemployment. Any claim would  have provided  her with additional income at a difficult 
time in addition to her provisions including her widows benefits. So I think the policy  
recommended to Mrs W would have been  of use and so I cannot  conclude that it would 
have been unsuitable  for her based  on what I have  seen. I also dont think there were 
any significant terms or exclusions that made  the policy unsuitable for Mrs W either.
HSBC has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear  costs at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Mrs W wouldve changed  her mind about taking the policy if this 
cost was presented  clearly to her during the meeting (for the same reasons why I think  
the policy is suitable).
Ref: DRN61625012Its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mrs W wouldve  been affected by any of these, due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mrs W but I cannot find a reason to uphold her 
complaint. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs W.
But HSBC  plc does  have to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6162501