K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 7 March 2019, a 
copy of which is attached. I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold and I didnt conclude that 
the complaint  should be upheld.
Neither party provided any further evidence or comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Mrs Ts representative  and FICL  havent  provided any fresh information or evidence  in 
response to my provisional  decision. I therefore find no basis  to depart from my earlier  
conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69511502copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs T complains that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought  on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs T took out in 1999. It was sold 
to her when she applied for the card in store. The PPI covered Mrs T if she was unable to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should 
take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld,  concluding that Mrs T wouldnt 
have been able to make  a successful claim  for an existing  medical condition. The adjudicator  didnt 
think Mrs T wouldve taken the policy if this exclusion had been  pointed  out to her.
FICL didnt agree so the case  has been  passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Im not minded to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Overall, I think  its most likely FICL made Mrs T aware  she had a choice  about buying the policy and 
she chose to take it. I say this because the application form included a separate  section  headed 
Account  Cover and Mrs T has signed  separately to show that she wanted it.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs T got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
The policy terms say:
We will not pay You Disability benefits  resulting  from:
any sickness,  disease, condition or injury  which You knew about or should have known  about or for 
which You received advice,  treatment or counselling from any Doctor during the 12 months before the 
Start Date.
Mrs T told us she had a pre-existing medical condition but when we asked her representative for more 
information about this it was either unable  or unwilling to provide  it. I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that Mrs T had a pre-existing  medical  condition in 1999. And if she did, I havent seen 
evidence to persuade me that Mrs T would  have  anticipated that any time off work  would likely be due 
to this condition.
That being the case, I dont  think Mrs T wouldve made a different decision  if the pre-existing medical  
terms had been brought to her attention.
It doesnt  look like Mrs T was affected  by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover and it looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs T wouldve made  a different decision  if better 
information had been provided.
Ref: DRN69511503Ive taken into account that Mrs T recalls  she wouldve received six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer  if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident.  But the PPI 
wouldve covered her until she returned to work, so couldve been a useful benefit  in addition to her 
existing arrangements.  It also covered her if she became unemployed.
Overall I dont think Mrs T has lost out by anything FICL might have  done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6951150