K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a mortgage and associated payment protection  
insurance by an appointed  representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr K took out an interest only mortgage  in 2005 on L&Gs advice. Again on its advice, he re-
mortgaged on repayment terms in 2007. He also purchased single premium  accident 
sickness and unemployment alongside the 2005 mortgage.
Represented by a CMC, Mr K now complains  about the 2005 and 2007 sales.  It said Mr K 
had no need for new mortgages, wasnt struggling  financially  and had no need to change  his 
outgoings. He therefore incurred substantial  costs unnecessarily. 
L&G responded to the CMC saying that it didnt agree the mortgages were mis-sold  in 2005 
or 2007. And it said it had dealt with the sale of the insurance policy in a complaint response 
in 2012.
In a previous decision, I said we couldnt consider  the sale of the insurance policy  as the 
complaint about  that was made out of time  but we could consider the sale of the mortgage.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that complaint be upheld, so it comes  to me for a final 
decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2005, the fact find records  that Mr K already had a repayment mortgage, together  with a 
substantial personal  loan  itself taken  out for debt consolidation. The new mortgage 
consolidated that loan,  and was taken out on an interest only basis.
The suitability record says that the switch  to interest only was done because  that was the 
only affordable option.  The new mortgage  was substantially  cheaper  than the old one plus 
the loan each month, allowing Mr K to significantly reduce his outgoings. The CMC now says 
that was unnecessary.  But the fact find from the time records  that Mr K had limited 
disposable income. 
The suitability record says that Mr K was paying  child maintenance, which was expected to 
end in one to two years  time. This would coincide with the end of the fixed rate Mr K took 
with this mortgage, and the broker therefore  recommended that he review  the repayment  
arrangements at that time.
In 2007, two years later, Mr K switched back to a repayment mortgage. He didnt borrow any 
further money at this time.
Looking at all the circumstances,  Im not persuaded that Mr K received unsuitable  advice. 
Ive noted that the CMC  says he was comfortably managing all his outgoings and had no 
need to re-mortgage. But that doesnt  reflect what was recorded at the time, and Im not 
persuaded that was the case. It seems to me that Mr Ks finances were  tight in 2005. He had 
Ref: DRN66593822a significant loan, which had consolidated other  debt. He was paying  child maintenance, and 
would do so for the next one to two years. He had limited disposable income.
It seems  to me that in 2005 Mr K needed, temporarily, to reduce his outgoings. He 
consolidated the debt and switched to interest  only which achieved that. The plan was 
always to switch back to repayment terms once things eased. And in 2007,  when he had a 
higher income  and lower outgoings, thats  what he did. Taken as a whole,  Im not persuaded 
that the advice  in 2005 and 2007 was unsuitable.  It allowed  Mr K to get through a tricky 
period and get back on an even keel again. I dont therefore think it would  be fair to uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6659382