K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss A say Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr G and Miss A bought  the policy in 2009, to protect the repayment on a mortgage they 
had taken out in 2008. They  applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £628 a month towards Mr G and Miss As mortgage  balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £27.02  a month. 
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as a production worker. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least 6 months sick pay, a redundancy payment and Death-In-Service  benefits. Mr G has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Mr G and Miss As representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr G and Miss As representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr G and Miss A 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr G and Miss As representative  believes there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr G and Miss A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to 
Mr G and Miss A and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a 
claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr G and Miss A received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Ref: DRN69782642Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G and Miss A disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr G and Miss As. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and Miss As 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN69782643GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering [s complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr G and Miss A with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr G and Miss A sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN69782644-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr G and Miss A, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Santander  and 
Mr G and Miss A, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr G and Miss As complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr G and Miss A know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Santander dont  have a copy of an application form signed by Mr G for the PPI policy.  But its 
provided a copy of a document  prepared  by the mortgage adviser. And this indicates that 
there was a discussion with Mr G about  the PPI policy  at the meeting.  And in relation to this 
policy it is clearly  stated  in the document that:
You have made your own choice on whether to proceed. It is an optional policy and is 
separate to any mortgage loan
The document goes on to state that Mr G had chosen to take unemployment cover only with 
a monthly benefit  of £525.00.
Santander has also provided a copy of an introductory letter sent to Mr G after the meeting. 
This letter thanks Mr G for choosing to take out the PPI policy  and tells him that, although 
hes only chosen to take out unemployment cover on the policy, he could  add accident  and 
sickness cover if he wanted to.
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr G and Miss A disagree.  Looking 
at what happened  when Santander sold Mr G and Miss A the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.  Its clear that Mr G and Miss A dont  have  a good memory of the sale. But 
Ive seen a copy  of a document  prepared  by the mortgage adviser Mr G and Miss A spoke to 
which explicitly states that this was a non-advised sale. So Ive taken this to be the case.
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr G and Miss A. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
Mr G and Miss A to make  an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr G and Miss A were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their mortgage 
payments if Mr G was unemployed) and of the approximate costs.  Ive reached this 
Ref: DRN69782645conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr G and Miss A would have taken  out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr G and Miss A agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Santander gave Mr G and Miss A sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr G and Miss As representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr G and Miss As. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr G and Miss As representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr G and Miss A about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr G and Miss As representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr G and Miss A have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings have  on Mr G and Miss A? To what  extent did 
Mr G and Miss A suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr G and Miss A. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr G and Miss A suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr G and Miss A would  have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander 
done things properly. 
Mr G and Miss A say they would not have taken it out and believe that I should  presume this 
to be the case  given the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN69782646As this was a non-advised sale, Mr G and Miss A had to weigh  up in their own minds  the 
cost of the policy against the benefits offered  and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr G being unemployed. 
As Ive found above, Mr G and Miss A chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
Mr G and Miss A thought they were  getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which 
this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr G and Miss A have suffered 
any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr G and Miss A knew they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, I dont think I can be sure that Santander told them the exact  
premium at the point  they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  
Mr G and Miss A would have been  told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for 
the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander at 
the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr G and Miss A would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr G and Miss A would 
get back in return  in the event Mr G made  a successful claim. But I think its unlikely 
Mr G and Miss As expectations  about  what the policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G and Miss A thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  for the first 60 days after the start of 
the policy.
There was a 28-day  waiting period  for unemployment claims before benefit  was 
payable.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr G and Miss A pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  
that the policy was not as good  as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G and Miss A 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr G and Miss As circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr G was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to them  should  
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr G 
Ref: DRN69782647would have been likely to be caught  by any of the most significant  exclusions  Mr G was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Santander may not have told Mr G and Miss A that any claim Mr G made would be limited to 
a 12-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped 
for. But the claim would  have been  made in addition to any redundancy compensation Mr G 
might have received,  allowing the latter to be used for other  things. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr G and Miss A would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr G become  unemployed in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Gs redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr G and Miss A would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr G was made redundant. In the circumstances  I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mr G and Miss A would have taken out the policy  in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr G and Miss As representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr G and Miss A wouldnt have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr G and Miss As circumstances as detailed  above,  I consider  it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr G and Miss A found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position 
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr G and Miss A believe[s] the presumption may only be rebutted when  the flaws  in the 
sales process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have 
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would 
not have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
Ref: DRN69782648represent fair compensation to put Mr G and Miss A in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Santander should pay Mr G and Miss A compensation, as that would put them  in 
a better  position than they would have  been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr G and Miss A think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave 
Mr G and Miss A, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair 
and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2009 when providing information  about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr G and Miss As representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Santander  negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr G and Miss A 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Santander had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr G and Miss A in a better position 
than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss A 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6978264