K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about a catalogue shopping account with Shop  Direct Finance Company 
Limited which was opened  without his consent or authority.
background 
Mr B says he received  a letter  notifying him of an account with Shop Direct that had been 
opened in his name. Mr B says he received arrears notices about the account and that he 
contacted Shop Direct four times to let them know he hadnt opened this account,  but 
nothing had been done. Mr B also says that Shop  Direct passed  his account over to debt 
collectors despite him telling them that it had been  opened fraudulently. Mr B has asked for 
compensation for the stress this has caused him.
Shop Direct recognised that the items ordered on the account were  requested  to be 
delivered to an alternative address - one that wasnt Mr Bs - so they initially put a hold on 
the order. But the order was then released  when further searches linked the email address 
and telephone number used for the order,  to dual accounts held in Mr Bs name. It then 
came to light that the items appeared to have been  ordered by Mr Bs ex-partner - who Mr B 
was no longer in contact  with. However,  Shop Direct say as Mr B didnt report this to the 
police and wasnt able to provide them with a crime reference number, they werent able to 
investigate matters further. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. In summary, he said Shop Direct hadnt been 
able to show Mr B had knowledge  of this account. Or that he provided  his authority for 
another party to open  this account  in his name. So, our investigator recommended  Shop 
Direct buy back the debt from the debt collectors and write off the outstanding amount,  
remove any information in relation  to this account from Mr Bs credit file and pay him £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  Shop Direct agreed to our investigators 
recommendation. But Mr B said he felt the £100  compensation wasnt  sufficient for the 
inconvenience caused to him. So, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information provided by both Mr B and Shop Direct. I can see some  of the 
details provided  on the account  werent  Mr Bs. There was also a payment made on the 
account which Shop Direct have confirmed wasnt made by Mr B. Both Mr B and Shop Direct 
have since accepted the account was opened without Mr Bs consent or knowledge. And 
Shop Direct have  agreed to resolve  things by buying the debt back from the debt collectors,  
write off the outstanding amount and remove any adverse information in relation to this 
account from Mr Bs credit  file. And I think is fair. As this part of the complaint is no longer in 
dispute, I wont be commenting on this further in my decision. 
Whilst Mr B has accepted most of the investigators  recommendation  on how Shop  Direct 
should put things right, he doesnt think £100 compensation is fair for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. So, this is whats left for me to decide. And having considered 
everything, I think £100 is fair. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN60307872Mr B was going through a difficult time in his life at the same  time he was trying to resolve 
this issue with Shop Direct. Mr B contacted Shop Direct four times to let them  know  he 
hadnt opened the account and therefore, wasnt responsible for the outstanding amount. I 
can understand the stress and worry this wouldve caused Mr B at an already difficult time 
for him. Whilst  I appreciate Shop Direct wanted  Mr B to report  matters  to the police, I dont 
think Mr Bs decision not to do this meant Shop Direct couldnt  continue investigating 
matters. Or that Mr B was liable for this account.
Mr B says he continued to receive  arrears notices despite telling Shop Direct that he didnt 
consent or have  knowledge of this account. I think this wouldve caused Mr B further distress 
as he was understandably concerned about  being asked to pay an outstanding balance  he 
didnt owe.
Mr B says this issue could have impacted his job. And that it also couldve impacted his 
ability to take out other forms of credit  with other  lenders. However, Mr B told us that 
fortunately, he didnt  need to take out other credit. Whilst I acknowledge this could have 
been a possibility for Mr B, I havent seen  any evidence  to persuade me this actually did 
happen. 
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on the matter  and I can understand the distress and 
inconvenience this would  have caused him. However, Ive also had consideration to the fact 
that Shop Direct werent the perpetrators of the fraud - an element of distress  has been  
caused by Mr Bs ex-partner who opened this account without his consent or authority.  For 
the reasons Ive explained, I think £100  compensation  is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I note Mr B has complained about the actions  of the debt collectors.  However, this isnt 
something I can consider  against Shop Direct.  If Mr B remains  unhappy  with this, hell need 
to raise a separate complaint about the debt collectors.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited to:
Buy back  the debt from the debt collectors and write off the outstanding amount.
Remove any information in relation to this account from Mr Bs credit file.
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030787