K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a Privilege Account  (PA) by The Co-operative  Bank  
Plc (Co-op Bank). 
background
Mrs M took out a fee free bank account  with Co-op Bank  in July 1984.
Mrs Ms account upgraded  to a PA in January 2004  for a monthly fee of £6.
Mrs M says she has no recollection of the upgrade  to the PA happening, didnt know  
anything about  it and wants all her fees returned.
In response to Mrs Ms complaint, Co-op Bank  did not uphold  her complaint about the 
upgrade to the PA in 2004.  But it has agreed that Mrs M became no longer eligible for the 
PA in July 2015 and has refunded her monthly  fees from then in line with this services 
approach.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and decided that Co-op Banks response was 
fair and reasonable. Mrs M disagrees  so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ms complaint.
I agree  that Co-op Banks response of refunding the account fees from July 2015  when she 
became no longer eligible  for the accounts benefits was appropriate  and I have no need to 
look into that further. What I will consider is whether  the Co-op  Bank did anything  wrong 
when it upgraded  Mrs Ms account  from a free account to the PA in January 2004.
In looking at that I need firstly to consider two things; whether she knew she had a choice 
between taking out a fee free account or the PA; and whether Co-op Bank advised her to 
take out the PA or not. 
Mrs M says that she remembers nothing about upgrading her account and did not agree to 
do so. In my view, I think her memory  is mistaken and Ill explain why. 
She had previously held a fee free account  with Co-op Bank so I think  she knew  that fee free 
accounts were widely  available  from the Co-op Bank and other  financial institutions.  Co-op  
Bank has provided evidence that it sent her a welcome pack  for the PA and also notified her 
of a fee increase a few months later. The Co-op Bank had her correct address at the time, 
so I think its more likely than that she received these. The account fees appeared on her 
monthly statement  and although she has explained  that her eyesight  is not good,  I believe 
she had access to support for her correspondence then as now.  
So Im not a position to say I think its more likely than not that she knew  nothing about  the 
PA sale as I would have to in order to uphold her complaint  on this point.
Ref: DRN61952122It follows that I think when  Mrs M took out the PA she knew she had a choice and chose to 
take it out. 
Co-op Bank  says that this was a non-advised upgrade, by which  it means that it didnt  
recommend the upgrade to Mrs M personally  or advise  her to take out the PA. 
I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as records of 
discussions about Mrs Ms needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show  me clearly  
that Co-op Bank did make a personal  recommendation  to her. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mrs M and explaining the benefits of the PA, the Co-op Bank may 
have said or implied  that it was a good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as making a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Co-op  Banks sales 
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that Co-op Bank sold the PA to Mrs M 
on an information only basis.  
This means  Co-op Bank did not have to ensure that the PA was suitable for Mrs M, but it did 
have to provide  Mrs M with good  enough information about  it so she could  make  an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not.
I dont know what information Co-op Bank gave to Mrs M. But Co-op Bank  was trying to sell 
her the PA so I think its more likely  than not that it gave a substantial  verbal explanation of the 
product and then followed  this up with detailed documentation.
The PA benefits  included worldwide travel insurance; 50% off hotel breaks, BBC worldwide 
titles and flower purchases; and substantial discounts on electrical goods, theatre trips, wine 
purchase, and media subscriptions.  It also offered preferential rates on overdrafts. 
At the time of the PA sale Mrs M says she was travelling up to 3 times a year. So I can see 
how the travel insurance would have been of interest to her. And I think  its likely some  of the 
other benefits wouldve been  of interest  to her too. So I think  its more likely than not that she 
was aware of enough of the PAs benefits for her to decide to take them out.
Therefore in my view even if Co-op Bank didnt provide Mrs M with all the information  about 
the PA I think its more likely than not Mrs M wouldve chosen  to take it out anyway. As this 
was an information  only sale, it was then up to Mrs M if, and how,  she used the benefits.
Mrs M has mentioned that she has poor vision and is registered  disabled so Ive considered  
if the travel  insurance wouldnt  have  covered  her. The policy excluded pre-existing medical 
conditions. But I think its more likely than not that if she had contacted  the policy provider, 
she wouldve been able to use the policy either for free or with a small additional premium for 
her situation  consistent  with other  insurers in the market. So Mrs M would still have made  
the main saving on her travel insurance  and not lost out.
So overall, although I know this will be disappointing  for Mrs M, I think its more likely than 
not that Co-op Bank provided Mrs M with sufficient information to make  an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the PA, and Mrs M chose to take it out.  And there wasnt anything  
that Co-op Bank didnt tell her that wouldve caused her not to do so. 
Ref: DRN61952123my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Richard Hill
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195212