K820x#14complaint
Mr U has complained about his home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) as it 
failed to set up a claim for him and he feels  a staff member spoke to him in an 
unprofessional manner.
background
Mr U called RSA (call 1) as some water damage  had occurred at his home affecting his 
kitchen. The RSA representative took details  from Mr U and said shed contact traders  the 
following day to get an assessment visit organised.  This didnt occur.  
Mr U spoke to another RSA representative  (call 2) (four days  after the first call)and  was told 
someone else would call him back.  The call back didnt occur.  Mr U then spoke to another 
representative (call 3) (after a bank holiday and a total of six working days after the first call). 
The claim progressed from here but Mr U complained as he felt the third representative had 
spokenin a disrespectful and derogatory manner throughout the entire  call.
A team leader  listened to the calls between its representatives  and Mr U. She spoke with 
Mr U on the phone (call 4). Mr U says she apologised for the way the calls were handled. 
She then wrote to Mr U and offered £25 compensation.  In the letter  she said:  I can now 
confirm that I have now listened to both telephone conversations [first and third call] and 
apologise for the way that your claim has been handled.
Mr U remained  unhappy and RSA wrote to him. It acknowledged it had caused delays by 
failing to set the claim up properly. And that it had failed to call him back as promised.  It said 
it would  pay a further £25 compensation. The letter came from the customer relations team 
but didnt name an individual  author.
Mr U was still unhappy and complained  to us. He said hed asked for the call with the team  
leader to be listened to as theyd accepted the way hed been  spoken to had been  
unprofessional. However, RSA had said the call was unavailable. He felt the final response 
had been wrong  to say hed suggested  derogatory  comments had been made; he said his 
issue was the manner of the representative,  not the words theyd used. He noted  that the 
letter from RSA offering further  compensation hadnt identified its author which he felt was 
unprofessional. He also pointed out that RSA had accepted it had let him down in a number 
of ways.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She noted that RSA had caused  some delay 
regarding the claim but felt the £50 compensation offered fairly and reasonably made  up for 
that. She didnt think the tone of the call Mr U was concerned about  had been  
unprofessional. She noted that the call with the manager wasnt available as RSA dont 
record managers calls.
Mr U remained  unhappy, he felt we hadnt addressed everything and he maintained that the 
tone during the third call was inappropriate.  He said if he hadnt followed things up the claim 
would never  have been set up. He said no-one had taken ownership of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN63009312my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to make 
RSA pay any further compensation to Mr U.
Ive considered everything Mr U has told us and listened to the two calls that are available  
(calls 1 and 3). Im aware that in respect  of Mr Us concerns over the way he was spoken to 
this relates to call 3.
Making an assessment  as to the tone or the way someone is spoken to is a subjective issue.  
Different people will interpret tone in different ways. Having heard the call I know  the handler 
did interrupt Mr U on occasion, talking  over him. I can understand why Mr U is dissatisfied 
with the way he was spoken  to and it may be that the team leader had the same  view as me 
(as that call isnt recorded though  I cant know what was actually said). But I can also see 
why RSAs complaint  handler, after the team leader escalated the complaint, and even our 
investigator, thought the call handler was professional but assertive. 
Its also clear  to me that RSA failed to initially  log Mr Us claim and this did cause a delay of 
several days. He had to call it back and it then failed once more  to provide a further 
promised call back. I can fully understand why Mr U became so frustrated with RSA.  
It does seem as though  lots of people were  involved in Mr Us claim and complaint. I can see 
one letter wasnt signed by a named individual. I also understand from Mr U that he is 
frustrated that the team  leaders call with him wasnt recorded. In respect  of that call though  I 
can understand RSAs  approach in this respect; team  leaders  often  discuss  sensitive 
information about staff members and so recording their calls could be an issue. But this 
service doesnt get involved  with the way an insurer carries out its business. Nor do we 
punish insurers or fine them for any failings found. Nor do we have the power  to consider 
how an insurer handles a complaint  such as by not naming the author of a complaint  
response letter.
I do think RSA let Mr U down  though in respect of how it handled his claim. Im satisfied 
though that £50 fairly and reasonably compensates Mr U for the upset caused. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6300931