K821x#15complaint
W, a limited company, complains about  XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limiteds handling 
of a claim under its commercial buildings insurance policy.
background
W is represented in this complaint  by Mr P, one of its directors.  W has a commercial 
buildings insurance  policy with XL Catlin. Mr P is also an occupant of one of the flats at the 
insured property.
After an escape  of water from an upstairs flat which caused damage to his own flat, Mr P put 
in a claim on Ws policy.
XL Catlin accepted liability.  There  were  a number of discussions between Mr P and XL 
Catlin about how and when the repairs should  be carried  out.
Mr P is unhappy about delays in the repair work. He says repairs that should have taken 
weeks in fact took several months.
He also says that delays in the stripping out of the property and failures  on XL Catlins part to 
take timely  preventative measures led to black mould growing  in the room affected. Mr P 
says this has had a significant impact  on his health.
Mr P complained to XL Catlin. They accepted there had been avoidable delays  although 
they thought Mr P was partly responsible for the overall delay in completing  the repairs.
They agreed to pay Mr P £500  compensation for the delays.  And they agreed  without  
accepting any fault  to pay Mr P £3,250  to acknowledge  the possible impact  the delays had 
on his health.
Mr P wasnt  happy with that outcome,  so he complained to us. Our investigator looked  into it 
and thought the compensation for the delays should  be increased by a further £500.
Neither Mr P nor XL Catlin agreed and the case was referred  to me for a final decision.
Because I disagreed with the outcome our investigator suggested, I decided to issue  a 
provisional decision before I make  my final decision.  This allowed  both parties an opportunity  
to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision  which  is our services  last word  
on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to say is that the repairs have now been completed.  The remaining 
issue is what Mr P thought were avoidable  delays caused by XL Catlins  handling of 
the claim  and the impact thats had on Mr Ps health.
Ref: DRN65522272I know Mr P will be disappointed by this, but Im not minded to uphold  his complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
The insurance policy under which the claim was made is a commercial policy and the 
insured is W, a limited company.
W is an eligible complainant because  its a micro-enterprise. Its turnover and number 
of employees doesnt exceed the limit set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) rules which govern our jurisdiction.
So, W can ask us to look into alleged  errors  on the part of XL Catlin.  And W can 
expect that if we identify  any errors, well put W back in the position it would have 
been in had those errors  not occurred.
However, when we come to the question of compensation for trouble and upset, W  
as a limited company  is in a different position  to an individual  complainant.
W can be inconvenienced   if its (not Mr Ps) activities  were  impeded or obstructed in 
some way as a result of the errors made  by XL Catlin. And in that case, W can be 
compensated for the inconvenience.
However, by definition, W cant experience pain, suffering or distress.  And we cant  
compensate W (the insured) for any pain,  suffering  or distress  experienced by its 
directors.
So, we cant  compensate W (the complainant  in this case) for the alleged effect 
XL Catlins  handling of the claim has had on Mr Ps health.
Nor can we compensate W for Mr Ps time, effort and/or frustration in dealing  with the 
claim. Unless this has impacted on the companys business and activities   and 
inconvenienced it (the company).
At present, I cant see any evidence  to suggest W has been impacted in any way by 
delays in the repairs or by XL Catlins handling of the claim. Indeed, W appears not to 
carry out any day-to-day business activity  which could  be inconvenienced.
If there is any such evidence to suggest  W has been inconvenienced, Mr P should 
provide it in response to this provisional  decision.
Im very much aware that we should  have explained this position  to Mr P well before 
now. Id like to apologise to Mr P for that. And Id like to wish him all the very best in 
dealing with his current health problems.
But, I cant require XL Catlin to compensate Mr P for any trouble  and upset hes 
personally experienced as a result of any errors  in their handling of Ws claim. And 
Im satisfied they have  now carried out the required repairs  to Ws insured property.
Bearing in mind that W is the insured  and the complainant in this case - I dont have 
to decide whether the mould caused  Mr Ps health  problems. And its not for me to 
comment on whether XL Catlin  pay Mr P the £3,750  theyd previously offered. Thats  
entirely a matter for them.
Ref: DRN65522273And on that basis, I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision
XL Catlin didnt provide any further  information  or comment in response to my provisional 
decision.
Mr P did provide detailed  further comment.  Its fair to say that he doesnt  agree with my 
provisional decision. He made several  points,  which Ill try to summarise accurately.
Mr P says he complained  to us as an individual leaseholder  tenant  of his flat and not on 
behalf of W, the company which is jointly owned  by all the residents of the building. So, my 
starting point  that the complaint is made by W - is mistaken.
He says the residents of the building have made a number of previous insurance  claims  all 
relating to water damage. 
Mr P thinks  my decision  if it stands would have serious repercussions for many leaseholders 
because they might find themselves denied a route of appeal in serious disputes with their 
insurers.
Finally, Mr P was understandably keen to stress the effect he says the delays  in the handling  
of the claim have had on him. 
He says he was without a bedroom / study for 11 months. He says he had to have extra  
work carried out even  after the repairs carried out by XL Catlin were complete. And he says 
his lungs have  been permanently damaged by contact with the black mould which developed 
in the damaged room.
Hes also said out that the broker who arranged Ws policy was unhappy with XL Catlin and 
has terminated their relationship.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive carefully considered  the points 
Mr P made in his response to my provisional decision.
I know this will disappoint Mr P but I havent changed my mind about the outcome of this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I fully understand  what Mr P says about  the impact this issue has had. I know  the room was 
out of use for a long time  and longer than was necessary. I know Mr P believes some  of 
the repairs werent carried out well. And I know Mr P believes the mould has had an effect 
on his lungs. 
However, none of that means that Im entitled  to ignore the objective facts relating to the 
case. Mr P says he made the complaint to us on his own behalf, not on behalf of W. But its 
an objective fact that W are the insured party under  the contract of insurance with XL Catlin.
Ref: DRN65522274To put it bluntly Mr P can complain, as a director, on behalf of W  the customer for the 
insurance. Or he cant complain at all. He  as an individual - is not a customer for the 
financial service XL Catlin are providing and about which this complaint is being made.
The rules  which govern our service  are called the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules  and 
theyre set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook.
DISP 2.7.1 says we can only deal with complaints made by or on behalf of an eligible 
complainant. This is then further defined in DISP 2.7.6R, which lists the relationships  an 
individual or entity  must have with a business  in order  to be considered an eligible 
complainant. 
Typically, complaints fall within the first of the relationships in this list. Namely,  that the 
complainant is (or was) a customer  of the business being complained about. As Ive said,  
Mr P is not a customer of XL Catlin, W is.
None of the other relationships listed in DISP 2.7.6R apply to Mr P - most for obvious 
reasons. Sub-section 6 says we may consider a complaint where:
 the complainant  is a person for whose  benefit a contract of insurance  was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent.
This is further defined  in the rules, but the sub-section is intended to cover,  for example, 
policies taken out by employers to protect their employees in times of ill health.  
In those cases, policies are clear about who the potential benefits  will go to and in what 
circumstances. And the potential beneficiaries  are clearly defined.
In this case, Ws policy is clearly intended to provide cover  and benefits  for it (W) and it 
alone. The policy  explicitly  requires any third parties  with an interest to be listed  in the 
schedule (Conditions  section, p.13). And there are no third parties  listed in the schedule.
So, Mr P cant  make  a complaint to us on his own behalf. The insurance contract is with W 
and the benefits of the policy are for W. It is a commercial property policy.
Its not for me to comment on the advantages  and disadvantages  of insurance being 
arranged in this way for leaseholder  tenants. I assume there  are clear advantages, or no-one  
would arrange  insurance this way.
I disagree with Mr P about the repercussions for leaseholder tenants if my provisional 
decision stands. 
First, leaseholder tenants can insure themselves personally against  damage to the property 
they live in, if they wish to do so. They are not left without a means  to obtain the kind of 
cover which would usually  be available for individual  householders.
Second, the insurance W has does mean that XL Catlin are required to carry out repairs  to 
any insured damage   as they did in this case.  And we can look into complaints from W and 
ensure XL Catlin treat W fairly and reasonably  as we did in this case.
So, W does have insurance cover. And W is entitled  to complain to us if they think the 
insurer is not meeting  its responsibilities under that contract. 
Ref: DRN65522275I note Mr Ps assertion  that other claims about  escapes of water within the building  have 
been accepted. But so was the claim about his flat  and the necessary repairs were  carried  
out.
Its irrelevant to my consideration whether the broker in this case  terminated their 
relationship with XL Catlin. Although I do note that XL Catlin say they chose to terminate the 
relationship with the broker. I dont intend  to get into the middle  of that dispute  Im 
considering Ws complaint  against  XL Catlin, not XLs Catlins relationships with third parties.
In summary,  I have to repeat that Im very sorry Mr P experienced these problems after the 
unfortunate escape of water in his building. And I understand his frustration about the 
situation.
But Im satisfied XL Catlin have  repaired  the damage in Mr Ps flat. And I cant choose to 
award Mr P compensation for his pain, distress or suffering in this case in defiance  of the 
rules which govern our service. 
I would like to apologise again to Mr P for our failure to identify much sooner  the full 
repercussions of the fact that the customer for the insurance contract was W and not Mr P. I 
know it must have been frustrating for Mr P to hear about this so late in our handling of the 
complaint and I am very sorry  about  that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019,.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6552227