K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave him incorrect  
information about its prize  draw.  Mr A says that because of this he has lost the chance  to win 
the draw.
background
Mr A was twice given wrong information  about  the Halifax prize draw.  He was told he was 
registered for this but in fact he wasnt. And he missed out on entry to two prize  draws 
because of this. Halifax has since given him the correct information about how to register  
going forward and it paid him £50 compensation for its error.
Mr A wants  the £5,000  prize draw winnings as compensation as he thinks  he couldve won 
the draw but hes said he will accept half of this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but felt that the £50 offered was fair for the 
inconvenience caused. He didnt agree with Mr A that he should  be paid a sum in line with 
the winnings  from the prize draw.
Mr A disagreed as he feels he couldve won and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr As complaint is that he thinks  hes due compensation in line with the 
potential winnings of the prize draw  that he thought he was entered  into. Halifax  has paid 
him compensation for the wrong information it gave him and the investigator felt that this was 
fair.
Mr A thinks  that he couldve won the prize  draw and technically  Mr A is right, he couldve 
won it. But we cant be sure he wouldve won the draw. When we cant be sure of what 
wouldve happened, we work on the balance of probabilities  whats most likely to have 
happened.
Reports suggest that the approximate chance of winning a prize in Halifaxs prize draw  is 1 
in 2000. Whilst  this isnt an exact  figure  and isnt verified as accurate, I think it is fair to say 
that on the balance of probabilities Mr A most  likely wouldnt have  won the draw on either  
occasion. 
So I cannot agree  with Mr As view that at least half the prize draw  winnings is fair 
compensation for the incorrect information  he was given about  the draw.
Halifax paid Mr A £50 in recognition of the incorrect information provided. And it has 
explained to Mr A how to enter the draw  going forward. I think  this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and I dont think any additional compensation is due to Mr A.
So it follows  that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN67718722my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6771872