K821x#15Ms M complains that Rathbone Investment Management Limited invested her ISA and SIPP 
funds in investments  that were too high risk.
background
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 28 April 2020.  A copy is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.
In response to the provisional decision, Rathbone reviewed its files and produced revised  
figures and calculations for Ms Ms portfolio. 
Ms M says Rathbones latest figures for the PEP and ISA investments are close enough to 
hers to agree them (including subsequent investments and withdrawals from the PEP and 
ISA funds).
Ms M says she hasnt been  able to reconcile the latest figures Rathbone provided for the 
SIPP. Rathbones total withdrawals are higher than those in Ms Ms records.  But Ms M says 
this may in part be due to additional investments and withdrawals being made through a 
separate pension  trustee account, together  with fees paid to the pension  trustee.
Ms M says the discrepancies  arent great enough  to produce a negative  number for the 
difference between  the index valuation and the valuation at 31 March 2016. So Ms M doesnt 
intend to carry  out further analysis of the figures.
Ms M made  further representations in response to the provisional decision. In summary she 
said that:
She wanted me to reconsider (amongst other things) her risk and investment strategy 
instructions to Rathbone that shed supplied with her original complaint. Ms M said 
this evidence demonstrated that a notional valuation of her portfolio based  on 
income, for comparison purposes in the redress calculation isnt appropriate.  Shed 
wanted capital  growth  to increase  her investment  funds before she retired, and then 
a balance between  growth and income  when she started to draw income.
She didnt consider  Rathbones losses and fees should be offset by the profits made  
from her own investments.
She didnt consider  the suggested compensation properly reflected the significant 
worry caused by Rathbones actions, or the time Ms M had to spend  pursuing her 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M is willing to accept Rathbones latest figures  for the purpose of valuing her portfolio. 
Both parties  also agree that for the purpose of measuring redress,  the end date for the 
valuation should  be 31 March 2016.
But I need to decide the basis  on which any redress  should be measured. Ms M doesnt  
consider measuring  the portfolios performance using an income-based  index is appropriate, 
Ref: DRN66211632because this doesnt properly reflect her investment objectives. She says shed wanted 
capital growth before  she retired,  and then a balance between  growth  and income when she 
started to draw income.  Ive noted  everything Ms M has said.
I can see that in the 2004 Client Agreement Ms M signed, she said her investment objective 
was Capital growth priority and that her risk profile  was described as Medium.
In 2007, when Ms M was approaching retirement,  notes on Rathbones member profile form 
for the SIPP say :
Investments  retain capital, avoid further  capital losses.
Retire as soon as pension income from SIPP fund allows.
Avoid investments structured on capital losses
Avoid high riskequities.
So it seems  at this stage Ms Ms investment objectives were  changing, and she wanted to 
reduce her exposure  to risk as she got closer to retirement.
Client agreements for the SIPP signed  in 2009  and 2013 also recorded Ms Ms investment 
objective as Balance between  capital  growth and income  and her risk profile  as Medium.
I take the point  she makes about  what she wanted  to achieve with her pension investments.  
But from what Ive seen,  it seems  to me that from at least 2007 the amount of risk Ms M was 
prepared to take with her investments reduced.  
With that in mind, Im satisfied that the suggested  index to determine the portfolios notional 
performance is suitable for Ms Ms risk profile. It works on the basis that the investor was 
prepared to take some risk to achieve  their investment objectives. And I consider thats  
reasonable in Ms Ms case.
Im not persuaded that Ms M wanted to take more risk with her investments as she 
approached retirement.  So for the reasons I explained in my provisional  decision, it wouldnt 
be appropriate to measure the potential  performance of the portfolio using a higher-risk 
index. 
And just by way of clarification, although the index  is referred  to as an income index, it 
nevertheless maintains  a balance of higher risk equities and lower risk government bonds.  
So I think its broadly  representative of the type of risk that Ms M was prepared to take.
Ref: DRN66211633Portfolio profit
Ms M considers Rathbones losses and fees shouldnt be offset  by the profits made from her 
own investments. But for the reasons explained in my provisional decision,  I still dont 
consider it would be appropriate  to depart from our usual approach to assessing potential  
loss on the portfolio. 
That means that, in this instance, I consider it appropriate to measure the performance of the 
portfolio as a whole,  rather than just those investments  that made a loss. 
Compensation
I can appreciate Ms Ms disappointment with the poor service she considers she received 
from Rathbone. 
Im also mindful that some of the information  provided by Rathbone to Ms M and this service 
during the course of the complaint has been  inaccurate. I dont underestimate the worry this 
will have caused Ms M, or the additional  work it will have created for her in pursuing the 
complaint and checking that the latest  figures were correct. 
When I take these points into account, I consider  its appropriate to increase compensation 
to £300. I realise  Ms M is still unlikely to consider  this amount is enough. But our 
compensation awards arent designed to punish a business  rather, they are meant  to 
reflect the impact the issues have had on the individual  consumer. And Im satisfied that this 
amount is appropriate  on this occasion.
fair compensation
I therefore remain of the view that the calculation to determine whether compensation is due 
to Ms M has been undertaken  appropriately   and that this has produced a no loss result.  
But my view is that the additional payment in respect of the worry and inconvenience caused 
should be increased to £300  for the reasons given above.
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Rathbone  Investment Management  
Limited to pay compensation to Ms M in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66211634APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms M complains that Rathbone Investment Management Limited invested her ISA and SIPP funds in 
investments that were too high risk.
background
Rathbone has managed  Ms Ms ISA and SIPP funds on a discretionary basis since 2004. 
Ms M says shes always been a low to medium risk investor. When  her fund manager left Rathbone  in 
2015, she discovered that a significant proportion of her funds were invested in equities  and so 
exposed to a higher  risk than Ms M was willing to take. Ms M had suffered losses on a number of 
investments made by the fund manager.
Ms M considered Rathbone had failed to invest her money in line with her risk profile. Rathbone  didnt 
uphold Ms Ms complaint, and said she hadnt suffered any loss on the overall portfolio.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should be upheld. He concluded the investments within  
Ms Ms portfolio were  too high risk for an investor with a medium attitude  to risk. But he looked at the 
performance of the funds  against how they wouldve performed  if theyd been invested in medium risk 
investments. On this basis  the adjudicator  didnt find Ms Ms funds  had suffered  any loss as a result of 
Rathbones inappropriate investments. 
The adjudicator said Rathbone should pay £150 to Ms M for the inconvenience caused, but he didnt 
think it needed  to do anything else.
Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions. She said, in summary that:
1.Rathbones calculations didnt take account of a PEP transfer  made to her ISA soon after she 
moved her business  to Rathbone in 2004.
2.The portfolio performance calculation should be measured at 31 March 2016, rather than 31 
March 2015. Ms M said most  of the restructuring  of her portfolio  took place  between 
November 2015 and March 2016,  so she considered the March 2015 performance date used 
was inaccurate.
3.She didnt  agree  with the performance index used for the calculation, and considered  a 
growth index  was more appropriate.
4.Rathbones calculation of the portfolios  profit was inaccurate because it took account  of 
investments shed transferred to it in 2004. Ms M considered these  assets should  be 
disregarded, because it was the investments  chosen by Rathbone  that had contributed  to 
losses within  her portfolio.
5.She didnt  accept  the proposed  compensation of £150.
Rathbone said it agreed with the adjudicators conclusions.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
Ref: DRN66211635my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Rathbone accepts that it managed Ms Ms portfolio in a manner that wasnt appropriate to her attitude  
to risk. So I need to determine whether Ms Ms funds  suffered any loss as result of Rathbones 
inappropriate investment management. 
Our approach  is to look at whats likely to have happened if Ms Ms investments had been managed 
in line with her attitude to risk, which  was medium. 
Ms M has told my why she thinks Rathbones redress calculations are inaccurate,  and Ive thought 
carefully about everything shes said. Ive set out below  my conclusions  on the points Ms M has 
made.
 
Appropriate date for measuring performance of portfolio
Rathbone measured the portfolios performance as at 31 March 2015, as if it had been structured  
based on a medium attitude to risk. But Ms M says most of the restructuring took place between  
November 2015 and March  2016. So she considers the 31 March  2016 is a more appropriate  date to 
use.
Having looked at Rathbones  cash  transaction histories for the SIPP and ISA, Im inclined  to agree 
with Ms M. I can see there were some transactions earlier in 2015, but it seems most  of the sales and 
purchases took place during  the period Ms M has referred to.  
So Im satisfied that Rathbone should measure the performance of Ms Ms portfolio  using the end 
date of 31 March 2016.
Valuation index
Ms M says her portfolio  was managed on a growth basis from 2004  to 2015. So she considers 
performance should be measured against  a growth index. But as Ive already said,  our approach  is to 
look at how her portfolio  wouldve performed if it had been invested in line with her medium  attitude to 
risk. 
The adjudicator asked Rathbone to measure  the performance of Ms Ms portfolio against the FTSE 
UK Private Investors total income  return  index. He considered  this was a fair measure  for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  I think  thats reasonable, and Im satisfied 
that the index Rathbone has used is appropriate given  Ms Ms attitude to risk. 
Im not persuaded  that a growth index  should be used, as this is more appropriate for someone willing 
to take greater risks with their investments.
Portfolio profit
Ms M says most of the profit  made by her portfolio is derived from the assets she transferred to 
Rathbone in 2004. She also refers to specific shares she held in a previous employers  firm, which  
she says she planned to sell gradually  over time.
Ms M says many of the investment decisions made by Rathbone resulted in significant  losses to her 
portfolio. She thinks its unfair  that the redress calculations take account  of the assets she transferred 
to Rathbone.
I can understand why Ms M might take that view.  But our approach to redress aims  to put the 
customer into the position  they wouldve been in if the error by the business  hadnt been made. So in 
Ref: DRN66211636this case,  Rathbone shouldve  managed  Ms Ms portfolio on the basis of a medium attitude to risk. But 
that wouldve been the management of her whole portfolio, which is why all of her investments are 
included in the calculation.
Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable to depart from our usual approach in this 
complaint. So Im satisfied  that the performance of all of the investments in Ms Ms portfolio should be 
measured against the benchmark.  
Rathbone Calculations
Ms M says Rathbones calculations to date dont take account of a PEP transfer made  to her ISA 
soon after she moved her business to Rathbone in 2004. 
I asked Rathbone for clarification of its figures. It provided information which it said demonstrated the 
addition of stock and cash from the PEP to Ms Ms account in 2004. It also said the stock receipts 
formed part of the total amounts shown  on an ISA interim valuation statement generated in June 
2018.
Ive noted everything Rathbone has said. But having reviewed the information its provided, I still dont 
think its possible to easily identify the PEP assets within  its calculations.
In light of what Ive said about the way in which I consider Ms Ms portfolio  should  be revalued, I think 
it would be reasonable for Rathbone to provide a new calculation. The revised calculation should  
show the investment amounts and values  as at 31 March  2016,  based on the FTSE UK Private 
Investors total income return index.  
Within the calculation, Rathbone should identify which assets  were  transferred from Ms Ms PEP in 
2004, and which of those  assets,  if any, have been withdrawn  or sold since that time. 
Rathbone should provide  its revised calculation to this service and Ms M. Once Ms M has had an 
opportunity to consider the revised  calculation, I will take account of any further comments  she may 
have before issuing a final decision.
Compensation
Ms M didnt accept the suggested compensation of £150. But I think that amount  is fair and 
reasonable when I take account of awards  by this service in complaints of a similar nature. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. 
Rathbone Investment Management Limited should produce  a revised calculation of the value of Ms 
Ms portfolio to 31 March  2016, in line with the instructions above. 
Once the calculation is available (and subject to any further comments  Ms M may have on the 
calculation) I will assess the extent to which  the portfolio  has suffered any loss, and whether any 
further redress is payable. 
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6621163