K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs T applied  for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint because Santander recommended  the 
policy to them. But I dont  think  it was right for them.  This is because Mrs T had a medical 
condition when they bought the policy (diagnosed as a child) which wouldnt have  been  
covered. The condition had regularly caused her to take time off work and seen her 
occasionally admitted to hospital. As such I think it wouldve  been  important to Mr and Mrs T 
that the medical condition be covered. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs T wouldve bought the policy if Santander had made clear it wasnt  
right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs T have lost out because of what Santander did wrong.  
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about the sales  
process  that Mrs Ts medical condition wouldve been discussed. In effect, Santander is 
saying that Mr and Mrs T took out the policy knowing Mrs Ts medical condition  wouldnt be 
covered. But Santander  has provided no evidence that shows this was discussed. Or that 
the sales process in place  at the time wouldve required  such  a discussion.  The onus is on 
Santander to provide  evidence of this. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
assume that this happened despite  the lack of evidence. Based on the evidence available  to 
me, it appears that Santander recommended an unsuitable policy  to Mr and Mrs T. So I still 
think I should uphold  the complaint. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
Ref: DRN67460272If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6746027