K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is linked to their mortgage arrangements with Lloyds Bank  PLC. 
Theyve said that when  they took a further  advance in 2002 they were  told they had to take 
an additional  buildings insurance policy with Lloyds, despite having already taken a policy  to 
cover the property alongside their original mortgage advance.
background
When Mr and Mrs M bought their home in 1989 they took out a mortgage  with Lloyds. The 
account number  ended  in 3382. Mr and Mrs M arranged  a property insurance policy with 
Lloyds insurance  arm at that time too. The premium for the policy  was collected with the 
mortgage payment  and passed on to the insurance  arm.
In 1991 Mr and Mrs M took a further  advance. The further advance  was given a separate  
account number  ending in 1985. There were two sub-accounts associated with this account 
 one for the amount  of the advance (01)  and the second for the £99 arrangement  fee 
(99).
In April 2002 Mr and Mrs M applied for another further advance.  The amount borrowed was 
added to the existing further advance account ending in 1985 as a separate sub-account 
(02). Mr and Mrs M have said they were told by the bank manager they would only be 
granted the advance if they took another property insurance policy.  However, they werent  
given any information  about the policy, nor were they told why they needed to have the 
policy.
A few months later Lloyds decided to amalgamate the further advance  account (1985) into 
the main mortgage  account as follows:
The existing debt held under  account  3382 was designated as sub-account  01 under that 
same number.
The existing debt (for the arrangement fee) held under account 3382  as sub-account 99 
was maintained as it was.
Sub-account 01 and 99 on account  1985  were joined together and became  
sub account 02 on account 3382
Sub-account 02 on account 1985  became sub-account 03 on account 3382.
The account  ending  in 1985 was closed at that time.  One direct debit was collected 
thereafter for the new amalgamated mortgage  account and the property insurance policy  
arranged in 1989.
Mr and Mrs M have  provided a letter from February  2004 detailing what their new mortgage 
payment would be following an interest rate change. It documented the amount that would 
be charged for each  sub-account, including confirming that £42.33 was included  in the 
amount payable for sub-account 01 (the original  mortgage debt) for a property insurance 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs M made enquiries to Lloyds about  PPI which  developed into questions about  
buildings and contents insurance and what the various sub-accounts  were  on their 
mortgage. This evolved into their complaint in early 2019 about a mis-sold property 
insurance policy.
Ref: DRN63432262Lloyds considered the complaint had been  made too late. However,  it did confirm the only 
property insurance  policy  linked to the mortgage was linked to sub-account  01, which  is the 
one Mr and Mrs M acknowledge having chosen  to take in 1989. Sub-account 02 didnt have 
a policy  linked to it. As such, Lloyds rejected the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Lloyds  response  and referred their complaint to this 
service.  Initially  Lloyds  objected to this service  considering the complaint because it had 
been made too late. However, following discussions  with one of my colleagues,  Lloyds 
dropped its objection. As such, one of our investigators considered  the merits of Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint. She didnt recommend the complaint was upheld as there  was no evidence  of 
an insurance policy being taken out in 2002. She also explained the additional  concerns 
Mr and Mrs M raised during their correspondence  with the investigator, such as them  being  
concerned about  the arrangement fee, should be referred to Lloyds in the first instance.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions. They provided copies of their 
early correspondence  with Lloyds detailing that they were questioning where sub-account 02 
on account 3382 had come from. They  reiterated their concerns about  the handling of their 
mortgage and the business not being clear. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2020. In that document I set out my conclusions  
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt.
I note they were concerned that Lloyds  couldnt  provide explanations about what  happened  
at various points. It is unfortunate that Lloyds was unable to do so, but not entirely surprising 
due to the time that has passed  since the events complained  about.  The mortgage account  
ending 1985  was closed 17 years before Mr and Mrs Ms enquiries and that ending in 3382  
14 years  earlier. Lenders are only required to keep  records for six years  after an account is 
closed and as time progresses beyond that, records  will often become limited. I cant find 
Lloyds at fault for having limited records.  
However, the correspondence Mr and Mrs M themselves still had from the time filled in the 
gaps in Lloyds  information to allow me to provide the above explanation of what  happened 
with their mortgage accounts.  I hope  it clarifies events for them  and allays their concerns 
about something untoward  happening with their mortgage.
As I have detailed above, sub-account 02 on the account ending  3382 doesnt have 
buildings insurance  associated with it. The letter from 2004 details the policy is linked to sub-
account 01, not sub-account 02. There is no evidence  that a second property insurance 
policy was linked to the further  advance in 2002  and paid through  the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided a copy bank statement from 2003 which shows  they had a 
insurance policy with Lloyds to which they were paying £19.18. We have made  enquiries  to 
the insurance arm of Lloyds and it has confirmed that it cant  trace  a policy  based on the 
reference number  contained in the bank statement. It also provided  a list of all the policies 
and accounts  Mr and Mrs M have held with it and it still has a record of. There isnt a 
buildings or contents  policy on that list which corresponds  with the existence of an additional 
policy in 2003.  I cant explain  why that would  be, although it is possible the policy was 
cancelled during the 14-day cooling off period,  the premium refunded  and so the policy 
deemed not to have  existed and no records kept of it. Whatever the reason for Lloyds no 
longer having  records  of the policy detailed in the bank statement, unless Mr and Mrs M can 
provide further  evidence  about it, I cant consider the matter further.
Ref: DRN63432263I havent seen  anything in the evidence to show that Lloyds  did anything  wrong  in relation to 
its administration of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. Nor have I seen any evidence  that they were  
made to have an additional  property  insurance  policy when they took their further  advance  in 
2002.
In relation to any new complaint points Mr and Mrs M wish to be considered,  such as 
concerns about  application fees being included in the mortgage account, would need to be 
referred to Lloyds as a separate matter. What I would say at this point is that it is common  
for such fees to be added to the mortgage, but in general, the fees dont attract  interest and 
so it is simply  a case of the fee being  paid at redemption rather than at inception when 
consumers are usually  more financially constrained.
Both parties  confirmed they had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments in this case to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and in the 
absence of any further comment from either party,  I see no reason to alter my conclusions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 October  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343226