K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that DJS (UK) Limited  trading as Piggybank lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr L borrowed four loans from Piggybank between April 2017 and February 2018.  The first 
loan was a payday loan and all subsequent loans were instalment loans due to be repaid in 
five monthly instalments.
Some information about the loans  is as follows:
loan 
number start  dateloan 
amounthighest 
repaymentrepayment 
date
1 13/04/2017 £400 £448* 28/04/2017
2 04/05/2017 £1,500 £541 01/10/2017
3 05/10/2017 £1,500 £536.15 23/01/2018
4 02/02/2018 £1,500 £533.56 outstanding
*The loan agreement for this loan stated  that the full repayment due was £451.20.
When Mr L complained  to Piggybank about  all his loans, it didnt fully uphold his complaint, it 
said it thought  that Mr L had formed  a dependency on these loans by the time he borrowed 
loan 4. It agreed to refund  the interest  and charges  on loan four and apply this redress  to his 
outstanding balance. Mr L accepted this offer and then referred his complaint to this service 
saying he felt coerced  into accepting the offer. Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ls complaint 
and thought that Piggybanks search  of Mr Ls credit  file showed adverse information that 
should have alerted Piggybank to the likelihood of Mr L being unable to sustainably repay 
the loans. And so he recommended that Mr Ls complaint about all the loans should be 
upheld.
In response to the adjudication, Piggybank said that Mr L already accepted  its offer in full 
and final settlement; this service shouldnt be looking at his complaint further. Another one of 
our adjudicators considered Piggybanks argument  about its offer and thought that basis  of 
the offer wasnt clear  and that Piggybank hadnt  acted  in good faith in the way it handled 
Mr Ls offer and acceptance. And so she thought this wasnt  a complaint that should  be 
dismissed. 
Piggybank hasnt responded to this service on the merits of Mr Ls complaint and as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN63609002Piggybank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Piggybank should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Piggybank was required to establish  
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Piggybank says that before it lent any of the loans to Mr L; it searched his credit file and 
asked him about  his income and living expenses as well. Piggybank  said that it used a credit 
reference agency that can track information on the credit file in real time  which means that 
Piggybanks checks  were likely to show a reasonably  accurate  position of Mr Ls credit  file.
From the credit  file Mr L provided, I can see that he had a county court  judgement (CCJ) 
entered against him in February 2017   about two months before his first loan. This means 
that this CCJ was active throughout Mr Ls borrowing relationship with Piggybank. And given 
the credit  checks Piggybank says it carried out, I think  its likely to have found this CCJ entry 
on Mr Ls file.
Ref: DRN63609003Also, the results of the initial search Piggybank carried out showed that Mr L had four 
defaults recorded on his file, two of which were payday loans. I think this number of adverse 
entries of Mr Ls credit  file which Piggybank knew about or ought to have known about  
suggests that Mr L had problems  managing his money  and it was unlikely he was in a 
position to sustainably repay  the loans.
I think this is borne out by Mr Ls need  to quickly borrow  again after repaying a previous loan 
and his inability  to repay loan 4.
For the reasons  set out above, Piggybank  as a responsible lender shouldnt  have lent Mr L 
any of the loans. And because Mr L was lent loans he couldnt afford, hes lost out as a 
result and Piggybank  needs to put things right.
putting things right  what Piggybank needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
from what I can see, Mr L hasnt made  any repayments towards loan 4 but if he has 
made any repayments, then those  should  be treated as repayments  towards  the 
capital. And if theres still a balance outstanding, Piggybank may choose to offset  the 
outstanding principal amount from the redress amount,  ensuring  Mr L doesnt pay 
more than the principal amount borrowed on loan 4;
any surplus after the offset should  be paid to Mr L;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 4 from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Piggybank to take off tax from this interest. Piggybank must  give 
Mr L a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint. DJS (UK) Limited should pay 
Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6360900