K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
The policy covered Mr T only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time the 
policy was sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs T aware the PPI was optional and gain their consent before 
adding it to their mortgage.  I cant be certain what was said at the time the policy was sold 
but Lloyds has provided a copy  of the paperwork available from the time. Mr T completed 
and signed an application separate from the mortgage to apply for the policy.  With this in 
mind I think he would have known it wasnt a condition of the mortgage.  I also think  he chose 
to have it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs T if something went wrong. It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said - including what  theyve  said about 
being pressured into taking the policy. But for me to uphold this complaint based  on this I 
would need to see persuasive  evidence  that this is likely to be what happened,  which  I 
havent seen.
Mr and Mrs T have  also explained that they had a claim declined under the policy. While I 
appreciate this would be disappointing  for them I dont think it means the policy was mis-
sold. From  the information I have  seen the policy was suitable for them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Ref: DRN66632862Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6663286