K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Santander during a meeting at one of its 
branches. At the same  time Mr and Mrs E took out PPI to cover  Mr Es income and protect 
their mortgage payments  in the event  Mr E lost his job.
The policy cost £15.17 a month and it provided  a benefit of £352  per month to approximately  
match Mr and Mrs Es monthly mortgage payment.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for unemployment for up to 12 
months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Es PPI policy ended in 2004.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Es complaint thought  the PPI wouldve been  of 
limited use to them. He didnt think Mr and Mrs E had a need for the policy and would not 
have bought it if Santander  had advised  them appropriately. Santander disagrees, so Mr and 
Mrs Es complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Santander says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr and Mrs E with 
enough information about the policy so they could make an informed decision about  it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for them  based  on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
Having looked  at the evidence Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Santander had a duty to assess  whether the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs E. From what  
Ive seen, I dont  think  Santander did this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think if 
Santander had advised Mr and Mrs E appropriately, they wouldnt have bought  the policy.
I say this because  Mr and Mrs E have told us that at the time of the sale they had 
approximately £20,000 in savings, the potential cash value of a £60,000 endowment  policy, 
and Mr E had a £450 a month  pension  income  from his previous employer.
Mr and Mrs E say that Mr E was given a £40,000  lump sum and a £450  a month pension by 
his previous employer approximately two years before the sale.  I think  its more  likely than 
not that he was given  this as in the experience of this service,  it is a credible and plausible  
outcome from the type of work that he did. 
Ref: DRN63290052Mr and Mrs E say that at the time of sale in 2002 they were changing their type of mortgage,  
and it appears that this was from an endowment mortgage to a repayment mortgage. They 
say they had a £60,000  endowment  policy  which they had taken out with the previous 
mortgage on their property in 1991.  And the 2002  mortgage application  shows  they owed 
nothing on the previous  mortgage. So I find it credible and plausible  that they were taking out 
a £38,000 repayment mortgage  and still had half of Mr Es lump sum,  that is, approximately  
£20,000 left.  I also think  its credible and plausible and they were keeping  the endowment 
policy on as a savings  scheme. I dont  know  what the endowment policy  cash  in value 
wouldve been in 2002 but I think it would have been a substantial amount. And I can see 
from the mortgage application that Mrs E was earning a salary  of £9,000 a year.
So I think that in taking out a mortgage  in 2002 with repayments of £352 a month,  Mr and 
Mrs E were  in a position to cover their repayments  for a substantial period if Mr E had lost 
his job. And I think its more likely than not they would have coped financially for enough time 
for him to find another job. So I dont think that Mr and Mrs E had a need  for the PPI.
Santander says that Mr and Mrs E chose to take out only the employment PPI cover,  not the 
accident and sickness cover,  and that this indicates  that a discussion took place. I agree that 
this suggests  that a discussion did take place. But Santander were  advising Mr and Mrs E to 
take out the PPI and so should have found out what Mr and Mrs Es full financial 
circumstances were. I have no evidence to show that Santanders  financial assessment  went  
beyond the checks  needed for approving the mortgage. And, I think  for the reasons Ive 
given above that if Santander  had done a fuller assessment of their circumstances its more  
likely than not that it wouldnt have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. And I think  its 
more likely than not that if Mr and Mrs E had been  advised correctly they wouldnt have 
taken it out.
I think Mr and Mrs E have  lost out because  of what Santander has done  wrong  and so it 
should put things right.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs E in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Santander  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs E the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint and direct Santander UK Plc 
to put things right as Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN63290053Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329005