K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has been repeatedly  recording a default on 
his credit file in error. He asks that all the default  notices save one are removed.  
background 
In May 2015  Mr T entered into a five year conditional agreement with Moneybarn for a used 
car.  
Unfortunately, following  a change in Mr Ts circumstances, he stopped  making payments on 
the agreement  not long after taking  it out. Moneybarn issued a default notice to Mr T in 
October 2015. Mr T also incurred admin  charges on top of the outstanding credit.  
In November 2015 the agreement was terminated  and the car re-possessed. Mr T agreed to 
enter into a payment plan with Moneybarn and pay the outstanding  balance on his account 
at a reduced monthly rate. Mr T has been  paying  this reduced monthly rate since August 
2016. 
Moneybarn recorded  a default  on Mr Ts credit  file for this account. 
Mr T says that after applying for a mortgage  it was brought to his attention  that the 
information recorded on his credit file by Moneybarn was incorrect.  He says his credit file 
shows that Moneybarn  has recorded  several defaults under  the same  account and that he 
has missed payment markers. He complained to Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn didnt uphold  Mr Ts complaint. It said that the default notice sent to Mr T in 
October 2015 stated  that if he failed to make  payments under the agreement then it may 
register a default  with the Credit Reference Agencies. And as no payments were made the 
agreement was terminated in November 2015  in line with its terms and conditions. This was 
then registered  as a default on Mr Ts credit file. 
Moneybarn said it was under a duty to report accurate  and up to date information to the 
Credit Reference Agencies. And it was satisfied that what was reported aligned with Mr Ts 
payment history under the agreement.  Moneybarn said it didnt agree that amendments  
needed to be made.  
Mr T complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld.  He said that looking at Mr Ts credit file he could see that the default was 
registered in November 2015, but that no further  defaults had been registered on the same  
account. 
Our adjudicator explained that the default  would  show  for six years from when the default 
was issued. So this meant when Mr T logged into his credit file the account would show as a 
default but didnt mean  that Moneybarn  was registering a default each month.  
Mr T disagreed with our adjudicators view and the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69567382Mr T agrees that he defaulted in making  payments to his account  with Moneybarn and that 
this resulted in the agreement being terminated  in November 2015. Ive seen that from 
August 2016 Mr T has made monthly  payments  under a payment plan.
Moneybarn says that it registered Mr Ts default  with the credit reference agencies  following 
his default and that it had a legal obligation to do so. Mr T says it was, until recently, 
registering that default each month.  He has provided  a copy of his credit  file to show this.
Looking at a copy  of Mr Ts credit file I can see that the account with Moneybarn  is shown as 
Default since x November 2015 . Further  into the report  there  is then a tab that can be 
opened to Select an account  which  has been  opened for Moneybarn and this shows  that 
missed payments are recorded from August 2015  until November 2015. Each month  after 
November 2015  is shown as Default up until January 2019 (the date of the credit report). 
Ive seen that on this same report there  is at the end of the document a box headed 
Affected Accounts - latest missed payments  which lists Moneybarn  from November 2018 
until January 2019.
Looking at this credit report Im satisfied  that Moneybarn has registered  the default  for the 
correct date which is November 2015. The missed payments that appear under  the 
Moneybarn account  are for 2015  and so are also correct as they predate  the default notice. 
As a default remains on the record for six years  from the date of issue I cant  say that each 
month which shows the account  as defaulted is an error. And Moneybarn says it isnt 
reporting a new default each month. I have no reason  to doubt what  that what  Moneybarn 
says isnt try. I think its more likely that its the way the report is laid out, rather than anything  
Moneybarn is doing, that has resulted in the way the default information  has been  presented.
And as Moneybarn isnt making monthly  reports to the credit agency I also think the way the 
missed payments are recorded under the Affected Accounts section  is again  just how this 
report is recording the original default.  
Im satisfied that Moneybarn hasnt  recorded the wrong information  against Mr Ts credit  file 
and Im not requiring it take any action. Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6956738