K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC hasnt refunded  to them the full value of 
fraudulent transactions that have  been debited to their account. Mrs C says she noticed 
fraudulent payments on the account, going  several years back. She contacted Lloyds  in 
2019, but it only refunded the transactions which had occurred in the previous 13 months. 
background
The fraudulent transactions  were:
18 X £15.32   May 2012 to September 2013  made to O2 UK PBB
£15.00  October 2013  made to O2 UK PBB
9 X £13.00   November 2013  to July 2014   made to O2 UK PBB
6 X £13.00   August 2014 to January  2015  made to O2 UK MBB
£13.00  February 2015  made to O2 UK MBB (refunded  same month)
3 X £13.00   March 2015 to May 2015  made to O2 UK MBB
48 X £15.00   June 2015 to January  2019   made to O2 UK MBB
There was a credit received from O2 UK MBB  of £1.30 on 30 January 2019 and on 18 
February 2019, the fraud was reported to Lloyds.
Mrs C said she was checking  bank  account  statements online, in 2019, and noticed  there  
were two separate O2 transactions being debited from the account.  She initially  thought  
nothing of it but queried it with O2, which confirmed the payment to O2 UK MBB was 
fraudulent. It told Mrs C to contact her bank.  
Closer examination of historical statements showed  that Mr and Mrs C had had made 
monthly payments  for nearly  eight years, albeit with the payment reference slightly changing 
at one point. 
Mrs C contacted Lloyds  which  accepted  Mr and Mrs C had been  the victims of fraud  but it 
said it was only willing to refund 13 months  of payments. It said they should  have  been  
checking their account regularly  and would then have noticed  the fraud sooner. It also said 
that this decision  was in line with the expectations  of how the bank should deal with such  a 
matter. This decision was also in line with the terms and conditions  of the account.
Lloyds didnt calculate what it needed  to pay to Mr and Mrs C correctly so the sum it offered 
wasnt paid immediately or in one go. But the full amount offered has now been  paid.  
However, Mr and Mrs C arent happy with that outcome and are seeking that all fraudulent 
transactions be refunded. Theyre unhappy with how difficult  it was for them  to identify they 
were victims  of fraud and also that Lloyds  didnt do more to prevent them being victims.
Our investigator had regard for the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) 2017 which say 
at Regulation  74:
(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress, only if it notifies the payment service
provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit
date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised  or incorrectly executed payment transaction
I would add that some of the transactions disputed as being their responsibility were made 
before the introduction of those PSRs but the PSRs 2009 say something  similar at 
Regulation 59:
Ref: DRN67954632(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 61, 75, 76 or 77 only if it 
notifies the payment service provider without undue  delay, and in any event no later than 13 
months after the debit  date, on becoming  aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction. 
She also noted that Lloyds account  terms and conditions,  section 18, state:
 Except for direct debits  or payments made using an overdraft, we will not refund the 
payment if you tell us more than 13 months after it was made  that the payment was not 
made properly or was unauthorised.
As Lloyds had complied  with these requirements,  she considered it had acted fairly, it not being 
obligated to refund any earlier transactions.
She did note Mr and Mrs C had online banking, and although the account wasnt  checked 
regularly, they said they could usually identify  when something wasnt right with the account. But 
as the name appeared  on the statement as it did, it made it difficult to identify  the fraudulent 
transactions. The investigator, though, while  acknowledging  the payment didnt look obviously  
fraudulent, said Lloyds  wasnt responsible  for how the payment showed on the account.
Taking everything into account,  the investigator  didnt  recommend that Lloyds needed to do 
anything further  to resolve this matter, Lloyds having refunded all the transactions  it was 
required to refund. 
Mr and Mrs C have asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C understood  that the references used  in respect of the payments they dispute, 
are used more widely  by other bank customers who dispute their responsibility for payments 
debited from their accounts. They contend that if Lloyds had received other  fraud reports, 
where the same payee reference  was used, then in accordance  with fraud  prevention 
requirements, Lloyds  should  have investigated whether any other  instances  of fraud had 
occurred on other customer accounts. 
And if this had happened, the fraudulent  activity  on their account would have been detected 
sooner and been stopped  without  the need for Mr and Mrs C to flag that unauthorised 
payments were leaving the account.
They assert that Lloyds  should have prevented them being defrauded in line with its 
obligations under  the FCA Handbook  at SYSC 3.2.6R which says:
A firm must take reasonable care to establish  and maintain  effective systems  and controls 
for compliance with applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and 
for countering the risk that the firm might be used  to further  financial crime.
They also make reference to a second  section of Regulation 74, PSRs  2017 which says:
Ref: DRN67954633Where the payment service provider has failed to provide or make  available  information  
concerning the payment transaction in accordance  with Part 6 of these Regulations 
(information requirements  for payment services), the payment service user is entitled  to 
redress under the regulations referred  to in paragraph (1) notwithstanding that the payment 
service user has failed to notify the payment service provider as mentioned  in that 
paragraph
A similar qualifying paragraph also exists under Regulation 59 of PSRs 2009.
Mr and Mrs C assert that Lloyds f a i l e d to provide them  with the necessary information 
concerning the disputed  payments, referring  to the PSRs 2017, Part 6, Regulation 53 which 
says Lloyds should have provided:
a reference enabling the payer to identify the payment transaction  and, where appropriate, 
information relating  to the payee 
They also refer to PSRs  2017 Regulation 59 which  states:
Where a payment  service provider is alleged to have failed to provide information in 
accordance with this Part,  it is for the payment service provider to prove that it provided the 
information in accordance  with this Part.
They say Lloyds failed  to provide relevant information,  the information  that was provided 
the reference(s)  - not enabling them to identify the payments or the real payee. They say 
they were unable to identify the payments as fraudulent from what was provided.  They  say 
investigation of the references only leads to information about the genuine telecom provider 
rather than the fraudsters. Indeed, all parties  accept the payments look genuine.  
I would first comment that the relevant  regulations  quoted in each set of PSRs are similar, in 
wording, but also in what it clearly intended  by them.  So, for ease of setting out these 
findings, Ill make reference to the later PSRs  only.
Mr and Mrs C are quite  right in saying that there  are two parts to section 74 of the PSRs  
2017. And, of course, its essential  that both elements are taken into account when applying 
the PSRs. But I dont consider that I can fairly and reasonably say that the bank needs  to 
refund to Mr and Mrs C all the disputed payments, based on their interpretation of the PSRs.                     
Theres no doubt that, taking regulation 74(1) in isolation, Mr and Mrs C arent entitled to a 
refund of the disputed transactions. The payments that havent  been refunded  were  clearly 
notified to the bank,  as disputed, more than 13 months after their debit  date.  
But PSR 2017  74(2) does clearly say that this wouldnt be relevant if Lloyds had failed to, as 
Mr and Mrs C have describes matters, provide enough information  about the transactions  for 
them to have been able to identify  the payments, the real payee or whether the payments 
were fraudulent.
I cant, however,  say that it would be fair and reasonable for the bank to have  needed to do 
any more than it did here. Timely information  was given  to Mr and Mrs C, on their statement 
- albeit they didnt  review  the detail of that document - about the value of the transaction and 
that it was being made to O2.
Ref: DRN67954634Its not clear here whether  the fraud  that took place was in the form of Mr and Mrs C making  
a payment to the genuine company, O2, for a contract that wasnt their obligation;  or whether 
the payment was for something else altogether, but the fraudster used the reference it did as 
a cover and to make it look genuine.
But, either way, Mr and Mrs C had a contractual relationship with O2 and were making 
genuine payments  to that company. And I think that the bank, in referencing the additional 
[fraudulent] payments as it did, provided enough information to Mr and Mrs C for them  to 
identify that they were  making more payments to O2 than they ought to have been and the 
total value of the funds paid to O2 each month  was greater than they ought to have been.  
I think it fair and reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs C ought to have been alerted to the 
fraudulent payments on their account, based on how they were listed and referenced on 
their statement;  and given  what they should  have been aware was their contractual  
obligation to pay to O2, and therefore  I cant say that they are entitled to refund of the 
disputed transactions,  under PSRs 2017  74(2). I consider that the bank was entitled to only 
refund the transactions they did, in reliance on PDRs  2017  74(1).  
I also dont consider that theres any evidence in this matter, that I can reply  on in coming to 
a fair and reasonable opinion, to support  that Lloyds was in breach of SYSC 3.2.6R. The 
broad obligations  that places on organisations like banks cant  be said to have been 
breached, simply because fraud has been  able to take place, in the manner it has here, on 
more than one account.
In any event, those  obligations  have to be considered in the context of other rules, 
regulations and obligations  and given what Ive said about the PSRs,  the more detailed 
regulations in respect of how banks should  process  payment transactions,  it remains that 
Lloyds dont have  to refund any further  sum to Mr and Mrs C in this matter.   
my final decision
In light of all Ive said, I dont consider that Lloyds needs to do any more in settlement of this 
dispute. I make no financial award against, or direction  to, the bank. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6795463