K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained because  Santander  UK Plc returned an incoming  payment  to the sender, 
closed his account, and put a CIFAS (fraud) marker against his name.
Mr D wants the money returned to him, the CIFAS  marker  removed, and compensation.
background
On 2 April 2019  a credit for £10,000 was transferred into Mr Ds Santander account from a 
Mr K. On 3 April, a further credit for £10,000,  from Mrs H, was transferred into his account.  
This was the ninth  credit for £10,000  from her account.
On 4 April, Santander wrote  to tell Mr D that it had temporarily blocked his account. It asked 
Mr D to get in touch. On 25 April,  Santander wrote again, saying  it was withdrawing Mr Ds 
banking facilities with immediate effect. It also placed a CIFAS marker against  Mr Ds name.
Mr D complained. On 26 April, Santander  spoke  to Mr D. Mr D said that he traded in bitcoins 
via a trader  Mr A - and thats what the incoming payment from Mrs H was for. He told 
Santander he had already  been  in contact regarding  the money from Mr K as he hadnt  
recognised it.  He was told there was nothing Santander could do about it.
Santander said it would investigate what Mr D had said about the transactions, and whether  
he was entitled  to the money. It (Santander) also said it didnt work with virtual currency, so it 
would be closing his account. Mr D said his account  had been running for some  time, and he 
hadnt initially used  it to sell bitcoins.
Santander didnt  change its mind about  closing Mr Ds account. It wrote  to tell Mr D it 
wouldnt be offering  him banking facilities  in future  - and said the CIFAS marker would 
remain. It returned the two £10,000  payments to the senders. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  He wanted the money from Mrs H 
back, the CIFAS  marker  removed, and compensation. Mr D also said that another  bank had 
closed its account  with him as a result of Santanders CIFAS marker. Mr D obtained a copy 
of this from CIFAS. This showed  that Santander had recorded a marker  on its National 
Fraud Database,  on the basis of misuse  of facility and fraudulent faster  payments 
transaction: first party fraud.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said hed looked at the detailed reasons 
why Santander  had put the CIFAS marker against Mr Ds name  and agreed  that Santander 
had good reason to take the action it did. The investigator also noted that Mr D had said hed 
used the account for the business purpose  of selling bitcoins.  So, hed breached  the account 
terms and conditions by using a personal account  for business purposes, though that hadnt 
been the main  reason why Santander  had closed Mr Ds account.
Mr D said he hadnt disputed Santanders right to close  his account, but he wanted the 
£10,000 from Mrs H which Santander  had removed from his account. He reminded  our 
investigator that he had in contacted  Santander when Mr Ks money had credited  his 
account because  he didnt know a Mr K and wasnt expecting  the money. He also said that 
he had pursued  Santander  through the courts and the CIFAS marker had now been 
removed - so the return of the money was the only remaining issue.
Ref: DRN67123322Santander confirmed  with this service that following a review of Mr Ds account, it had in fact 
removed the CIFAS  marker but its stance in relation to the credits  to Mr Ds account  
remained the same.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D is no longer complaining about the CIFAS issue,  so the only remaining issue for me to 
consider is whether or not Santander acted fairly  when it refused to refund Mr D with the 
disputed credit into his account.
Mr D told Santander he had been  selling bitcoins to Mrs H via a trader for a few months.   He 
now had some concerns  about the trader because  he was the same  trader  involved in the 
credit from Mr K  but prior to that, he had not been concerned.   He said he knew  the credits 
from Mrs H would have involved her having to go to her own bank and confirming the 
payments in person.  So, he was satisfied the transfers were  genuine.   This  was despite the 
fact he had requested  confirmation of Mrs Hs identification from the dealer and had never 
been provided with it.
Ive thought about Mr Ds entitlement to these funds.  He  has presented a statement which 
he says shows the purchase of what looks  like bitcoins  and so he is owed the money  from 
Mrs H.  But  if there  are concerns as to whether Mrs H knew where she was sending her 
money to and for what purpose, then Santander is entitled to act as it has.
I think Mr D may have  realised now that the dealer he was working with might not have been 
who he said he was  and the funds from Mrs H may not have been sent by her with the 
intention of buying bitcoins.  Mr D may want to be reimbursed  but that money will not be 
coming from the disputed  funds sent from Mrs H.
In the circumstances, I have seen nothing to suggest Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in debiting Mr Ds account and returning the funds to the third-party  bank.
I make  no comment  in relation to the account closure or the CIFAS marker as Mr D 
confirmed he was now only pursuing the complaint regarding the disputed funds.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6712332