K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont provide him with the repayment mortgage that 
it promised him. Mr J wants HSBC to provide him with the mortgage  and pay compensation 
of £2,000.
background
Mr J took out a repayment mortgage with HSBC  in 2004 for 14 years. The loan was for 
£73,000. This transferred to an interest  only mortgage in 2007 with an outstanding balance 
of £62,631.52 and this account was unpaid  at the end of its term in July 2018.  Mr J was 
paying a contractual monthly payment of £80 on this account in July 2018. 
Mr J had another two mortgage accounts with HSBC.  One was a repayment mortgage  which  
was originally for £67,634.93 and which Mr J took out in April 2005. In 2018 Mr J was paying 
a contractual monthly payment of £540.29  each month and this mortgage was paid off in 
July 2018. The other mortgage account,  also repayment, was for £10,000 taken out in 
February 2006. Mr J was making  a contractual monthly payment of £76.42  towards this and 
it was paid off in March 2018. 
In respect of the first mortgage account,  it seems that Mr J enquired about reverting to 
capital and interest in 2009 but it didnt occur.  Mr J says that he was told in 2011 that he 
could convert his mortgage to repayment but HSBC say that he didnt  make  an application to 
do so. In September 2013 HSBC wrote  to Mr J to remind him that this interest-only mortgage 
needed to be paid in five years. HSBC  sent a similar  letter in September 2015  and 
September 2017. In May 2018 HSBC issued Mr J with a Key Facts Illustration to convert this 
interest only mortgage to a repayment  mortgage.  It proposed a ten-year repayment 
mortgage based on a borrowing of about £60,000 and monthly  payments  of initially 
£561.41.The valuation  of the property  was said to be £350,000.  
But after processing  the application in July 2018 HSBC refused a repayment mortgage as Mr 
Js expenditure exceeded his net income.  In August 2018 following further contact from Mr J 
when he indicated that his income  had improved, HSBC says it re-decisioned the 
application but again declined it on the grounds  of affordability.  
Mr J says that on a number of occasions he was promised that he could transfer back to a 
repayment mortgage and HSBC should allow him to do so. Mr J has been paying  £645 
monthly towards the outstanding balance  since 2018  without having  an agreed arrangement 
with HSBC. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld  as he 
didnt believe that HSBC had done anything wrong  or had acted unfairly. Mr J disagreed  and 
asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has two complaints, firstly that HSBC always promised him that he could move  back to 
a repayment mortgage and that in any case HSBC should provide him with the repayment 
mortgage he applied  for in 2018.
Ref: DRN69933632This mortgage account started as a repayment  mortgage and transferred to interest only in 
2007. HSBC says that Mr J requested a transfer back  in 2009. HSBCs records  say that 
documentation to apply to do so was sent out at that time but Mr J didnt return it. I note that 
the annual statements on this mortgage  account  from 2009 say that this account  is interest  
only and the final repayment is to be made in August 2018. 
Mr J says that in a number of conversations  he was told that this account could revert to full 
repayment once  his two previous mortgages  were paid off and believes that HSBC  should 
honour that. There is no record of these  conversations and nothing  in writing to confirm that 
Mr J could do so. Even  if I were to accept  that there were these conversations  its not clear 
to me that HSBC  and Mr J had reached  any meaningful  agreement  that wouldnt be subject 
to a further application by Mr J. 
Was the arrangement  that if the other two accounts were paid off early that HSBC would 
transfer the account back to a repayment within  the term of the mortgage? But that didnt 
happen. If the transfer wasnt to occur upon  early repayment of the other accounts, HSBC  
would have had to agree  both to the transfer to a repayment mortgage and to extend  the 
term of the mortgage.  But for what length of time was the extension  to be and at what  
interest rate? Mr J doesnt say which suggests  that contrary  to what  Mr J believes there was 
no formal agreement to transfer. My view is that its more likely  that HSBC  indicated that Mr 
J could apply to transfer back when he could  afford  to do so. But given that some major 
terms werent yet agreed I dont  believe that HSBC gave Mr J an open  commitment that it 
would accept the application.   
Mr Js mortgage matured  in 2018  when he applied for a repayment mortgage. The property 
has a fairly  low LTV. But HSBC refused the mortgage because it said it was unaffordable. Mr 
J wasnt looking to increase the mortgage so HSBC should look at whether a repayment  
mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Js best interests.  The affordability of the mortgage  will play a 
role in that decision.
I carefully reviewed how HSBC came to a decision that the mortgage was unaffordable. In 
2018 Mr J paid off the two  other  loans to HSBC and during  that year he got the State  
Pension so I wanted  to make sure that HSBC had considered  all that and had fairly 
considered the affordability of the mortgage. Mr J is unconvinced that it had. 
HSBC assessed  Mr Js income as £32,634 which includes  the state pension  and other 
pensions which is a monthly income  of £2,719.50 less tax of £346.90. It then assessed Mr 
Js other expenditure as modelled  basic expenditure and cost of living of £758,  payment 
towards a second  charge of £475 and a total of £1,634.29 for other  credit  commitments.  This 
last figure  is made up of 3% of £26,500 credit card balances, £299 loan payments and 
£540.29 existing  mortgage payments. On these  figures Mr J has a negative  income of about 
£500. In 2018 Mr J was quoted a new repayment  mortgage with HSBC  of £561.41. If I 
substitute that figure for the £540.29  in HSBCs  calculation it still makes  the mortgage  
unaffordable. 
Whats clearly affecting these figures  is that Mr J has a large  amount  of other debt that he is 
committed to service.  This means that he simply hasnt got enough income  to sustain the 
payment of this mortgage over the term that he wanted. This isnt unaffordable  by a small 
margin but by almost the whole amount of the mortgage payment. On the other hand, Mr J 
has in fact been paying more than he would have been towards  the contractual monthly 
payments under the proposed repayment mortgage since  July 2018.This will have reduced 
the outstanding balance  to, I estimate,  something  less than £50,000. 
Ref: DRN69933633In dealing with this complaint I have to look at what would be in Mr Js best interests at the 
time that HSBC refused  the mortgage.  On the information provided it would seem over the 
period of the proposed  mortgage that Mr J, because of his other  commitments,  simply 
couldnt afford to maintain his contractual  payments.  I recognise  that in the short term, Mr J 
may be able to do so by squeezing other expenditure  or by increasing his unsecured  debt. 
By 2018, Mr J had accumulated a substantial amount  of credit card debt which was about 
the size of his annual  net income  and on which he would probably have been paying  a high 
rate of interest. If HSBC were to give Mr J a further mortgage, he would very likely be 
financially worse off as a result. So, I cant say that HSBC  did anything wrong by refusing to 
allow Mr J to put himself in a worse  financial position than he was already in. Mr J would 
have had the alternative then of taking out an equity release product or selling his house 
which would have had a good deal of equity at the time.
In this complaint  I have  been dealing with Mr Js application for a repayment mortgage in 
2018 and I agree with HSBC that it was unaffordable and not in Mr Js best interests  and so I 
wont be upholding this complaint.  Mr J has dealt with the issue  somewhat unusually  by 
continuing to make the monthly payments as if he was on a repayment mortgage  although  
that isnt the case. This has had the advantage to HSBC of reducing the capital its owed. 
I have to recognise that presently circumstances  for the sale of a property are very different 
than 2018. Mr J may wish to apply for a term extension which HSBC should consider  in the 
light of the very changed circumstances that apply presently and Mr Js continued  
commitment to reduce  the capital balance. Hopefully HSBC and Mr J can come  to an 
arrangement in respect of that which will allow Mr J time for circumstances  to improve and to 
look at the other options that are open to him including equity release. But for the reasons 
Ive set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6993363