K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Cova Insurance plc has dealt with a claim under  a 
buildings insurance  policy. Mrs M is represented  by Mr M in this complaint.
background
I issued my provisional findings in April 2019. For ease I have attached  my provisional 
findings to this decision and it forms part of my final decision. 
replies to provisional decision
Cova has sent a detailed response commenting  on a number of issues  including;
Tanking (type, extent of liability and costs)
Delays and completion  date
Underfloor heating
Alternative accommodation costs
Mrs M has provided a comprehensive  response  but in summary disagrees with my 
provisional thoughts on the impact of delays  and how things should be put right.  We shared 
each response with the parties and Mrs M has given  her comments on what  Cova  has said. 
Mrs M has taken  issue with the majority of Covas reply.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint  which has a number of facets and detail. And there  remain  a number of 
areas of disagreement.  The parties have been  afforded every opportunity to provide 
information and see from each others  side what the points in dispute  are. Our service  is set 
up to resolve certain disputes quickly and with minimal formality as an alternative to the civil 
courts. And so there are limitations in how we investigate and determine cases that a formal 
court process might be better  suited  to do. That being said I am also mindful that we resolve  
disputes on the basis of what, in the ombudsmans opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Mrs M engaged the services of a surveyor to effectively manage the building works (both  
insured and private) and she was their client. But Im not able to have first-hand information  
from the surveyor about their perspective of what happened, how the delay manifested,  the 
reason for its continuance and a number of issues that potentially  impacted the entirety of 
the building  works. Indeed, one of the issues raised by Cova  is that the surveyor didnt 
initially recognise that the tanking works were subject to building  control.  
Its also clear  that there is a degree of mistrust between  Mrs M and Cova  for example 
Cova believes that Mrs M hasnt allowed effective communication with Cova about some 
aspects of the delay.  And Mrs M, through her representative, believes that Cova speculates  
to fill a narrative.  In short there is very little that is agreed between the parties.
Ref: DRN64590792I have received large amounts of information  that I have assessed and assimilated to reach 
an outcome that I am satisfied is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. There remain  significant  areas of dispute.
Tanking
I disagree with Cova that its fair to simply  put the tanking back in the condition  it was as to 
do so would not be compliant with current building regulations. And so Cova simply could 
not have done that. While Cova maintains  it is correct, I outlined  why I disagreed  in my 
provisional decision which was based  on my reading of the relevant regulations and having 
spoken with the relevant authority. The tanking  required  an upgrade and on the basis that 
Cova needed  to complete an effective and lasting repair I remain satisfied that its fair 
Cova is responsible for the system recommended by the specialists who provided the 
original report on the matter.
I provisionally found that Cova should  pay £13,858.04 for the tanking  works but Cova  says 
the tanking was extended beyond the original  specification  and some  allowance had been 
already allowed for some  removal works  related to the removal and renewal of joists.  The 
challenge throughout this complaint  is that it has been difficult  to establish exactly  what 
happened and what the consequences were, including  costs. I consider the independent  
specialists report to be persuasive of what the tanking replacement  needed to be to remain 
compliant with building regulations. And Im satisfied that £13,858.04 is the cost that Cova 
needs to pay.
Other related issues  were raised and addressed in my provisional decision about the soil 
pipe, insulation and ducting. In brief its Mrs Ms case that these should be covered  under 
insured works as they had to be relocated/changed  because of the tanking. And because 
the tanking, as an insured work, is the cause of the relocation/change the cost of this should 
be an insured work. I explained that both parties  could provide more  information about this. 
Cova says these  issues are unrelated to the tanking;
Soil pipe adjustment - was due to Mrs M relocating a toilet and not an insured work
Insulation  was due to Mrs M requesting an increase and later finding  out that the 
underfloor heating  system and insulation were  incompatible and this was private 
work not insured
Sanding was  required  to provide an adequate bed for the underfloor  heating 
system, again private works unrelated to the insured works.
Ducting and extractors  the property was a shell after stripping out and the ducting 
and extractors  were installed on the rear elevation, as this was a natural place for 
them to be installed.
Mrs M has said Cova  had to reinstate the heating, extractors, ducts and pipes because  the 
house had been stripped out and related to the insured  works.  So, the fact that these had to 
be redirected to the back wall because of the tanking is really  inconsequential  except that 
the cost has been assigned  to private  works. Ive taken into account  Mrs Ms 
representatives response and balanced  what hes said against  what Cova says. 
The ducting  and extractor related work is apparently  £1,771.06 and Cova hasnt satisfied 
me that these were  private. It seems  that they were stripped out because of insured works 
and reinstalled  at a more  natural place.  Theres no dispute  the house  was a shell and these 
would have been reinstated so Im persuaded that these costs  are related, or its fair to 
conclude they are related, to the insured works  and that Cova  should  pay.
Ref: DRN64590793On the basis of the toilet being relocated  as part of the private  work  I am persuaded Cova 
should not cover the cost of the soil pipe. 
On the insulation and sanding works Im not satisfied that Cova should cover  these costs. 
Cova says these  are related to the private  works around the underfloor heating whereas 
Mrs M disagrees.  She has provided an email from the contractor and supplier.  The email 
says the sand was required  to improve  the compression resistance of the membrane as a 
whole. And it explains that sand spread reduces the risk of crushing. The email doesnt, in 
my view, conclude that the sand is a fundamental and necessary part of the membrane 
installation process.  It may have  been  something  that improved performance  but not 
something that was a necessity. And as the underfloor heating was a private work matter I 
dont find these were, on the balance of probabilities, a necessary part of tanking as 
suggested by Mrs M. 
contractors administration fee 
Cova points out that the percentage fee agreed with the surveyor was 13.5%. This is 
correct as far as the information  Ive seen for the insurance works. But Ive also seen a letter  
from the surveyor to Mrs M with the fee agreed for improvement works (I interpret this as 
private works) being 15%. And as Mrs Ms private works have been paid then this is the 
relevant fee.
Underfloor heating
I initially said that this wasnt  a cost Cova should  cover as I wasnt  persuaded Mrs M had 
shown shed actually  accepted the original quote and subsequently paid £4,001.69 more.  
Whats not in dispute is that this was private work  Mrs M was taking the opportunity to 
make an improvement while the house  was being dismantled because  of an insured event. 
The dispute  arises because Mrs M says she had to pay more for the system because  of the 
delay caused  by Cova. And Cova says that Mrs M didnt  elect to install this until 
November 2017  and so the delay was effectively irrelevant.
Mrs M has provided further correspondence which  shows  that she wanted to go ahead with 
the initial quote in July 2017. Arrangements needed  to be made  with the surveyor  for a site 
visit where further discussions would take place. Mrs M has provided a quote from the same 
company dated  late November  2017 at a total cost of £6,534.65  a difference of £268.65  
and the company stated to the surveyor it would be February before installation  could take 
place.
A decision was made not to go ahead with this and alternative arrangements  were made by 
Mrs M, at an increased cost. Ive been  provided with invoices in relation to material and note 
these are dated in March  and May.  I balance  here the fact that in the previous November the 
company told the surveyor installation couldnt  take place until February.  But Mrs M 
arranged this independently and it took place over March to May. Although she has now said 
that the date the company  could carry out the work was pushed  back  further, Im not 
persuaded that Cova caused the substantial increase in costs.  And because of that I will 
only hold it responsible for the difference in the price Mrs M could have paid had she gone  
ahead with a February  installation  (being £268.65). 
And Ive also considered  representations that the underfloor was scheduled  for installation in 
July 2017 but couldnt go ahead because of the underlying tanking issue.  Mrs M has said the 
person they dealt with at the company  to install the system no longer works there. And so 
she cant provide anything more definite than the recollection of a previous discussion. Im 
Ref: DRN64590794not persuaded that it has been shown there  was a firm agreed date in July 2017 for 
installation and so Im not satisfied it would be fair to hold Cova responsible  for the 
additional cost.
Contractors costs (prolongation)
I initially said I wasnt minded to make an award  of £6,500  as I didnt think  there was 
enough evidence  to show that this amount  was a result of the delay Cova caused up to 6 
April 2018. And there had been litigation which was likely to be relevant to this point. 
Mrs M has confirmed  the extent of what litigation took place and settled out of court.  And 
shes pointed out that these werent related to prolongation costs. But Im satisfied Cova 
isnt responsible for the totality  of the delays and as such  Im still satisfied that theres 
insufficient evidence  that any prolongation costs arose because  of Cova. I accept theres  a 
chance there was some  impact but in all the circumstances Im not persuaded by the 
information that Ive seen  its more  likely  than not. It seems to be the case  from the 
information that the contractor wasnt as efficient / reliable as might be expected and this 
would, in my view, impact  delays too. The issue of prolongation is not one I have  sufficient 
information on to persuade me Cova should pay.
Delays
Cova challenges  the timeframe of the award  up to 6 April 2018 set out in my provisional 
decision. It says if the delays incorporating the tanking issue are added to the contract 
duration for the insurance related works, then works would  have been  completed by 15 
January 2018.  And Cova has set out a timeline  to support its view, which it says is informed 
by discussions with the surveyor. I dont have access to the surveyor but Mrs M strongly 
refutes this and believes the award  timeframe should be extended.
Having reviewed the information provided by both parties it is apparent that there were times 
the contractor wasnt  efficient in so far as being  on site when they were supposed to. And 
there are issues outside of Covas control such as being responsible for the entirety of the 
issue around underfloor  heating.
But the original  scope of the insured works  was, in my view unrealistic. I say that because  it 
was acknowledged  early on by the surveyor and it was pushed  back later to 26 weeks  when 
a new schedule had to be drawn up. Ive accepted that Cova wasnt responsible  for every  
bit of delay but I remain  satisfied  that the rescheduled timeframe  is a reasonable period for 
the insured works given all the circumstances . Ive taken into account  the fact that private  
works might have been done simultaneously to the insured works. 
Mrs M challenges  my thoughts on this area from a timeline and financial perspective.  As Ive 
said one of the difficulties in the case is getting  a complete picture  from all the parties 
involved, including the contractors and surveyor. Mrs M thinks  I should effectively award 
more and Cova  says I should be awarding  less. Without a complete picture, which  Ive 
exhausted all possibilities in obtaining, Im reaching an outcome that I consider  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. It reflects the difficulties mentioned and the reality of a 
he said she said situation.
Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome in making Cova responsible for delays 
further than 6 April 2018.
Ref: DRN64590795Other costs
Alternative Accommodation expenses
Cova says it carried out searches on the rental accommodation (property A) which indicate 
the property was in fact owned at least in part by Mrs Ms representative  since 2005. No 
supportive evidence  has been provided  but the representative has confirmed he purchased  
the property recently.  And Cova wants evidence that costs have actually been paid and the 
basis for the arrangement, given the interest  in the property.
During the period from November 2017  to April 2018  (the period for which Ive concluded 
Cova is responsible)  Mrs M stayed  in two properties. The first property lasted for a short 
period (property  E) and Ive seen an invoice that satisfies  me Mrs M paid £1,600 for a period 
ending 2 December  2017. As such I remain satisfied Cova should refund the rental amount 
for property  E with interest  from 2 December 2017.
The remaining  costs (£14,250) relate to a second property (property A) and Mrs M has 
provided a bank statement as supportive evidence that she has paid this. In the information 
provided previously,  [property A] Rental Agreement, the cost is itemised as £750 per week 
in advance. Ive not seen anything that shows Mrs M paid a weekly payment of £750  in 
advance, but there is a suggested per calendar month  payment  of £3,000. 
The bank statement sent in shows an outgoing  payment from a joint bank account  but the 
account name isnt apparent. So I dont know whose account this is. And within the 
transaction history  I can see a monthly payment of £3,000, which  could relate to £750  per 
week (although  not exactly).  The description of the transaction simply gives  the initials of a 
person who may or may not be the lessor. And it may, or may not be for rent. Mrs M has 
said that for simplicity she paid £3,000 per calendar month. But that isnt in line with the 
agreement shes sent in, and it appears to be in arrears as opposed to the agreement which 
states in advance. And shes also pointed to other  ad hoc payments but its unclear what  
these relate  to. So, Im not satisfied that this is sufficient to demonstrate Mrs M has made 
payments for property  A.
During our investigation Mrs Ms representative has told us that accommodation owned by 
family members was still owed (as at 12 March  2019) yet also that property A had been paid 
monthly. The payment  of alternative accommodation  is something that Im not satisfied has 
been shown by what Ive received.
Taking into account everything  Ive been  provided  (about property A) I am satisfied that its 
fair Cova  reimburses  Mrs M for comparable rental costs only if she can sufficiently 
demonstrate she paid this. I am mindful  that the rental fee claimed to have been paid is 
substantially more than was paid for property E at £1,600, and another  property  which was 
under £700  per week. To that end Cova is entitled to request  evidence from Mrs M that 
supports the costs  she is claiming from 2 December  2017 to 6 April 2018 in relation  to 
property A. That evidence will need to show amounts leaving Mrs Ms account and being 
deposited to the account of the lessor (as apparent in the document  headed [property A] 
Rental Agreement  dated  10 April 2018  to a family member) as per the terms of the tenancy 
agreement. If Mrs M provides such information to Cova and Cova makes payment then it 
must add interest  too from the date of each payment.  For clarity  Cova is only required by 
this decision to refund for a period from 2 December 2017 ending 6 April 2018.
Ref: DRN64590796Removal and Storage Costs 
I provisionally said Cova  should pay £1,972 with interest (on top of the £1,258 it had 
already paid)  but Mrs M was to provide  evidence  of payment. Having reviewed  all the 
information again I think the amount I provisionally awarded is less than what it should be. 
The invoices supplied show amounts not covered  by Cova to date as follows;
Removal, storage  and insurance £1,732 (company 1)
Removal cost of £240 (company 2)
Storage cost £187.50  (company 3)
The total amount  for storage and removals is £2,159.50. For company 3 there  is an amount 
of £75 that was invoiced  but a credit note applied of the same  value.  I have taken this to 
mean that Mrs M didnt  make a payment. I say this because  the statement shes sent in 
clearly denotes payment for amounts  totalling  £187.50 and if the final £75 had been  paid I 
would have expected it to have the same  descriptor as other payments. The period for which  
this amount relates to coincides with the removal and delivery dates in other invoices. 
Postal Redirection Costs  
I remain satisfied that Cova pays Mrs M £80, which is the amount up to 6 April 2018. 
Garden costs 
Mrs M claims reinstatement costs of £1,430 and Id said in my provisional  decision that 
Cova had already paid £850. I also said further payment was conditional on Mrs M 
providing evidence  that she has paid more  than £850 to the gardening service. But the 
evidence I have been provided with is an invoice for £590 (quote 2 from a gardening 
service). Mrs M says the remaining amount of £580  (£1,430 - £850) is for full reinstatement.  
Having reviewed the quotes again and the invoice paid it is apparent that the work done so 
far includes tidying, turf, waste and labour.  That leaves the replacement of gravel  quoted at a 
cost of £490. When that is added to the work  carried out it adds up to £1,080. Covas  
payment of £850  covers the £590 paid with a residue of £260. Im satisfied that its fair to 
require Cova to pay an additional amount of £230  to make up the full reinstatement cost.  
Interest
In general I think its fair that Cova pays interest on top of sums it is paying Mrs M where  
she has demonstrably paid the money and as such has been deprived  of that money.  Mrs M 
tells me that the money borrowed from family is not an interest free loan to her and they 
didnt expect to lend the money to Cova  interest  free either. Mrs M has now provided a 
document purporting  to be an agreement for loan terms of 8% interest up to £50,000 and 
11% over that amount.  The evidence Ive been  provided shows  that amounts were paid at 
different times by a member of Mrs Ms family.  
In my view the agreement as drafted lacks certainty around some  features such  as;
Upon completion  of the work and to your satisfaction  with all outstanding invoices relating to 
the work  having  been settled we would look to be repaid under the following terms;
Its not for me to comment on the legality or legal  status of the agreement as a contract 
between the contracting parties.  But the phrase and to your satisfaction is vague. 
Mrs M has provided the agreement as evidence to support her view that Cova should pay 
interest on sums relating to payment of works that she hasnt actually  paid for. Taking  the 
language of the agreement, if Mrs M isnt satisfied with works then she doesnt have to 
repay. This can impact  in two ways; first she may not have to repay the loan; secondly, using 
Ref: DRN64590797the agreement  to support the payment of interest,  the longer she withholds satisfaction the 
larger the liability for paying  interest. In these  circumstances where that impacts on a third 
party not party to the agreement, and bearing  in mind that Mrs M hasnt  personally  paid for 
the majority of works, I havent  changed  my mind  from my provisional  decision on interest. 
But I accept it is frustrating and can be embarrassing to have to ask family  for money  or pay 
for things.  Ive taken  that into account in my consideration of the distress and inconvenience  
I think Cova is responsible for. Mrs M feels £1,000  is insufficient but Im not persuaded to 
change from my initial view. Although she was out of her house longer than expected she 
largely had comparable accommodation. She had a surveyor  shed instructed dealing  with 
Cova and although there were  disagreements  with Cova Im satisfied £1,000 reflects the 
impact of the issues Ive concluded Cova got wrong. Her representative  may have  been  
caused distress in having to be so involved in the complaint but hes not a contracting  party  
in the insurance  policy  and so not a customer  of Cova. As such  the rules  under which  we 
operate dont  allow  me to award anything to the representative. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Cova Insurance Plc to do the following;
Pay Mrs M accommodation related costs for property E to 2 December 2017  of 
£1,600 adding  simple  interest  at 8% per year from 2 December 2017 to the date 
Cova issues  its payment.
Pay Mrs M accommodation costs for property A only if she presents appropriate  
evidence to support her paying  the amount  of £750 per week in arrears as per the 
tenancy agreement (or £3,000 per month) for the period from 2 December 2017  to 6 
April 2018 adding simple interest at 8% per year from the payment dates to the date 
Cova issues  payment.
Pay Mrs M removal and storage related  costs  of £2,159.50 with simple interest at 8% 
per year to tie in with invoice  dates to the date Cova issues  its payment as follows;
o£37.50   2 October 2017 (company 3)
o£250  10 October 2017  (company  1)
o£240  26 October 2017  (company  2)
o£75  1 November 2017 (company 3)
o£1,482  - 29 November 2017  (company  1)
o£75  8 December 2017 (company 3)
Pay Mrs M £260 for garden reinstatement  costs.
Pay Mrs M postal re-direction costs of £80 with simple interest at 8% per year from 
21 September 2017 to the date Cova issues its payment.
Pay Mrs M an electricity contribution of £50.
Pay Mrs M the tanking and related works  (£15,629.10) as follows;
oSolid  concrete floor £7,552.84
oType C tanking system £6,305.20
oDucting  and extractor work of £1,771.06 
Pay Mrs M the Contract  Administrators fee of 15% on;
othe tanking  and related works  cost of £15,629.10.
o15% = £2,344.27
Pay Mrs M £1,000  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN64590798Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64590799Copy
provisional decision
date of decision: 24 April 2019
complaint
Mrs M complains about  the way Cova Insurance  plc has dealt with a claim under a buildings 
insurance policy.
Mrs M is represented in this complaint but Ill refer to her throughout.
background
There is a considerable amount of detail  to the background but I wont go into the specifics too much 
as the parties  are aware of what has happened. However, a brief summary of the claim is that in 
October 2016 pipework  in Mrs Ms home was found to be leaking and causing damage.  Mrs M made  
her claim and Cova accepted it and started  to investigate the damage and how to repair it. 
The main issue between the parties  concerns  the tanking in a basement/cellar  area. Secondary to 
this, but important, is the impact this had and the additional  costs Mrs M has been put to as a result. 
Part of the repair works involved removing a liner block wall to access  a sub-terrain outside facing 
wall, drilling holes, chemical injections, refilling the holes  and reapplication  of the blackjack/bitumen 
coating and the reinstatement of the liner. 
Cova was prepared to reinstate the blackjack/bitumen  coating so the tanking was in the condition it 
was before the claim. But Mrs M didnt think this was fair. Her view was that the tanking  system  
needed to be replaced to comply with current building  regulations. Cova considered  this to be 
unnecessary and would equate to betterment, which isnt covered by the policy.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the matter  and was of the view that building regulations required 
the tanking to be compliant  with current regulations. And so Cova  had to pay the cost of this. He also 
thought Cova should pay other  costs including  alternative accommodation and storage. 
Mrs M agreed with the adjudicator but Cova  did not, and made reference  to a number of matters:
Mrs M was having  non-insurance  related  works carried out
Building control had not required the tanking to be upgraded
The insurance works did not have to be notified to building control and so arent subject to 
building control
Building control accepted Mrs Ms submission for the non-insurance works which  included  a 
tanking upgrade but the regulations only require the system to be similar or better
It has paid accommodation costs for Mrs M works and has no liability  to do likewise  for non-
insurance works
Delays are largely because  of Mrs Ms non-insurance  works
As the parties couldnt agree  the matter has been referred  to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The crux of this complaint concerns the tanking issue. Mrs Ms case  is that building regulations 
require a specific type/standard and that is what Cova  should  comply  with, even though it will be an 
upgraded standard to what is currently there. Covas  position is that all it needs to do is repair the 
tanking to put it back in the condition it was before the repair works it carries out. 
Ref: DRN645907910There is a vast amount of content that Ive considered  and I have received further information from 
Mrs Ms representative,  Cova, the loss adjuster and Ive spoken  with the relevant  authoritys  building 
control department.
The language  around  the tanking and building  regulations  is technical but Ill outline the main  issues 
in simple terms. There is a specific wall in question  that both parties are aware of and Ill call this the 
tanking wall. It had a blackjack  (also  known as bitumen) coating and needed  to be drilled into so that 
chemical treatment  could  be injected to treat dry rot. If that was all that was required, the surface 
repaired and a new black jack coating applied  then in principle that was all Cova needed to cover.  In 
simple terms, the requirement was to not leave  the wall in a worse condition than before.
However, there was a lining in front of this wall, which I understand was a block  wall. This had to be 
demolished in order to repair the tanking wall. Relevant building regulations  dated  2012 meant that as 
the lining (a thermal  element) was being demolished  there needed to be a thermal upgrade to meet 
the 2012  Regulations. And importantly this meant the works were notifiable  to building control. Having 
spoken with Cova and the loss adjuster this now appears to be an accepted position.
Cova has said it was, in effect, in the hands  of Mrs Ms surveyor; it made inquiries with the relevant 
building control department which gave it incorrect information  about whether the works were 
notifiable and Covas  decision was based on this. Cova also said the surveyor, at that stage, wasnt 
intending to apply for a licence in relation to the tanking works. While  I appreciate Covas  
submissions on this it did have its own loss adjuster  involved too and I dont think  its unreasonable to 
expect that such a professional  would  be knowledgeable  and cognisant of the relevant regulations. So 
Im satisfied that that Cova should  have agreed to cover the required tanking works as set out in the 
letter of 30 June.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs M to contest Covas decision  at that point  as it wasnt an 
insignificant sum of money and she genuinely thought (and complained to) Cova  should be paying 
the cost. In the face of repeated consideration and refusal she decided to authorise the tanking works 
around 22 September. Im satisfied that fairness is met here by holding Cova responsible for that 
delay and the impact it had. I think its too simplistic  to say that everything that followed was a result of 
Covas decision.  But it would  necessarily have an impact  as the contractor  would have agreed a 
timeframe initially within which to complete the works. And as works were  halted for a period of time 
the contractor  would have  had to accommodate completion within other commitments they had 
agreed elsewhere. 
So, now the issue for me is to decide what  the impact has been as a consequence of Covas  refusal  
to accept that the tanking  works were notifiable.
Mrs M incident, being the leaking water,  occurred  in October 2016 and initial inspections took place 
by two different firms  shortly  after this. Cova instructed  a company  (H) to investigate  dry rot and an 
inspection took place in January 2017.  Extensive dry rot was found and linked to the leak,  and it was 
on this basis that Cova accepted the claim.
It seems to be the case that a surveyor was appointed to project manage / oversee the works to 
Mrs Ms home.  The surveyor was Mrs Ms choice. Im mindful that Mrs M included some private works 
within the overall works. All parties  were  to an extent dependent on information  and expertise from the 
surveyor. It wasnt until the end of June that the tanking works became  an issue.  A letter  dated  30 
June 2017 from a damp proofing  specialist  company outlined the work required  and estimated  the 
necessary works at £13,732. 
Cova refused to cover  the required works  to ensure  the tanking system  was compliant with the 2012 
building regulations as it didnt feel it was required to. Ive seen emails from September 2017 in which  
Covas loss adjuster states the surveyor was not preparing a building control submission for the 
tanking works. This seems to be contrary to the building regulations although  I make no finding  on 
that. 
Ref: DRN645907911However, notwithstanding the uncertainty between the parties about  the building regulations  Cova 
had refused to cover the full cost of the required tanking works that needed  to be compliant with the 
regulations. Its an inescapable conclusion that had Cova agreed to cover the extent of the system  
as outlined in the experts letter of 30 June  2017, those works could have  been carried out sooner  
than they were. That may have led to works  being done without the correct building control 
permission but that would have laid with the Surveyor and not Cova. Covas responsibility was to 
accept payment for the tanking as part of Mrs M works  so that the schedule could be maintained.
From Mrs Ms information  there  appears two relevant  pieces  of information here; Cova refused 
tanking costs in mid-July  2017; and the instruction to the surveyor to proceed with the tanking 
(presumably from her) happened around 22 September 2017.
Im mindful that the scope of required  works  initially anticipated  lasting around 18 weeks but this was 
pushed back further to around 26 weeks. The original schedule had an end date of around 25 
September 2017 but the delay caused by the tanking issue meant there was a revised schedule  with 
a start date in November and due to end around 6 April 2018. I am mindful  that there were  some 
private works involved and these would have taken time. It might be that more contractors could  have 
been brought  in and this wouldnt extend the time as works  could be done simultaneously with insured 
works. In all the circumstances Im satisfied that 6 April 2018, as the revised end date covered Mrs M 
works that needed to be done.
Additional information that Mrs Ms representative  has provided includes  issues she had with the 
contractor who was instructed through a tender process led by her appointed surveyor. I dont intend 
to rehearse the details behind the issues but they inevitably led to further delay because of, among 
other things,  the contractors  reliability. There were also issues with payment and these led to 
potential and actual litigation. Mrs Ms main point is that had Cova agreed to pay for the tanking in 
early July 2017 then the delay that ensued would  very likely  not have occurred. I dont agree  that its 
as straightforward as that because of the issues Mrs M experienced with the contractor albeit I do 
accept that it would, in all likelihood, have been completed  sooner than it actually  was.
Mrs M is claiming for costs  up to mid-August  2018, which  is way beyond the scheduled end date. I am 
mindful that there were issues with the contractors  reliability  in turning up for full days and 
consistently. Taking everything into account Im satisfied it is fair to hold Cova responsible for 
appropriate costs and consequences  up to 6 April 2018.
Mrs M has also outlined a number of costs which  she says she is out of pocket  for as a result of the 
delay and include; alternative accommodation,  utilities, a damaged garden and storage. Cova has 
said that it is currently reviewing all costs and sundries  and awaits the final invoices from the 
surveyor. And during  the course of this complaint Cova has paid further monies to Mrs M.
Ideally it would  be preferable to come to a resolution on all issues in this case. I am mindful that 
without final invoices from the surveyor then its almost impossible for Cova to accurately  reflect  on 
what should be paid as part of Mrs M works as there other private works  involved too. However,  the 
complaint form as submitted  by Mrs M and as sent to Cova includes the issues Mrs M was unhappy 
with and wanted to be covered (tanking  system,  accommodation, storage, postal redirection and any 
fees from the contractor for delays).
additional costs
To put things right Mrs M has detailed various costs incurred that she feels  Cova should pay and this 
amounts to around £68,000.  Given the number  of items I will set out my provisional thoughts  in italics 
below each point made by Mrs M:
Accommodation
Cova has apparently paid 24 weeks but Mrs M is seeking  an additional 42 weeks at £30,100.
Ref: DRN645907912Cova has paid alternative accommodation up to 28 October  2017. The costs as submitted 
by Mrs M from that point to 6 April 2018 amount  to £15,850 and so thats what  Cova should 
pay. Mrs M has paid £1,600 and so 8% simple  interest should be added  from 2 December  
2017 on that amount.  The remaining money hasnt been  paid and so no interest is payable.
Removal and storage
Cova has apparently paid around £1,258 but Mrs M is seeking an additional  amount of £1,972.
These costs  all fell prior to 6 April 2018  and Im satisfied that Cova should  pay £1,972 with 
interest from the date the invoices  were paid (Mrs M to provide evidence of payment).
Postal re direction
Cova has apparently paid £70 but Mrs M is seeking  an additional amount of £150.
Up to 6 April the additional cost is around £80 and thats what  Cova should pay with interest 
from 21 September 2017.
Water
Cova has apparently paid around £93 but Mrs M is seeking an additional  amount of £448.05.
Having looked at the bills Mrs M has provided  I see that they largely involve standing  
quarterly charges  and unmeasured readings. The homeowner has the responsibility to pay 
these standing  charges whether they live in the property or not. So Im not persuaded that its 
fair in this case to require Cova  to pay more  than it has. If Mrs M has paid water charges in 
the alternative accommodation that are demonstrably not included in the weekly/monthly rent 
then I think its fair to ask Cova to pay that amount. But on the evidence  Ive been provided  
with to date Im not intending to make any award  against Cova  on the water issue.
Electricity
Cova hasnt paid anything so Mrs M is seeking £92.92.
The amount claimed is relatively  small and the invoices provided show payment includes  a 
standing charge. I think it would  be reasonable  to require Cova to pay for units used by the 
contractor in carrying  out Mrs M works  as thats a cost in putting  right the damage.  I dont 
appear to have that information in full but I accept that some  electricity would have  been 
used. In the circumstances I think £50 is a reasonable amount.
Tanking and related  works
Its not clear whether Cova has paid anything but Mrs M is seeking £29,554.70. This consists of the 
following elements;
Solid concrete floor £7,552.84
Type  C tanking system  £6,305.20
Contractors costs (prolongation) £6,500
Soil pipe adjustment to avoid tanking system £1,072.24
Insulation and sanding to cavity membrane £2,498.40
Additional work to install ducting and extractors to avoid penetrating tanking system and 
comply with building regulations £1,771.06
Contract administration fee (15%).
1.Mrs M says the concrete  floor was required for the tanking  system  if it was then its fair to 
require Cova to pay this amount  as well as the tanking  system cost. This comes to 
£13,858.04. This is broadly in line with the original estimate  from the expert in June 2017 and 
Im satisfied that this should be covered  by Cova. From the information  Ive been provided  
Mrs M hasnt  paid these amounts personally,  fortunately a family  member has. I appreciate 
Mrs M will have  to pay this money  back but shes not out of pocket  until she pays  that money  
and so Im not asking  Cova  to pay interest.
Ref: DRN6459079132.Mrs M has explained the contractors  costs  as  charges are for the time taken  on site by 
the contractor and are a direct result of the disruption  caused by Cova in refusing to 
reinstate the tanking  system. I take this to mean its akin to a penalty for things  like not 
being able to do work as contracted because  of issues like delay. I accept  that Im not expert 
in this area but its not unusual for there to be clauses  like this built in to contracts  as a 
contractor would  want  to protect themselves should a contract be time defined  and the other 
contracting party frustrates completion  because of their delay. I dont have enough evidence 
to show  that this amount  was a result  of the delay  Cova caused  up to 6 April 2018. And Im 
aware that there has been or is contemplated litigation  which is likely  to be relevant to this 
point. In the circumstances Im not minded to make an award against Cova for the 
prolongation cost.
3.The elements relating  to the soil pipe, insulation and ducting were, according to Mrs M, 
necessary because of the tanking system work. As Im not an expert in this field I cant  say 
whether that is correct.  Mrs Ms surveyor could attest  to this as could Covas  loss adjuster. If 
these works  were  necessary  or at least proportionate because  of the tanking system works 
then Id expect Cova to cover these. But I dont have sufficient information to make a 
conclusion. If Cova doesnt believe it should cover these costs  then it must  provide 
information in response to this provisional  decision  to explain why. Equally,  Mrs M can 
provide something  from either the contractor or surveyor to explain why these works were  
necessary or proportionate in reply.  
4.Contract Administrators fee  I understand such a fee was payable and so Cova should pay 
15% on points 1 and 3. Point 2 is excluded by me for the reasons  explained in point 2.
Underfloor heating  increased cost
Mrs M explained that she had agreed to have underfloor  heating installed that shed  pay for as private 
works at a cost of £6,266.00. But because of the delay  that ensued she had to make alternative 
arrangements and this cost an additional £4,001.69 which she wants  Cova to pay.
Ive seen a letter (dated July 2017) from the local electricity supplier which  contains a 
quotation for installation of a boiler and wet underfloor  heating. Ive not seen evidence that 
this quotation was accepted  by Mrs M or a planned installation date agreed. And Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me Mrs M couldnt have asked  for a new quote from the electricity 
company post-September when the works re-commenced. So Im not persuaded that Covas  
delay necessarily  directly caused Mrs M to incur an additional cost. As such, Im not 
persuaded that Cova should pay anything in relation  to this.
Garden
The garden  was damaged as a result  of the works  carried  out to the house where materials  were 
stored and builders worked. Cova has apparently  paid £850 but Mrs M is seeking  an additional 
amount of £580.
Ive seen an email  from a gardening service that breaks down the total cost of £1,430 to 
include rubbish clearance, turf, fertiliser,  gravel  and labour. The garden was damaged  as a 
result of the planned works. Even though private works  were carried  out Im satisfied the 
garden would have  been  in the same or very similar  damaged condition on Mrs M works 
alone. So Im satisfied  that Cova should pay the full cost. If Mrs M can provide evidence that 
she has paid more than £850 to the gardening  service then Cova should pay that amount 
with interest from the date of payment.  
I acknowledge that Covas error in relation to the decision about the tanking system has had an 
impact on Mrs M. Works should have been completed sooner than they were and this has meant 
having to move temporary accommodation unnecessarily  and asking family  members to lend money  
and help out. I accept this is frustrating and embarrassing. While Mrs Ms husband has taken  on 
representing Mrs M both to Cova  and us I cant make an award of compensation  to him as the policy  
is in Mrs Ms name  only. And I understand hes been caused considerable stress in trying to get 
Ref: DRN645907914things resolved. Recognising the impact the delay  has had on Mrs M alone over a lengthy period of 
time Im satisfied that Cova  should pay her £1,000 compensation.
my provisional  decision
Having thought carefully about all the information Im currently satisfied its fair and reasonable  to 
uphold this complaint. To put things right Im minded to require  Cova to do the following:
Pay Mrs M accommodation related costs of £15,850  adding simple interest at 8% per year to 
£1,600 from 2 December 2017 to the date Cova issues its payment.
Pay Mrs M removal and storage costs of £1,972 with interest from 1 January  2018 to the date 
Cova issues its payment.
Pay Mrs M postal re-direction costs  of £80 with interest  from 21 September 2017 to the date 
Cova issues its payment.
Pay Mrs M an electricity contribution of £50.
Pay Mrs M the Tanking and related works as follows;
oSolid concrete floor £7,552.84
oType  C tanking system  £6,305.20
Pay Mrs M the elements relating to the soil pipe, insulation and ducting ONLY  if they were  
necessary or proportionate (that is where  the redirecting had to be done otherwise  the new 
tanking system would be compromised).  
oImportantly though  if Cova doesnt believe it should cover these costs  then it must  
provide information in response to this provisional decision to explain why. 
oMrs M can provide  something  from either the contractor or surveyor to explain why 
these works  were  necessary  or proportionate if she wishes.  
Pay Mrs M the Contract Administrators fee of 15% on;
othe tanking system cost of £13,858.04.
othe soil pipe, insulation and ducting  ONLY if they were necessary or proportionate
Pay Mrs M the full garden costs IF she can provide  evidence that she has paid more  than 
£850 to the gardening  service company, adding interest from the date Mrs M paid this cost to 
the date Cova issues its payment. 
Pay Mrs M £1,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Ill consider any further replies  from the parties that I receive by the date stated at the top of this 
decision.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6459079