K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold  a Reward  Platinum Account (RPA) by The Royal Bank  
of Scotland Plc (RBS).
background
Mr D had a Select Platinum account  from June 2015.
Mr D says that RBS misled him when he upgraded to an RPA in December 2016. He says 
he was badly advised and mis-informed about  a £250 overdraft buffer that came with the 
RPA.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Mr D disagrees  with that outcome so the 
case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D says he only paid the extra monthly charge for the RPA from December 2016 because  
he was told he would  have an additional £250  buffer over and above his £2500 agreed 
overdraft limit if he took out the RPA.
He says RBS appeared to give this to him for many months as all his payments from the 
account were honoured even if he was slightly over his £2500 limit. Then  RBS began to 
decline payments  when he was over his agreed overdraft of £2500 and this cost him charges 
from other parties. Mr D wants the fees he paid for the RPA and the charges from the other 
parties re-imbursed by RBS.
I will consider  firstly  what RBS was required to do when it sold the RPA to Mr D in December 
2016. Mr D says that RBS recommended the RPA to him. RBS says that this was a non-
advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the RPA to Mr D personally or advise  
him to take it. 
Both RBS and Mr D agree  the sale was done  over the phone.  RBS says it doesnt have a 
recording of the call. I accept its possible that in providing information to Mr D and explaining 
the benefits of the RPA, RBS may have said or implied that it was a good idea for him to take 
it out. But this isnt the same as a personal recommendation. I dont have any evidence  such 
as a record of a review  of Mr Ds circumstances  to suggest advice was given by RBS.  So 
based on this services knowledge  of RBSs sales practices at the time,  I think  its more likely  
than not that RBS sold the RPA to Mr D on an information only basis.
This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the RPA was suitable for Mr D but it did have to 
provide him with good enough  information about the account so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not. 
Ref: DRN61772852Ive looked at the written information  on the RPA that RBS says it provided  to Mr D and I think 
its clear that the £250 buffer  is not in addition to an agreed overdraft. And its also clear  that 
once over the £250 overdraft buffer, interest  is charged on the whole overdraft.
I accept that as Mr D says, RBS didnt  refuse  to honour  any of his payments when he slightly  
exceeded his limit for some time after the sale.
But in order to uphold  Mr Ds complaint I would need to decide  that RBS misled him into 
thinking that the £250 buffer was over and above  his £2500 agreed  limit. I dont doubt  Mr Ds 
honest recollections, but I think  his memory  is mistaken. I think  its more  likely than not that 
RBS didnt mislead him and Ill explain why. 
In my view I think its more likely  than not that the RBS staff member understood the product 
being sold as the staff were trained to sell the RPAs. And this service  doesnt have any 
systemic evidence that RBS deliberately  mis-sold RPAs by misrepresenting the £250 buffer. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr D received the written information about  the RPA as this 
was part of RBSs  usual sales procedure. And as the overdraft was very important to him, I 
think he wouldve read the relevant parts related to it. Ive found above that this was an 
information only sale, so it was for Mr D to decide  if the RPA was right for him. 
So in my view, Mr D has not lost out as result of RBS doing anything wrong and although I 
know hell be disappointed I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6177285