K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold them  a packaged 
bank account  it called  a Current Account Plus (CAP) in 2011.
background
Mr and Mrs S came  to the UK to work and they needed a bank account. They initially  took 
out a fee paying account  with another bank but then also took out a fee paying CAP with 
Barclays in July 2011.
Mr and Mrs S say that they spoke and read very little English in 2011 and they say they 
werent told a fee free account was available to them. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the CAP but Barclays  disagrees so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt understand English at all well in 2011  and it wasnt  made clear 
to them  by Barclays that they could  have had a fee free bank  account.  They  say that if theyd 
known a fee free account was available they wouldnt  have bought the CAP.
Barclays says Mr and Mrs S filled in an application  form for the CAP,  and signed to 
acknowledge a number  of things including that they understood  a fee free account was 
available. Barclays says that Mr and Mrs S registered their mobile phones for the insurance 
cover immediately after the sale which in its view indicated  they understood what they were  
buying.
So the key issue  in this complaint I have to decide  on is whether Mr and Mrs S were  given a 
proper choice or not when they bought the CAP.
I dont think they were and Ill explain why.
In my view you need a good  standard of speaking and reading English to understand  the 
various types of bank  account available and to fill in the documentation required to open an 
account. 
Mr and Mrs S say their standard of speaking  and writing English  was poor. I find this credible 
as it is not their first language, and although by 2011  they had been  in this country for a 
significant period,  its not uncommon  for people not to develop their language skills for some 
time when  living  in another country. Barclays has not provided any evidence that it 
communicated with them in their own language either speaking  or in writing.  
Barclays says that as Mr and Mrs S registered  their mobile phones for insurance, they must 
have understood  the conversation they were having.  But as Ill explain  later the mobile  
phone insurance  was the main feature of the CAP and was something theyd had previously. 
Ref: DRN66859912And the fact they understood the mobile phone insurance benefit and used it doesnt mean 
they understood that a fee free account  was available. 
I also note that many  years later they requested correspondence with this service  in their 
own language  to make  their complaint.
So I think its more likely  than not that there was a substantial language communication  
barrier between Mr and Mrs S and Barclays at the time of the sale. 
In Mr and Mrs Ss home country, it was usual for fees to be paid for bank accounts. So I 
think Mr and Mrs S wouldve needed  it drawn  to their attention that they could choose to take 
out a fee free bank  account. 
Mr and Mrs S acknowledge  that they had a fee paying bank account with another  bank at 
the time of the CAP sale and have  provided details of it. The main benefits included  travel 
insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile  phone  insurance and it cost £9.95 a month.  
Barclays record of the discussion with Mr and Mrs S shows  that they were on a very low 
income. In their situation I find it credible that Mr and Mrs S took out the first fee paying 
account with the other bank because they thought they had to pay a fee. And I note that 
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about that to the other bank  successfully.
So I think its more likely  than not that they still thought they had to pay a fee for an account 
when they approached Barclays  and, as Ive said above, language in communication  was 
still a challenge  for them.
The CAP cost £5 a month  at the time of sale but shortly after went up to £6.50 a month.  The 
CAP benefits  did not include travel insurance  or car breakdown  cover.
Ive reviewed the application form and demands and needs summary that Barclays  has 
provided and which  Mr and Mrs S signed at the time. Whilst I can see that a series of boxes 
had big tick marks against them, its a substantial document  and for the reasons Ive given 
above I think its plausible that Mr and Mrs S werent able to understand what  they were  
signing.
In moving from the account they had with another bank to the CAP,  Mr and Mrs S were  
losing two key benefits that they could use, namely  the travel  insurance and the car 
breakdown cover and saving less than half the cost. So in their circumstances with their low 
income I think its more likely  than not that they were  doing this to save money,  rather than 
because they thought  the CAP was a better  deal.  If they particularly wanted the mobile 
phone insurance  they could have  got that separately for a lower  price rather  than take out 
the CAP. And there is no evidence that they benefitted otherwise from the account  in any 
significant way. 
So I think its more likely  than not that If Mr and Mrs S had known a fee free account was 
available they would  have chosen that and it follows that I dont think they were  given  a clear 
choice whether to take out the CAP as opposed to a fee free account.
So I think Mr and Mrs S lost out when Barclays sold them a CAP in 2011.
Ref: DRN66859913putting things right
I require Barclays to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the CAP.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs S have  saved money because  of a better rate on an overdraft or loan by 
having the packaged account and Barclays can show exactly  how much Mr and Mrs S 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays them  but only after it has 
calculated the two points above.  Barclays must  explain clearly  and simply to 
Mr and Mrs S how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6685991