K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt act fairly or reasonably  when dealing  
with her request  for a mortgage statement or in relation to insurance premiums paid in 
connection with the mortgage. She wants to understand how Barclays  came to offer her 
£250 compensation and an explanation  about the insurance premiums.
background
Mrs R had a mortgage  with a business owned  by Barclays, which was paid off in full in 2000. 
Mrs R says that from 2016, shed been unsuccessful in her attempts to get a mortgage 
statement for this mortgage until December 2018.  She felt that this wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Mrs R also said that within the mortgage statement was a reference to insurance  premiums 
and she didnt know anything about  it.
Mrs R complained to Barclays. It said as the mortgage had been closed a long time ago, it 
no longer had a copy  of the mortgage  statements  prepared while it existed. Barclays  
accepted that it had given  poor customer service  by taking so long to supply  the information 
it did have, particularly as Mrs R had made  several  requests. It paid £250 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused by its delay.
Mrs R complained to us. The investigators view was that Mrs R first asked in June 2016 for 
details about her closed mortgage,  and chased in November 2016. Both times she was 
asked to visit a branch  to prove  her identity. Mrs R didnt visit a branch until January  2018. At 
that point, the investigator said that Barclays explained that it didnt hold the original 
statements any more, but could manually set out the information  it held.  She noted that 
Mrs R chased Barclays several times  throughout 2018 for this information until it was 
supplied in December.  The investigator  thought £250 compensation was fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances, especially  given how long the mortgage  account had been closed. 
She also explained that due to the passage of time, it wasnt possible to find out anything 
about the insurance, and that this wasnt unfair  or unreasonable as records  only had to be 
kept for six years.
Mrs R disagreed. She felt Barclays shouldve  dealt with her request for a mortgage  
statement more quickly and she wanted  to know more about the insurance premiums. The 
investigator said that if Mrs R thought she might have a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
claim, she should make such a claim,  but from her experience in the field,  the insurance  
premiums didnt look like PPI. She didnt change her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Until Mrs R proved  her identity in January 2018, it was fair and reasonable for Barclays  not 
to provide any information for a former customer.  And theres no dispute that Barclays 
couldnt provide  documents it no longer held, and that it took too long to provide what  it could 
to Mrs R. She had to chase the matter several  times. But money never truly compensates  for 
trouble and upset,  and the delay was about a year, not two and a half years.  In all the 
circumstances, I think  £250  compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN67973102I appreciate that Mrs R would like an explanation about the insurance premiums. But 
businesses are only required  to keep their records for six years,  and the mortgage was 
closed in 2000. Barclays doesnt  have  the information in order to give an explanation.  I cant 
require a business to give an explanation when it no longer holds  the information.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6797310