K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr J says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to him with a credit card, in 2002.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr J has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
I was sent a copy of Mr Js credit card application  form and under a section which  says 
Optional Features  I can see Mr J was given  two choices about the PPI. He could either  tick 
a box to have  it  or a box not to have it. Mr J ticked the yes box and so I think this is strong 
evidence he wanted  the policy and would have known it wasnt something he needed to 
have.
Mr J signed the form so I think its clear he agreed  to the PPI. 
I also note that he was sent monthly  credit card statements and that the PPI was being  
regularly charged  and shown on these. They described it as Cardholder  Protection Plan. 
So as well as choosing  the PPI cover and signing the form, I think  Mr J would have been 
able to see the policy had been set up on his account. I think if he hadnt asked for it, he 
would have wanted to know what the charges  were  for.
Lloyds concedes it recommended the PPI cover with the credit  card so this means it was 
under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Js situation. I looked at his age, job, 
health and general circumstances to help me decide about this. 
I think that Mr J was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught  by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  Over the years  he had it, the cost 
was between £0.59 and £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Js card. 
Ive seen nothing  that suggests  he would have found these monthly charges unaffordable.
I think any sickness protection Mr J had with his job would have been quite moderate. 
Nevertheless, Ive thought  carefully about his entire  circumstances  and any other  means he 
might have had at that time. But I havent seen anything that necessarily means the PPI 
wasnt suitable for Mr J. In the event of a successful  claim for example, he wouldve been 
able to have his outstanding balance reduced  by 5% each month for up to 12 months. These 
benefits were accessible  in addition to any other means he already had in place  at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was suitable for him.
Ref: DRN64569952Lloyds also had to give Mr J clear  information.  After such a long time I cant  confirm  he was 
told everything he shouldve been told. But as this was a branch sale,  I think there  would 
have been a discussion before Mr J said he wanted  to go ahead  with the policy.  So I think he 
probably had enough  information on which to make an informed decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456995