K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S is seeking to recover £20,000  from TSB Bank plc which  was stolen from her bank due 
to a third-party scam.
TSB Bank plc says theyre  not liable for the loss because  Mrs S authorised the payment and 
it could not reasonably have intervened or done more  to try to recoup the money from the 
receiving bank. 
Background
Both TSB and Mrs S accept that Mrs S authorised the two scam payments totalling £20,000. 
And she was duped by the scammers  into transferring the funds to them.  They deceived 
Mrs S into thinking she was investing in a genuine  FCA approved investment company Ill 
call A. Unfortunately for Mrs S she was in fact speaking with scammers whod cloned  the 
genuine investment  company and persuaded her to invest £20,000 in the form of two 
payments. Both payments  were  for £10,000 with Mrs S investing  £10,000  via a branch 
transfer in January 2019 then the same amount via an online transfer in February  2019. 
Mrs S believed that she was investing in a monthly  income plan  and after the second 
investment Mrs S received a dividend instalment payment from the scammers making her 
believe the investment  was genuine. However  Mrs S became suspicious after not receiving 
her second  monthly  dividend and on being  unable to contact the scammers. 
At this point Mrs S contacted TSB to raise  a complaint.  
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. He said that TSB had 
asked Mrs S appropriate questions and there wasnt anything to indicate Mrs S had fallen 
victim to a scam. He also thought TSB had done  enough to attempt to recover the funds.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings.  So its come to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I realise this will disappointment 
Mrs S, but in doing so Ive reached the same  conclusion  as our investigator  for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I accept that both transfers were authorised payments even though Mrs S was the victim  of 
a sophisticated  scam.  Mrs S used her security  credentials to request the payment. So, 
although she didnt  intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs S is considered  to be 
liable for the loss in the first instance.  
But this isnt the end of the story. I also need to take into account the law, regulators rules  
and guidance,  relevant  codes and practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. In summary this says that TSB have a responsibility  to monitor accounts 
and payments made to, amongst other  things,  prevent fraud  and scams.  And they need to 
have systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate  
its customers are at risk of fraud. TSB also have responsibilities to protect  customers  from 
financial crime. 
Ref: DRN61627912However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Mrs S made the first payment in branch in January 2019. Ive thought  about  what happened 
in branch when  Mrs S visited  and whether I think TSB did enough to identify if the 
transaction was suspicious. After reviewing the evidence, and I realise this may disappoint  
Mrs S, I think TSB did. Theres a dispute between the bank and Mrs S about exactly what 
happened when  Mrs S visited the branch in January  2019 and made the payment. Ive seen 
documentation provided by TSB which states  Mrs S was asked  if shed previously invested 
in A to which she replied  she had. Mrs S contests this, and asks why shed say this 
considering this wasnt the case. Mrs S instead argues that she asked TSB if A was a 
genuine company or not and the bank responded yes. Its not possible for me to determine 
exactly what happened when Mrs S visited the branch,  but I need to reach  my conclusions  
on what I think most likely  happened. I understand that Mrs S is adamant she wasnt asked 
whether shed paid A before and therefore  didnt  advise TSB of this. But, I find the evidence 
Ive seen from TSB persuasive.  I say this because its a document  completed at the time of 
Mrs Ss bank  transfer, and on balance  I cant see a plausible reason why TSB would have  a 
record of this conversation if it didnt  happen  in the way it was recorded.  
This is important to my conclusions  because it impacts on what Id expect TSB to do in the 
circumstances. If, as I think  on balance occurred, Mrs S informed TSB that shed made a 
payment to A before  I dont think there  were  sufficient reasons for TSB to identify the first 
transaction as an unusual  transaction. It was a larger  than usual transaction for Mrs S, which  
is a factor  TSB should have considered,  however once they were informed that Mrs S had 
made a previously made a payment to A I wouldnt expect  it, on its own, to be enough to 
raise suspicions  within the bank. 
Even if TSB had asked  further questions at their meeting with Mrs S, I dont think  this would 
have impacted on whether they identified  the transaction as unusual  and led to advice from 
the bank to Mrs S to not make  the payment. I say this because unfortunately the 
documentation Mrs S received  from the fraudsters was very convincing.  The cloned  
documentation included  an accurate Financial  Services Registration number and a warning 
about the firm being  unregulated wasnt added by the FCA until March 2020. Mrs S has also 
explained that her husband had checked the register and searched for any warnings  
therefore if TSB had asked what research Mrs S had completed  I think its likely she would 
have reassured  the bank  that shed carried out research  to check the legitimacy of the 
business. 
Ref: DRN61627913Ive moved on to consider the second authorised payment for £10,000 which  was made  in 
February 2019 via online  bank transfer. This payment wasnt picked up as suspicious by 
TSB and the bank  didnt ask Mrs S any questions  about its purpose or the intended 
recipient. However,  its important for me to think about whether or not this payment should 
have triggered  TSBs  fraud awareness  systems and led them  to identify the payment as an 
unusual transaction.  I realise this will disappoint  Mrs S but Im satisfied that the payment 
wasnt sufficiently out of character for TSB to act. I say this because  the payment was made  
to the same  payee  details as the first payment and wasnt for an unusually large amount in 
comparison to Mrs Ss previous activity   considering the previous transaction of £10,000 in 
January 2019.  And I cant see any other  factors  which  would lead me to conclude TSB 
should have approached Mrs S to discuss the legitimacy of the payment. For this reason I 
wouldnt have expected the transaction to trigger TSBs fraud detection  systems. 
Did TSB do enough when notified about the scam?
TSB have  advised that initially on being  notified  by Mrs S about the scam they used the 
wrong bank details when contacting the receiving  bank,  Bank  N. And unfortunately by the 
time TSB made contact with the receiving bank the funds were  irretrievably  removed by the 
scammers. However  and I realise this will be very disappointing to Mrs S  Im satisfied 
that if TSB had made contact sooner it wouldnt have made a difference because Bank Ns 
record show that the funds were  withdrawn within 24 hours  of arrival. 
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I wont be asking TSB to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6162791