K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Allied  Irish Banks Plc (AIB)  has unfairly applied a late payment marker  
to his credit  file and failed  to remove it after saying it would.  
background
Mr P has a credit card with AIB which he hadnt  used for several months. When he started 
using the card again in December 2017, he didnt  make  any arrangements  to pay the 
minimum amount due as he thought his existing  direct debit instructions would still work. 
And on 12 January  2018 the funds  left his current account. However, payment was returned  
to his bank a few days  later. 
Mr P made the payment  manually but as the payment was later than the due date, AIB 
reported a late payment  to the credit  referencing agencies. 
AIB said the funds were  returned because the direct debit  hadnt  been used for over 13 
months and so it had become dormant. It said under the relevant rules,  the account  holding 
bank couldnt  accept the payment and so it was returned. AIB said it hadnt done anything  
wrong. But to put things  right for Mr P, it agreed to remove the late payment from his credit  
file. 
Mr P complained to our service because AIB hadnt  replied to his letter asking if it would 
remove the late payment  marker from all credit reference agencies. One of our investigators 
contacted AIB, who apologised for failing to reply  to Mr P and reassured  him it would remove 
the late payment  marker. But Mr P has let us know that his credit file still shows  a late 
payment. 
Our investigator tried to contact AIB to discuss this further but it didnt reply. So she asked it 
to remove the late payment  marker  and pay compensation of £100 for the distress  caused to 
Mr P as a result of failing to do what it said it would do. AIB didnt reply.
As AIB hasnt replied  to our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was Mr Ps responsibility to pay his credit card account on time. As it wasnt paid on time,  
strictly speaking  it wasnt wrong for AIB to note a late payment. And the late payment wasnt  
caused by something  AIB did wrong  at the time  the payment was returned  unpaid because 
the direct  debit was dormant.
But from Mr Ps point  of view, he thought payment would be made   as far as he was aware, 
he had a direct debit payment in place. And his statement  from AIB said,  under the minimum 
payment due details,  your account  payment  will be made by direct debit which  confirmed 
his belief. He didnt realise  that the direct debit wouldnt work because  it had become  
dormant.
Ref: DRN69886222In any event, AIB agreed to write  to the credit reference agency and ask for the negative 
record to be removed, so he expected  this to happen. Where  a business says it will do 
something, its reasonable for a customer to think it will be done. It was very frustrating for 
Mr P to keep checking his credit record and see the record hadnt been  amended  despite  
promises this would  happen. Even  after our investigator asked AIB to do this it still didnt 
happen. 
Taking all the circumstances into account  I dont think its fair for Mr P to be left with a late 
payment record on his credit file. So I agree  that the fair thing to do is for AIB to contact the 
credit reference agency  as it had agreed  to do  and ask for the late payment record  to be 
corrected. And the fact this has been going on since last year has put him to some trouble 
trying to get it resolved, and added to his distress, so its fair that AIB should compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
putting things right 
To put things right for Mr P, AIB should  
ask the relevant credit reference agencies  to amend the negative  score;  and
pay him £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Allied  Irish Banks Plc to take the 
action set out above: 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6988622