K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) did not do enough to help 
him when  he was the victim of a scam. 
background
Mr B was in communication with a music  retailer and decided  to make a purchase with them. 
They sent him the payment details  via e-mail and Mr B made a payment  of £2,294 through 
online banking on 20 January 2019. A few days later,  he hadnt received much  of a response  
from the retailer and contacted them again  by e-mail. They got back to Mr B and confirmed 
the payment details  he had quoted were incorrect. Unfortunately, it appeared that the music 
retailers e-mail account had been hacked  and a scammer had input new account details.
Mr B contacted RBS to make them aware hed been scammed on 25 January  2019. RBS 
contacted the beneficiary bank within an hour to request a return  of Mr Bs funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to say none of Mr Bs funds  were  remaining 
to return to him. Mr B was unhappy  with this and felt RBS  response to him was 
condescending, he was also unhappy that the CEO had not agreed to have a meeting with 
him about the issue. So, he referred  the complaint  to our service. 
Our adjudicator investigated and felt that RBS had acted reasonably  when it followed Mr Bs 
instruction and processed the payment of £2,294. And she thought that RBS acted quickly  to 
try and recover Mr Bs funds, and she didnt  think it needed to do more  in the circumstances 
to resolve the complaint. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint. 
Because an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Ref: DRN67853002Regulated firms like RBS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence  (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether RBS acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with  
Mr B when he made the online  payment  of £2,294,  or whether it should have done more  
than it did. 
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Mr B has been the victim of scam and Im sorry that hes 
had to go through this experience. Situations like this are never easy to deal with and I 
appreciate how frustrating this must have been  for him. When  reviewing  Mr Bs complaint, 
Ive focussed  on the actions  of RBS and whether they were  appropriate  in the 
circumstances. 
Having done so, I do feel that it was reasonable for RBS to process  Mr Bs transaction  of 
£2,294 without any additional checks or questions. And I think  RBS acted quickly  to try and 
recover the funds  once they were  aware of the scam. Ill explain why in more detail.
Both parties  agree that Mr B authorised the payment of £2,294  himself.  Because  of this, 
RBS had an obligation to process  the payment in line with Mr Bs instruction. But as I 
explained above, there are some situations  in which a bank should reasonably take a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding  a payment,  for example, if its particularly unusual. 
To determine this, Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements for the months leading  up to the 
transfer in question. I can see that Mr B had made  a number of online  transfers  and faster 
payments previously, some for more than the payment in question. So, I dont think  the 
payment type or value was particularly  out of character for Mr B. On balance,  having 
Ref: DRN67853003compared the transaction to Mr Bs general account activity, I dont think  it was so unusual 
that it should have flagged as suspicious. So, I dont think  RBS system failed in its 
obligations when  it didnt refer the payment  for further questioning or checks. So, I dont think 
it needs to refund Mr B with the £2,294.
Mr B raised a scam  case with RBS on 25 January 2019. I can see that RBS contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  within  the space of an hour to request a return  of the funds. This is done  on 
a best endeavours basis, so theres  no guarantee of a refund. Unfortunately, all of Mr Bs 
funds were removed by the end of the day on 22 January, which  was three  days  before RBS 
were aware of the scam.  So, I dont  think  RBS could have  done  more in the circumstances 
to recover Mr Bs funds. 
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account were not the responsibility  of RBS, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. So, contacting the beneficiary  bank to try and retrieve the money  was all RBS 
could do to help Mr B at that stage.
Having carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think RBS decision not to 
refund Mr B in this instance is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, but I think it was reasonable for RBS to follow  Mr Bs instruction to 
make the payment and I havent  seen  any reason  why it shouldnt  have  done  this. And I 
think it took appropriate steps to try and recover the funds once it was notified of the scam.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6785300