K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Nextcredit Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about a short term loan Nextcredit provided to Mr G in 2016. Mr G 
borrowed £550 over a period of 170 days.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  the loan shouldnt have been  given. 
Nextcredit disagreed  and the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Nextcredit needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Nextcredit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nextcredit was required to establish  
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
Ref: DRN67545272having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Nextcredit gathered  information about Mr Gs finances before it approved  the loan, including 
a check of his credit  file. Nextcredit shouldve responded  appropriately to the information  it 
gathered. The business has said that when it reviewed Mr Gs credit file, it noted that his 
level of debt was higher  than hed declared on his loan application.  
It seems  Mr G also had a number of open short  term loans when he applied for his loan with 
Nextcredit.
Nextcredit has said the credit check was just a snapshot in time.  I agree that it was. But even 
so, the results should have prompted it to check whether Mr Gs circumstances had radically 
improved during the month since the date of the check. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that 
Nextcredit made further enquiries about  Mr Gs circumstances,  or that those circumstances 
had improved. 
Nextcredit points out that Mr G was borrowing a relatively small proportion  of his net income. 
And that despite  the level of unsecured debt and number  of short-term loans he had, he was 
managing to repay what he owed. Ive noted everything Nextcredit has said.
But I consider the number  of open short-term  loans Mr G had when he took out his loan with 
Nextcredit was significant. I think this, together with the level of unsecured  debt Mr G had,  
shouldve been  an indicator to Nextcredit  that he might not be able to sustainably  repay the 
loan he was taking  out.
For that reason,  I dont  think it was reasonable for Nextcredit to give Mr G the loan. So Im  
upholding the complaint  and Nextcredit  should  put things right.
putting things right  what Nextcredit needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Gs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nextcredit  to take off tax from this interest. Nextcredit  
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN67545273my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint.  Nextcredit Limited should pay 
Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6754527