K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr S had a British Gas policy that covered central heating and plumbing and drainage 
repairs. That was subject  to an excess or fixed fee. 
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
plumbing and drainage  company, engineers and others for whose actions I hold the 
insurance company  responsible.
Mr S called for help with a leak of water  in his upstairs bathroom. He complained  that  after 
visits from British Gas  he had suffered damage to the kitchen ceiling below.
In a final response letter, British Gas said it was sending a payment  of £130.00.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
there had been  a shortfall in the service. But her opinion  was that £130.00 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. She didnt think that there was enough information to 
suggest that British  Gas caused the damage to the ceiling.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
The shower pipe was blocked. British  Gas fixed the blockages.
When resolving the blocked  pipe, British  Gas caused a crack in a waste  pipe.
Mr S called British Gas again.  It had to cut a hole out of the kitchen roof. British Gas 
found the pipe had a crack and allowed  water  from the shower to escape  and cause  
ceiling damage.
He paid £30.00 for an engineer to come out and also a further £60.00 (a total of 
£90.00) to British  Gas.  £130.00  in return doesnt  make any sense.
He needs  more compensation to fix damage  British Gas caused  to his kitchen. That 
is a very serious health hazard now and its unsafe  to cook  as theres  heavy mould 
on the peeled  wall paper. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Leaks sometimes come from plumbing or drainage  that is concealed by surfaces  such  as 
floors, ceilings or walls.  The policy included cover  for making access  and  after a repair  
making the surface level. It didnt cover re-surfacing work such as re-tiling.  So British Gas 
had to ask for consent to proceed  with making  access through  a ceiling for example.
Ref: DRN67948622The policy didnt cover water damage unless British  Gas caused  it. And it didnt cover  
damage normally covered  by household  insurance.  The policy didnt cover showers. And it 
didnt cover items that had been  poorly installed.
From the renewal letter I see that the policy excess was £60.00
Mr S already  had a problem when he contacted British Gas on 27 December 2018. He had a 
water leak in the bathroom. Thats  why he contacted  British  Gas. From the British Gas 
records, I find that the leak had already caused some  damage to the celling below. That kind 
of damage is usually covered by home buildings insurance.
British Gas visited the next day. I cant say that was unreasonable. Mr S has referred to a 
replacement bag for the toilet  cistern.  And Ive seen  a photograph of a bag. Someone has 
annotated the photo to indicate a replacement. But I think  that means the replacement item 
was packaged  in the bag. From the records, I find that British  Gas replaced the toilet  fill 
valve. 
On 5 January  2019 Mr S reported that water  was still leaking through the celling. British Gas 
led Mr S to believe  it would visit on 7 January 2019. 
But British  Gas didnt  visit that day. Mr S hasnt provided enough  detail to show that he took 
time off work or lost earnings. But I accept that the broken  appointment caused  him extra  
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. 
British Gas visited on 10 January 2019  and tightened the bath overflow. It wanted to make  
access under the bath but Mr S didnt agree. No doubt Mr S or his wife used the bath after 
10 January. He reported that the leak had continued. 
British Gas visited again on 17 January 2019. This time Mr S agreed to British Gas making 
access under the bath.  And British Gas found a leaking  overflow pipe  which it repaired. I 
think that stopped the leak. I dont see how it couldve done so any sooner  given that Mr S 
hadnt consented to making access.
In the usual course of events, I think Mr S was waiting  for his celling to dry out before he 
redecorated.
Mr S contacted British  Gas again  about  a blocked  shower tray. It visited twice on 24 January 
2019. I accept  that  while using  a rotating device to clear  the blockage  - British Gas 
accidentally drilled  a hole in the flexible rubber waste pipe. 
As there was a blockage, I find it likely that there was an escape of water through  the hole. 
But I accept the statement  from British Gas that it repaired  that pipe the same day.
I think Mr S is attributing most or all of the water  damage to British  Gas. But Ive found hed 
had water damage since he first contacted British Gas in late December.  The leaks were  
from the toilet and the bath overflow  as well as from the hole in the flexible pipe. Mr S hasnt 
been able to show what damage happened when. 
So he hasnt been able to show that British Gas caused water damage to his ceiling. And 
that type of damage is usually covered by home buildings  insurance. So  keeping in mind  
the terms of the British  Gas policy - I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to 
pay any more than it has already paid Mr S.
Ref: DRN67948623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more is response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6794862