K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains of delays by his mortgagee Commercial First Mortgages Limited in dealing  
with his application for its consent to the grant  of a new lease of the commercial part of his 
property. 
background
Mr B occupies the upper  floor of his property and the ground  floor,  a shop,  is let. The 
property is mortgaged to CFM. 
Paragraph 5 of the legal charge says:
This Charge is granted by the Mortgagor to the Lender on the Commercial  First General 
Lending Terms and Conditions and the Mortgagor agrees to those Terms and Conditions.
The terms and conditions  say:
11.4 The Mortgagor  will not let or grant a licence or tenancy in respect of the Property, or 
any part of it (nor agree  to do so), without the prior written consent of the Lender.
11.5 Where the Property is subject to a licence  or tenancy the Mortgagor will not agree to 
any change in the terms of such licence or tenancy, nor agree to its termination, nor to any 
assignment or underletting of it, without the prior written consent of the Lender.
Despite this, Mr B didnt seek consent  from CFM  to let the ground floor shop.
On 5 December  2017 Mr Bs solicitors B&Co wrote to CFM:
We act for the registered freehold owner  of the above premises  Mr. B in connection with a 
grant of a new full repairing and insuring  protected Lease of the above Ground Floor  Off
Licence shop  premises for a new Term  of 20 years at an initial  Rent  of £10,000 per annum 
plus VAT subject to 5 yearly upward only market Rent Reviews. We note you hold a first
Legal Charge  against  our clients Freehold Title to the above premises (as per the official  
copy enclosed for ease of reference) and would  you please be good enough to let us have a 
note of your requirements  for issuing Consent to the registration  of the proposed  new Lease 
at the Land Registry? We have now agreed  Terms of the draft Lease with the proposed
Tenants Solicitors and we would therefore be very much obliged to hear from you at the 
earliest opportunity.
CFM replied:
Under the terms and conditions of the mortgage our consent  is required prior to the letting 
of the property. We must ensure  that the proposed  rental is in line with market  rental  values 
and that it provides adequate coverage of the mortgage repayments.  If the rental amount 
does not provide sufficient coverage we will require evidence of other  income to confirm  that 
any shortfall can be comfortably met.
.To process your application we will require:
 A full copy of the proposed lease.
Ref: DRN65665852 A cheque for £240 as payment of our administration fee. This fee is non-refundable  under 
any circumstances.
 If the rental  amount is in order we will instruct our solicitors to review the lease to ensure 
the terms within are acceptable  for our secured lending purposes.  Please therefore forward  
a cheque for £550 + VAT as payment of our solicitors fee. Solicitor  fees are non-refundable  
once the lease review  has been  completed.
Following some further correspondence  between Mr B and CFM about the fees payable for 
the application, CFM  wrote to B & Co on 15 December  2017:
Further to our recent correspondence on the proposed letting of the above property we are 
pleased to confirm  that the lease meets with our initial  underwriting requirements however, is 
still subject to our solicitors approval. We have now forwarded the matter to our solicitors, 
MB, who will review  the terms of the lease to ensure  that they are suitable for our secured 
lending purposes.
Evidently problems then arose, because on 3 May 2018 Mr B wrote to MB:
I have been advised by B & Co that there  are further delays and more money wanted. I 
want to lodge  a complaint with the level of service I have been receiving from MB. I am the 
mortgage payee, and I own the building. I am exhausted and fed up, as is the tenant.  The 
tenant is paying rent and is currently operating the business; the rent from the tenant is 
paying the monthly mortgage. You would like the mortgage payments to continue  or not?
I have been working  with B&Co, the tenant and his solicitors  since  August 2017 in getting 
this lease done! Get on with it and give me the lease, or you want  to repossess the building? 
I have been paying this mortgage since 2006, and not missed  a single payment, but you are 
threating this with your constant delays.
1. It should  not come  as a surprise that there  was, is, and will continue  to be a business 
attached to the premises.
2. If I made a mistake, and you were  not happy  with me using an alternative solicitor to 
arrange this lease, CFM  should have made an attempt to contact me directly to offer their 
services instead.
3. Over £1500 has already been spent,  I am not paying for more costs.  All costs have 
already been paid for.
4. I constantly have to make excuses for you to the tenant. You are making me look stupid!  
You are supposed to be my lender, so HELP ME!
5. You want  the mortgage paid? Stop messing about!
6. Your delays are forcing [sic] to think I should change lender.
On 4 May 2018  Mr B made a complaint to this service against CFM. He said 
My mortgage company are currently checking a new lease to enable  me to continue  letting  
the business part of my building. The rent is to enable me to continue paying the monthly 
mortgage payments.  This request was put to my mortgage company in 2017, and all fees 
paid. The people  looking  into the lease have not realised  the urgency of completing the 
evaluation, now they want more money  to continue looking  at the lease,  but now we are in 
2018. I have received a terrible service, they are stopping me from making my monthly  
mortgage payments.  I am very disappointed; I have been a customer  since  2006.
Ref: DRN65665853On 9 May 2018  CFM  responded to Mr B. It said:
As the tenant is already in place the terms and conditions of the mortgage  are currently 
technically in breach, however, we are fully aware  that you trying to regularise this.  
MBhave had to request  amendments to the lease that was presented  to ensure the 
standard terms of the lease fit the specific circumstances  of you and your own tenants 
position. We believe the approach taken by other parties of using a standard templated  
lease with standard clauses is acceptable  subject to the clauses being  tailored to fit the 
circumstances of the arrangements agreed between  the parties.
It is clear from some  of the emails  between your solicitor and MB that neither legal 
party are causing  the delays. The delays  appear  to be caused  by the tenants solicitors. MB 
are still awaiting the final version of the lease addressing the outstanding points.
.There appear to have  been delays between the tenants solicitors and your solicitors  but 
given that the tenant is in occupation presumably paying the rental agreed between you and 
them, we cannot  see that this has a significant impact on your ability to continue to pay the 
mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. He said that from the 
evidence which had been made  available  it looked  like the majority  of the delays were due to 
Mr Bs solicitors  and their delayed  responding times.
The responsibility for drafting the lease  would rest with Mr B and his tenant. CFM had said 
their role wasnt  to delay approving the lease,  but to make sure that there were no terms 
which could compromise  the value of the property. The investigator  could  understand why 
there may have been delays with Mr B having  to liaise with both his tenants solicitors  and 
also MB.
Mr B didnt accept this and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the case. He said hed 
spoken to his solicitors,  and theyd said it was MB who were to blame for the length of time it 
took to finalise the lease.  Hed lost the services  for management of the property by the 
estate agent, because of the length of time it took to finalise the lease. Hed been forced to 
continually manage  the tenant  and the commercial  property  without the assistance of a 
professional estate agent. His solicitors had offered a gesture of goodwill payment after he 
complained. CFM must be held accountable, their fees should either be refunded  or 
reduced.
In response to Mr Bs complaint to his own solicitors B&Co, they wrote to him on 
29 January 2019:
The position is that you are the freeholder .You occupy the upper part  and the ground  
floor is subject to a commercial lease.  On 31 August 2017 you spoke to [us] regarding  the 
proposal by the ground floor lessee to assign his lease to a new buyer.  Apparently  you had 
met the buyer and did not require references or any rent deposit and you were prepared  to 
grant licence  to assign.  
Although this should have  been  a relatively  straightforward transaction  on your part, it 
became apparent that there were issues regarding the existing lease of the ground floor 
tenant. This appeared to be defective.  It had not been registered  at HM Land Registry and 
apparently had been granted without the consent of your mortgage lender CFM.
Ref: DRN65665854It was eventually agreed between all the parties that it would be necessary to resolve  the 
position by granting  a new lease  to the proposed  assignee. This would require consent of 
your mortgage lenders.
Terms for the new lease  were agreed  . It was necessary for a new lease plan to be drawn 
up which was done. [We] submitted  the draft lease to solicitors  on 23 November. The lease 
of course had to be approved by solicitors  for both the existing tenant and assignee. We 
advised you that it would also be necessary for [sic] a formal deed  of surrender for [sic] the 
original lease. The deed of surrender was also prepared and submitted. 
It appeared that in the meantime the assignee was taking up occupation  of the premises and 
there was some confusion  about contents  and an awning  and keys. On 5 December 2017 
[we] submitted the lease to your mortgage lenders. We submitted further documents to the 
mortgage lenders  on 13 December and on 15 December CFM confirmed that the lease met 
with their initial underwriting  requirements but was subject to solicitors  approval. 
MB raised various enquiries  regarding the lease  which required answering  by the persons 
in occupation.  You will appreciate  that at this stage there were  four solicitors  involved in 
dealing with this transaction  which inevitably lead [sic] to some  delay.
Particularly we note that there was a delay from 30 January to 12 March  from S&Co 
solicitors who failed  to respond  in detail to [us]. As you will appreciate  the consent was 
needed from your mortgage  lender so they and their solicitors had to be satisfied regarding 
the terms of the lease  and also the assignee and his solicitors needed to be satisfied  and of 
course we had to ensure that the wording  was acceptable to you as the freeholder.
Unfortunately there was a long delay on the part of the Land Registry in registration of the 
lease which  was of concern  to you but  the Land Registry are extremely busy  and 
registration of new leases does take time.
Also in this case it appears that the assignee  had entered into occupation  but you were 
nevertheless receiving rent so the tenant  and assignee did not appear to have  any urgency. 
You will recall  that after completion  you discussed the question of delay with [us] and we did 
not accept that there was any delay on our part but nevertheless as a gesture of goodwill 
made a small payment of compensation to you.
.  the main  cause for [sic] the delay  was the failure  to draw up the original lease correctly,  
register the same and obtain  the consent  of your mortgage lender when the original lease 
was first granted.
In the light of this Mr B wrote to the investigator:
CFM are my lender,  and they have  caused  me problems.  I am their customer, and I am 
dissatisfied with their level of service.  I want the fees reduced or waived,  and compensation 
for 12 months waiting  for this to be sorted.  My solicitors  have  acknowledged  my distress by 
offering a goodwill payment, it is only fair that my lender should do the same. CFM must also 
acknowledge that I have also lost the services of a commercial  property  specialist originally 
assigned to manage the tenant and property, it is now left solely  to me to manage the tenant 
and property, which is unfair.
Ref: DRN65665855my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has addressed complaints to CFM, MB, and B&Co. But this approach doesnt achieve  
anything save to the extent that there  is evidence  that one or more of those parties is in 
default. However, having reviewed all the correspondence and emails  supplied to us, its my 
opinion that the most  reliable summary of the events is that contained in the letter  of 
29 January 2019  from B&Co.
Although they purport  to be factual, timelines  can nevertheless be self-serving documents 
and on the evidence I have its quite impossible  for me to say that any one of the solicitors  
involved was the main cause of the delays.
I think the main reasons  for the delays in this application were the defects in the lease which  
Mr B wanted  to assign,  namely the failure  to draw  up the lease correctly,  register it correctly,  
and obtain the consent of CFM to its being granted.  What  should have been a simple  
assignment was turned  into a surrender and the grant of a new lease involving multiple 
parties.
Im not persuaded that the delays were  caused  by any failing on the part of CFM.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6566585