K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the problems he experienced when  he asked U K Insurance  Limited  
(UKI) to do repairs on his boiler  under his home emergency policy.
background
Mr F told us that he reported a leak from his boiler to his insurer, UKI, on 16 December 
2018. An engineer came out the same day, and said a part needed  to be ordered.  That 
could take up to three days. 
Mr F said he checked with UKI the next day, and was told it had received the request for a 
part. On 18 December, he was told no action had been taken to approve the request.  On 
20 December he was again told the request hadnt been approved, and he could call again  
later the next day if he hadnt heard by then. He rang again  on 21 December, and was told 
the engineer would attend on 24 December to fit the part. Hed have  to stay in all day. 
Mr F said that although UKI repeatedly said it would ring him and update him, it never did 
that. He had to contact  it. UKI cancelled his 24 December  appointment halfway  through  that 
day and rebooked for 27 December in the morning. It then got in touch  on 26 December to 
say that it couldnt  send  an engineer on the morning of 27 December after all, and the 
engineer would come out later that day instead.  
Mr F said UKIs response  to his complaint was superficial. It didnt take account  of the 
number of times appointments had been  changed,  or the inconvenience  to him and his 
family. He said UKI hadnt even been  able to confirm this response dealt with this problem.  
Mr F said that the payment of £100 that UKI had offered him was derisory in view of the 
issues hed experienced. 
UKI said that it had written to Mr F and said sorry, and sent him a cheque for £100. It didnt 
think it had to do any more than that.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she could appreciate  that it would 
be stressful  and time consuming to rearrange plans during the Christmas period. So shed 
thought about whether what UKI did was enough  to make up for what had gone wrong. And 
she thought it was. She said that what UKI had done, by offering £100 and apologising, was 
in line with our guidelines.  She said that she didnt think  it needed to do any more.  
Mr F said that our investigator hadnt  mentioned in her view all of the times hed contacted 
UKI. He set that out for us. He said that hed wasted two days  of holiday waiting in for an 
engineer. And he said that the insurer shouldnt  just be telling him to tow the line when 
appointments changed. Mr F was concerned that UKI wasnt  telling  us the full story.
Our investigator said that shed mentioned in her view two occasions  when Mr F checked 
whether replacement parts had been approved,  but she did understand that hed contacted 
UKI more than twice.  Our investigator spoke to Mr F, and he said that hed had to change 
Christmas plans for him and his family  because of the changed appointments. He couldnt  
leave the boiler  leaking  while he was going to be away from home. He also said that UKI 
provides emergency  cover, so claims shouldnt take so long to resolve. 
Ref: DRN63124892Mr F wanted his case to be considered by an ombudsman. So his case was passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr F has a home emergency  policy which he pays for as part of a packaged bank account. 
The policy is underwritten by UKI. 
Mr F complains about what happened  when he tried to arrange  repairs  under the policy. 
Hes told us about how many times  he had to contact UKI, and how long it took to get UKI to 
confirm it was doing the repairs  and book an appointment. And hes told us that the 
appointment was then rearranged twice.  Hes also told us about the impact this had on him 
and his family, during the Christmas period. 
I do think that its unfortunate  that UKI didnt do a better job of keeping in touch with Mr F 
about the progress of his claim.  It doesnt seem as if it was an urgent job, Mr Fs boiler  
doesnt appear to have  stopped working during this time, but it was still something that 
needed repaired, and Mr F would certainly have been concerned to make sure the boiler 
was no longer leaking if he was intending  to go away from home. But I think its only fair to 
balance that out against the problems that insurers face in trying to organise work at this 
time of year,  and the other demands  on the engineers at this time.
Overall, I do accept that UKIs service fell short. But I dont think that it fell so far short, that 
UKI needs to pay more  in compensation than the £100 it says it has sent him. 
I know that Mr F will be disappointed by this, but I dont  think it would be consistent with our 
services overall approach  to awards,  and in particular with awards Ive made in other cases, 
to increase the amount  of compensation in this case. So, although  I know  that Mr F will be 
disappointed, I dont  think that his complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312489