K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Sainsburys  Bank Plc treated them  unfairly when the bank failed  
to tell them that loan repayments were not being  made. They say they accrued significant 
arrears before the bank contacted them and then it demanded the arears be cleared in a 
very short time.
background
Mr and Mrs R say they applied for a loan of £35,000 in April 2017 with Sainsburys.  Although  
they initially made the payments themselves, Mr R told us that following a number  of 
problems he arranged for the payments  to be made  by direct debit from his business  bank 
account. Mr R told us:
A new direct debit was set in July so that the loan repayments would be taken from 
his business bank account. And he says although the business was making  the loan 
payments, the bank  recognised he was still the banks customer, so correspondence 
relating to the loan should continue to be sent to him, not his business.
In December 2018 he received a letter notifying  him that the account had accrued 
arrears of around £3,600 and he needed  to clear these within two weeks. The letter 
also told him his credit  file had been  updated to reflect the arrears.
He complained to the bank and it acknowledged the letter  was poorly worded; the 
credit reference agencies hadnt  been  told about  the arrears.
The bank  failed  to correctly set up the direct debit mandate and it didnt tell him each 
time it failed to collect the monthly  loan payment. He says the bank should notify him 
as soon as theres any problem with the direct  debit so that it can be resolved and no 
further strain is placed on his family.
Sainsburys rejected  this complaint. It confirmed it had reviewed the direct debit mandate 
Mr R had submitted in July 2018  and it had been  set up in accordance  with his instructions. 
And it said it had sent letters to Mr and Mrs R; arrears letters relating to missed  payments.
It acknowledged it hadnt returned a call to Mr R when he first contacted  the bank about the 
arrears. And when hed called again, he had to wait 40 mins to speak with a bank 
representative before the bank accidentally disconnected the call. So it offered him £75 
vouchers in recognition of the poor service  hed received. It later increased  this to £125.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that although Mr R said hed received no notification of the arrears,  this Service 
had been given information  from Sainsburys systems that showed  that letters had been 
sent. And hed also seen  evidence that the bank tried to contact Mr and Mrs R when it got no 
response to the arrears  letters, but the system  notes  indicate that the bank representative 
was unable to reach  anyone. He also explained that the evidence shows  the direct  debit had 
been set up and was active so he didnt  think that any problems with collecting loan 
payments was the banks fault. And because of this he wouldnt ask Sainsburys to 
compensate Mr and Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr R says he has no 
evidence to confirm  the bank called  him; no voicemails or missed  calls and he doesnt 
believe their policy allows them to make  outbound  telephone calls.
Ref: DRN61357272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I hope that Mr and Mrs R wont  take it as 
a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. Our rules allow  me to do that.
Mr and Mrs R should note, however, that although I may not address each individual point 
that theyve raised,  I have  given careful consideration to all of their submissions before 
arriving at my decision. Having done so I have to tell Mr and Mrs R that I think  the 
investigator has reached the right outcome here.  And I think  he set out the position  very 
clearly so theres very little I can usefully add to what hes already said.
Ive had the benefit of a lot of information from Sainsburys internal systems; contact records; 
transaction listings; systems notes; collections notes; screenshots  of direct debit details and 
sample letters that the bank says are representative of those it sends for accounts  in arrears.
Im satisfied the banks  systems display an active direct debit mandate  so, like our 
investigator, I dont  think the fault for not collecting  the loan payments lies with Sainsburys.  
So I cant hold it responsible for the arrears accruing.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt receive any of the arrears letters  that the bank says it sent. Ive 
noted that the address  Mr and Mrs R gave this Service  is the same  as the one held on the 
banks systems, and its contact records show it wrote to Mr and Mrs R at this address when 
it says it did. And I havent been told about any reason  why Mr and Mrs R might not have 
received these letters (like problems with their post). So Im satisfied its more likely that they 
were sent and delivered correctly.
Ive also seen internal  bank  records that show the bank tried to contact Mr R in August 2018, 
but that attempt failed  because there  was no answer. I know that Mr R says he received no 
call, but I dont think its likely that the bank would record  in August last year that it tried to 
contact Mr R if it hadnt. I think its more likely  that the bank attempted  to contact Mr R, but 
for unknown  reasons, Mr R wasnt in a position to take the call.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not upholding this complaint; Im satisfied the direct 
debit was set up and that the bank made contact when the monthly  loan payments were  
missed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6135727