K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss C say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, is responsible  for this complaint, so Ill refer mainly to 
Halifax.
background and summary to complaint
Mr P and Miss C bought  the policy in 2005 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch of the bank and the PPI was part of a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP was a product that typically included  PPI, 
critical illness cover and life insurance.  Consumers  who wanted to buy these types of 
protection could  take some elements of insurance and not others,  to suit their individual  
circumstances.
We now know that the PPI element provided cover only for Mr P. Miss C wasnt named on it, 
although they both did take out the critical illness and life insurance elements. Subject to its 
exclusions and limitations, the PPI offered  to repay  £622 a month towards their mortgage 
balance in the event of Mr P making  successful  claim. At the time, the PPI element cost £36 
a month. 
Mr P was employed in engineering and weve been  told he was entitled to 6 months full sick 
pay. Ive not been provided  with any evidence of Mr Ps sickness protection  from his work, 
nor the death  in service entitlements the company  representing him says he enjoyed.  
Nevertheless, Ive accepted that Mr P would  have probably had some sickness protection 
and other  work-related benefits.  I explain a little more about this later.
As regards  his health, we were told Mr P suffered  from high blood pressure for a while in the 
1990s and back  pain in or around  2003.  Ive thought very carefully  about  whether these 
things change anything.  
I understand the PPI was cancelled in around  2018.  Mr P and Miss Cs representative has 
made lengthy and substantial  representations  on their behalf.  I will not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr P and Miss Cs 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P and Miss C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Their 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely they could  make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr P and Miss C about  the poor value; 
Ref: DRN64221712The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and Miss 
C and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr P and Miss C received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P and Miss C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr P and Miss Cs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr P and Miss Cs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN64221713Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr P and Miss Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN64221714-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr P and Miss C with reasonable  care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr P and Miss C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P 
and Miss C, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mr P and Miss 
C suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and Miss 
C and Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr P and Miss Cs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr P and Miss C know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional  and overall, I think  it did. 
I say this because  although this was all a long time ago, Ive been able to look at the original 
paperwork and electronic notes from the sale. I think its reasonable to say that Mr P and 
Miss C engaged in a discussion with a mortgage adviser.  This is my general  experience  of 
these types of sale and I note they themselves confirm this is their recollection of what 
happened here. I also think theres  comprehensive  evidence showing they discussed their 
financial affairs and their insurance requirements  with the adviser. So whilst I accept Mr P 
and Miss C are being honest and genuine when they say the PPI wasnt explained to them, 
the circumstances from the time strongly  imply the opposite: they determined  they wanted  
various forms of insurance  for both of them   and the PPI element only in respect  of Mr P.
I also see they were given a schedule explaining  what elements of insurance they had 
agreed to buy and which they hadnt.  I think this was laid out in a simple and straightforward 
way which  both showed that the PPI was optional and that it could be tailored to their 
situation. Their  Mortgage Offer  a document  I feel theyd  have wanted to read carefully  
listed insurance you have chosen to take out through Halifax and underneath this 
heading it clearly  set out the various  different products and their respective costs.
In short,  Im afraid think theres  strong  and reliable evidence  that Mr P and Miss C asked for 
the PPI to be set up in Mr Ps name. They  could  see the policy was optional  and what  it was 
going to cost. In my view, its much more  likely  and they agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure although  I completely accept  they may not remember this now.  
did Halifax provide advice?
This was an advised  sale which means Halifax had to advise Mr P and Miss C with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN64221715Halifax most likely  took some steps  to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr P and Miss C. The adviser had information about Mr P and Miss Cs 
financial circumstances, and I think theres some evidence to show  they also took steps  to 
establish whether  Mr P would have been caught  by some of the significant  exclusions and 
limitations. However, I cant say enough was done  to establish all the limitations and 
exclusions were discussed  thoroughly,  which  might  have meant the policy did not fully meet  
his and Miss Cs needs. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax advised with enough  
reasonable care and skill. But while Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mr P and Miss C, I do think its more  likely than not 
that the policy was ultimately suitable  for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into 
consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P and Miss C had a need for the policy  Mr P was the higher earner and 
although he would have received some sick pay if he was unable to work due to 
illness, this was a mortgage secured on their home.  The consequences of them  not 
being able to keep up the repayments could have  been serious, and theres  no 
evidence they had enough other means they could fall back  on. The policy would  
have helped Mr P and Miss C manage the consequences if he was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr P and Miss C.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P and Miss C. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ps employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr P and Miss Cs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr P and Miss C 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P and Miss C were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr P was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr P and Miss C would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and it was shown on several  
documents.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr P and Miss C agreed to take out the 
policy. Overall,  having  considered the parties representations about  what happened,  while  
Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P and Miss C Im not 
persuaded Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  
Ref: DRN64221716in a way that was fair and reasonable  to them. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr P and 
Miss C all of the information  they needed about the policy  to make an informed  decision  
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr P and Miss Cs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr P and 
Miss Cs. Ive considered  these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr P and Miss Cs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P and Miss C about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr P and Miss Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr P and Miss C have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Halifax ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr P and Miss C? To what extent did 
Mr P and Miss C suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  may not have  done all it should have done  when  it sold this policy to 
Mr P and Miss C. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr P and Miss C suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr P and Miss C would  have still taken  out the policy,  had Halifax 
done things properly. 
While Im not fully persuaded Halifax took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr P and Miss C, I have found that the policy  
was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P and Miss C have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
more, Mr P and Miss C would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr P and Miss C say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. Deciding whether to follow advice to 
Ref: DRN64221717take out insurance requires the consumer  to weigh up a number of factors before deciding  
whether to proceed. Effectively  the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take out the 
policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have  insurance, should  the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case very strongly in my view suggests that Mr P and Miss C had some 
interest in taking out payment protection  insurance.  By this I mean when Halifax  advised 
them that there was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage 
payments in the event Mr P was unable to work because  of accident, sickness and 
unemployment, they concluded  they wanted  that product. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr P and Miss Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. But the information about  some  aspects  of the policy,  such as the 
limitations and exclusions  may not have been  as clear as it should have been.  Possibly the 
most significant differences between what Mr P and Miss C thought they had bought  and 
what they actually  bought  were the following:
The policy excluded  certain claims relating to medical conditions that Mr P knew  
about or ought to have  known about 12 months  before  the start date of the policy 
(However, a claim may have been accepted  if symptom free and for 24 months);
The policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back  and mental health 
conditions placing  more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if the 
policyholder wasnt  a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  the policyholder be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training  reasonably  qualified them to do
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr P and Miss C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P and Miss C from taking  out 
the policy. 
However, the evidence  about Mr P and Miss Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Mr P was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. 
The information sent to me about  his previous  medical conditions was limited,  and whilst I 
accept they may have  been of concern at the time(s) of their diagnoses, theres  no evidence 
they would  have caused Mr P to think  in 2005   that claiming  on the policy  for them would 
be likely.  I think  its unlikely he would have thought extended time-off work for these   as per 
the policy rules - was a realistic possibility and I think both conditions may well have been  
claimable for anyway, depending on circumstances.  I also havent seen any evidence to 
Ref: DRN64221718suggest Mr P would have  been caught  by any of the other significant exclusions.  So, I still 
think he and Miss C had some good reasons  to take the policy out.
Ive given thought to death in service  benefit.  Again, I was sent no evidence  of this but in 
any event, this covers a different eventuality to the main features of PPI (which concern  
unemployment and inability to work because of illness).
I also accept back pain and mental  health  conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr P 
from taking out the policy,  Mr P, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
Overall, I consider it likely  Mr P and Miss C would still have thought  a policy  that paid up to 
12 monthly mortgage payments would have been  of benefit to and would help them manage 
the consequences should Mr P be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P and Miss C would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr P was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P and Miss C would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr P and Miss Cs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P and Miss C would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr P and Miss 
Cs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr P 
and Miss C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN64221719Mr P and Miss C believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P and Miss C in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr P and Miss C compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr P and Miss C think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr P and Miss C, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr P and Miss Cs representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr P and Miss C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr P and Miss C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6422171