K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services Limited.
background
In May 2016  Mr A entered into a lease agreement  with MBFS. The agreement  was for a 
term of 2 years.
Mr A experienced a number of issues with the car. The car was returned  to the retailer on 
several occasions and repairs  were  carried  out.
Mr A is unhappy about the number of times the car needed repairs.  Hes also unhappy with 
the quality of courtesy cars which were  provided to him whilst his car was in for repairs.  He 
wants compensation for the inconvenience  he has suffered and for the loss of use and 
enjoyment of his own car whilst it was being  repaired.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that because  the lease agreement  was 
taken out in Mr As name, Mr A was the eligible complainant, even though it was Mr As 
brother who had possession of the car. The investigator said that he could  only consider the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr A, not to Mr As brother. The investigator said that Mr A 
didnt suffer and trouble and upset  whilst  the car was being repaired because Mr A wasnt 
the day to day driver of the car.
Mr A didnt agree. He said it was irrelevant that he hadnt suffered  any trouble and upset 
because the person making the payments  under  the agreement was his brother. Mr A was 
unhappy that the courtesy cars provide were not like for like.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service operates under a set of rules known as the DISP  rules. DISP  2.7 says that we 
can only consider  a complaint from an eligible complainant. An eligible complainant is a 
customer (or potential customer) of the business  complained about.
This complaint relates to a car supplied to Mr A under a lease agreement.  Mr A has 
explained that the car was too big for him so he gave the car to his brother and his brother 
made the contractual payments, with the lease agreement remaining in Mr As name.
Theres no dispute that the car was returned  to the dealership for repairs  on several  
occasions. And on most occasions the car took a few days  to be repaired. During this time, 
Mr As brother  was provided  with a courtesy car by the repairing garage.
I dont doubt that it was inconvenient for Mr As brother to have to repeatedly  return  the car 
to the garage  for repairs. And I appreciate  that Mr As brother would have liked a courtesy 
car which was similar  in size and specification, because that is what he was used to driving.
In relation to the courtesy car, theres nothing in the lease  agreement which  obliges  MBFS to 
provide a courtesy car. The courtesy  car was provided at the discretion  of the repairing 
Ref: DRN68473662garage. Theres no obligation  on the garage to provide a like for like courtesy car  or any 
courtesy car at all.
I appreciate that Mr As brother was without the car for approximately  35 days in total during 
the two year term. I understand that this would have caused a degree of inconvenience  to Mr 
As brother.  But, because of the eligible complainant  rule which Ive explained above, Im 
only able to consider  the trouble and upset caused  to Mr A. And in this case, I cant  see that 
Mr A was caused any trouble and upset because  he wasnt  the person in possession  of the 
car and therefore  wasnt the person who suffered  inconvenience  when  the car wasnt  
available to drive.
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont be asking MBFS to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6847366