K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax will not remove  his name from a 
joint mortgage.
background
Mr F reached a court settlement with the other  party to the mortgage in which  she received 
ownership of the property.  He wants the responsibility for the mortgage to pass to her too. 
Payments on the mortgage have not been  fully maintained and this has affected his credit 
record.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-The court settlement  did not affect the mortgage and Mr F remained  jointly  and 
severally responsible  for it.
-A party wishing  to take over a mortgage  would need to make  a new application.
-Mr F had given  his authority for this to happen:  but that wasnt  enough to make  the 
change.
-Halifax had changed the mortgage interest product which had reduced  the monthly 
payments. It had asked Mr F if he wanted to reverse this.
Mr F did not agree. Halifax  had said that the only thing  stopping the transfer  was a letter 
from him to say he could  be removed  from the mortgage. He rejected the findings in totality  
and wanted to know how to proceed. Halifax had said it could not alter the mortgage without 
his approval: but it had by changing  the interest rate product.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a letter dated 17 July 2017  from Halifax about the mortgage which Mr F has 
provided to this service.  This did state  he would need to give authority before any change to 
the mortgage could be made. And hes shown  he wrote to Halifax on 26 October 2017 to do 
so. But thats a precondition to a transfer  being  made: its not enough in itself.  The other 
party would still need to make a full mortgage  application and this would have to be agreed 
by Halifax.
Mr F is right that, strictly speaking, changes to the mortgage product  would  need  his consent 
too. Halifax says it tried to contact  him about  this but did not get a response.  The new 
product reduced  the amount of the payments  due which,  as Mr F says,  were not all being 
made. In its final response to him Halifax said it thought that this change  was in the best 
interests of the person paying the mortgage. But that it had asked Mr F if he wanted it to look 
into the change  and hed said he didnt.
Im afraid that the issue here with the mortgage  is a civil matter between  the joint borrowers 
which I cant make any other comment about.  And Halifax is not responsible for the impact 
on Mr Fs credit record of the other party not making  the payments. He has an equal 
responsibility to Halifax  for all the commitments  under the mortgage  agreement.  This 
complaint is about  Halifax  and I dont have a basis to say it should do anything further.
Ref: DRN61286912my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6128691