K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy British Gas Services Limited  (British Gas) incorrectly  sent him an invoice for 
£50 and told him the matter would be passed  to debt collectors. 
background
Mr S was incorrectly  sent an invoice for £50 on 18 November 2018 following an annual 
service under his HomeCare agreement.  A payment reminder  was sent on 1 December so 
Mr S called British Gas on 6 December  to query  this. During  this call Mr S was told by British 
Gas that he had a call out charge  on his account. But it said that this particular visit 
shouldve been  marked as a recall, meaning  the invoice shouldnt  have  been  sent.  So 
British Gas confirmed  the invoice  would  be cancelled and it told Mr S that he didnt  owe 
anything. 
Mr S asked British Gas if it could confirm  this in writing. Mr S was is then placed on hold 
while a letter was generated and was then told he can expect to receive  the  letter within  the 
next 7 working  days.
On 15 December 2018, British Gas sent Mr S a letter saying his details would be passed to 
a debt collection agency because he owed £50 for work carried  out. In response Mr S 
emailed British Gas explaining hed called  previously and was told it would be reversed.
On 24 December 2018 British Gas called  Mr S and confirmed the letter had been  sent out in 
error and that there was nothing outstanding. Again Mr S asked if he would receive  anything  
in writing. British Gas said he wouldnt receive a letter explaining what  had happened  but he 
would receive a letter saying that it was sorry hed had to complain and that the matter had 
now been resolved.  
Mr S then sent further correspondence to British  Gas explaining  his view that the matter  was 
unresolved. He said he hadnt  received a letter  of explanation or an apology. 
In February 2019  Mr S referred his complaint  to our service for an independent review. In 
March British Gas offered  to send a gesture of £80 to cover  the worry caused to Mr S and to 
recognise that it didnt  provide a full response. But Mr S remained  unhappy  with this. He said 
£300 better reflected the inconvenience caused.  
One of our investigators  considered the offer of £80 put forward  by British  Gas but didnt 
think it was a fair resolution  to the complaint. The investigator felt the award  should  be 
increased to £150.  British  Gas disagreed and said its gesture of £80 takes into account the 
level of upset the matter  caused together with the level of service provided. 
British Gas explained that the matter was resolved  following the conversation  of 
24 December and that whilst Mr S was unhappy at not receiving a more  detailed 
explanation, it was made clear to Mr S that hed receive a summary  resolution letter.  
The complaint has been passed  to me to reach  a final decision on this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
the investigator reached, and for mostly the same  reasons. 
Ref: DRN65010352When considering  awards  for trouble and upset, I must consider the impact the issue has 
had on the customer. In this case,  taking  into account the level of customer  service that Mr S 
has received as a whole,  I think compensation of £150 fairly  reflects the trouble and upset 
caused. Ill explain why. 
The reason  the invoice  was issued, albeit incorrectly, was because  it had been necessary for 
an engineer to revisit Mr Ss home, when hed been left without  heating  after the annual  
service on his boiler. British Gas incorrectly reported  this as a call out, as opposed to a 
recall. So this meant an invoice was generated. 
When Mr S first called British Gas to query  the invoice and to explain what had happened,  
he also mentioned  that the engineer had been late on the day of the service,  and that hes in 
his 80s and had just come out of hospital  when the problem happened. 
The British  Gas call handler  explained  that the invoice was issued in error  and Mr S 
requested confirmation  of this in writing. However, although it appears the call handler 
drafted a letter, its not clear if this was actually  sent.  In any event Mr S received another 
letter just over week a later saying that the matter  was going to be passed to a debt 
collector.  
Mr S emailed British Gas to complain. A week after receiving Mr Ss email British Gas called 
him to apologise and it explained the letter has been sent in error. Again Mr S asked for 
confirmation in writing and the call handler informed Mr S that he would be receiving a 
summary resolution letter. 
However, this was the second time Mr S had requested confirmation in writing. So I think  
British Gas couldve provided a full written  response  explaining that the invoice  wasnt 
payable, particularly considering Mr S had explained  that the matter had upset him 
considerably and that hed woken early in mornings thinking about what  to do. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the award  suggested by the investigator better  
reflects the trouble and upset caused  on this occasion. So I direct British  Gas to pay Mr S a 
total of £150 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Services  
Limited to pay Mr S a total of £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501035