K820x#14complaint
Mr I and Mrs O complain that Zurich Insurance PLC turned down their cancellation claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
My references to Zurich  include its agents. 
background
On 27 January 2018 Mr I and Mrs O booked  a weeks holiday for themselves and their 
children. They were due to travel on 11 February  2018. Through the travel agent, they 
arranged the single  trip travel insurance with Zurich at the time of booking  the holiday.  On 
29 January 2018  Mr Is mother, Mrs I, was taken into hospital, and she sadly  she passed  
away a few days later. Mr I and Mrs O cancelled their holiday and made a claim to Zurich.
Zurich turned down  the cancellation claim. In brief summary, it said the claim wasnt  covered 
for two main reasons: Mrs I had received a cancer  diagnosis the previous year,  which had 
been treated and investigated. Her sad death was due to the cancer. The policy  terms said, 
in summary, that it wouldnt  pay a claim caused  by a medical condition that had been treated 
and investigated  within the previous six months.  The policy terms also excluded  a claim 
which could reasonably have been anticipated, which  Zurich  said was the case here. 
Mr I and Mrs O didnt agree. They thought  Mrs Is medical condition was stable following a 
medical investigation in January 2018. Theyd booked the holiday only after that, and 
couldnt have  known that shed rapidly  deteriorate. They asked  us to look into the complaint.
Our adjudicator thought Zurich had fairly  rejected the claim so she didnt  uphold  the 
complaint. Mr I and Mrs O didnt agree and referred to cases that wed upheld in similar  
circumstances. Mr I asked to speak to me before  I reached my decision so he could explain 
the timeline leading up to the claim. I spoke with him. He set out his complaint again and told 
me why he genuinely didnt  realise  that he and his family would need to cancel their holiday. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the other decisions to which Mr I has referred. As I explained when we spoke 
I must look at each individual case before me on its own facts  and merits. This means  I am 
not bound by any previous decisions issued by our ombudsmen, as those  decisions dont 
set a precedent.
Ive carefully thought  about all the issues in this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. 
I will need to refer to some medical information  to explain my reasons for my decision. Im 
sorry for any distress this causes Mr I and Mrs O. 
Zurich has relied on two main policy conditions, which  say that it will not cover cancellation 
claims arising directly or indirectly from (at the time of taking out the policy):
any medical condition  where the insured persons close  relative has, within the last 
six months, been seen by a specialist (other than for regular check  ups), had an 
operation or other hospital treatment  or investigation. 
Ref: DRN63982692Any circumstances the insured  person is aware of that could reasonably be expected 
to give rise to a claim on the policy (this is also a policy  exclusion). 
Zurich has referred to the following medical  evidence in support of its position and it 
arranged for its own medical officer to review that information. Zurich says in summary that:
In late 2016  Mrs I was diagnosed  with gastric carcinoma (cancer  in the stomach  
lining). At the time of diagnosis the cancer had already spread within the area 
connecting the stomach to other  abdominal organs (peritoneum and omentum). 
In February 2017 Mrs I had a gastrectomy (a surgical procedure to remove  part or all 
of the stomach),  and due to positive margins where cancer cells were still present 
she had chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 
In October 2017 a CT scan showed  no new evidence of metastatic disease. But the 
medical letter about the scan  talks about  positive  margins  and the presence  of 
metastasis. 
In the letter of 22 January 2018 the diagnosis is repeated. A comparison was made 
with the previous scan and the more  recent  scan. There was the development of a 
large bilateral pleural effusion  (fluid around  both the lungs) with a new small nodule in 
the right lower lobe,  which was non specific  in nature. The peritoneal and metastatic  
stranding which had been highlighted in the October  2017 letter  was noted; but no 
metabolically active lesions were noted.  Its own doctor concluded the diagnosis was 
present and noted before  the travel insurance  policy was taken out. 
On 29 January 2018 Mrs I was admitted  to hospital, and she sadly passed away  in 
hospital around a week  later from metastatic  gastric carcinoma.
In summary,  Zurich says the claim is excluded under  the policy because Mrs I had been 
seen by a specialist and had hospital  treatment or investigation in the 6 months before the 
policy was taken out. Also Zurich  observes  the cancer had already spread at the time of 
diagnosis, with this information being  on all the hospital letters.  It didnt consider the October  
2017 scan gave  the all clear as Mr I and Mrs O had suggested. Although  new metastatic  
disease wasnt seen  at that point  the cancer had, sadly, already  spread. Mrs I also had fluid 
on her lungs. That information together with the cancer with metastasis means that in 
Zurichs view the claim could reasonably have been  anticipated. 
Mr I says in summary that:
He and the family believed the October 2017  was an all clear as no new metastatic  
disease was picked up. The outlook was as good as could possibly be hoped at that 
stage as indicated  in the consultants  letter. The consultant agreed that Mrs I could 
go ahead  with a hip replacement operation, which she had in November 2017.  
The January  2018 scan also showed no new metastatic disease. Mrs I had been 
feeling relatively well. They  genuinely  believed both in October 2017 and January 
2018 that she was in remission. 
Mrs I and the family had been  reassured by her doctors that the fluid on the lungs 
hadnt been linked to the cancer and wasnt anything to worry about.  She had fluid 
drained in clinic in the respiratory  clinic  (23 January 2018) and she was to go back  in 
one to two weeks  time to have  the remainder  of the fluid drained. There was a query 
about whether  the cause of the fluid might be heart related, and she was to have 
further tests about that in due course. 
Mrs Is GP confirmed  that based  on the information available to Mr I and Mrs O, 
Mrs Is condition was controlled  at the time they booked the holiday and took out the 
insurance (January  2018).  Theyd not been asked any medical questions about  
themselves or relatives when they took out the insurance through the travel  agent.
Ref: DRN63982693Mrs I had felt unwell and dizzy and was taken  into hospital on 29 January 2018. They 
genuinely didnt  anticipate Mrs Is rapid  deterioration, and wouldnt have booked their 
holiday had they been concerned  having already waited  until after the January 
2018 follow up scan. They think Zurich failed to treat them fairly in line with its 
regulators principles. 
I think Zurich was correct to say the claim was excluded under the strict  policy terms. Mrs I 
had seen specialist  and shed had hospital  treatment  or investigation  in the six months  
before Mr I and Mrs O took out the travel  insurance policy  for their holiday. Mrs I sadly 
passed away due to metastatic  gastric carcinoma, which  was the illness  Mr I and Mrs O 
were aware of before they took out the insurance.  Zurich (via the travel agent) didnt ask 
questions about  their health  or Mr I and Mrs Os health conditions before they took out the 
policy. But it is still entitled to have an exclusion in its policy  about the health of close 
relatives. I think the exclusion was reasonably clear and prominent in the policy  terms and 
conditions.
I can step outside the strict policy terms where  I consider it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to do so. In assessing this I need  to think about  whether a claim could 
reasonably have been anticipated. I understand this is one of the exclusions Zurich has 
relied on. But in any event  I look closely at this issue when deciding a fair outcome. 
I appreciate and I entirely accept that Mr I and Mrs O genuinely didnt realise  that Mrs Is 
condition might deteriorate so suddenly. If theyd known that I can see theyd not have 
booked their family holiday. They  had waited until the outcome of her January 2018 scan 
before making  the booking and taking  out the insurance. 
But I need to consider  whether an insured person could reasonably anticipate that they 
might have to make  a claim under  the insurance  policy. Mrs I sadly  had metastatic cancer.  
I appreciate Mr I and Mrs O believed she was in remission. Ive thought about their 
knowledge of the condition and that shed had the all clear  in October 2017. Shed been 
able to have a hip replacement operation in November 2017  and theyd been  told she was 
doing as well as could be expected. Her GP said her condition  was controlled.
But I cant disregard the fact that shortly  before  their holiday  Mrs I had been seen in a 
respiratory clinic with fluid around both her lungs. It wasnt  possible to drain all that fluid and 
the cause hadnt been fully investigated  at that point. Mr I and Mrs O explain that the medical 
advice they received was that this was probably not connected to the cancer and was 
nothing to worry about. But they had been  told it might be heart related.  
Having reviewed all the evidence I think Mrs Is medical conditions of metastatic  cancer and 
fluid on her lungs means that Mr I and Mrs O could  reasonably have anticipated that they 
might have to make  a claim under  the policy. I think it was always  possible that her health 
would deteriorate. Ive thought about the treating customers fairly principles of Zurichs 
regulators in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so, 
and for the reasons Ive explained in my findings  I think Zurich reached  a fair decision when 
it declined the cancellation claim. 
Ref: DRN63982694my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr I and Mrs O, for the reasons Ive given I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6398269