K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms M says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms M took out the PPI when she applied for her credit card by post.  She says it wasnt  
made clear to her that the policy was optional. But her credit  card application form had a 
separate payment protection section  for the PPI. And this had a place for Ms M to sign 
for the PPI separately from signing for the card. Bearing this in mind, I think the form did 
present the PPI as something separate  from the card itself.  I also think  the form made it 
clear that PPI wouldnt be added unless it was signed for separately. In view of all this, 
taking everything into account I think Bank of Scotland did make  it clear that Ms M didnt 
have to take the PPI if she didnt want to take it. And Ms M did sign for the PPI on her 
application form. So I think she chose  to take the cover.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didnt have to check the PPI 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information  she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Ms M wasnt  affected 
by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on the cover - so it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. The policy covered sickness and unemployment. For a 
successful claim  the benefit would pay out on top of Ms Ms work benefits  and for longer 
than her full work sick pay would  last. It also looks like the cover  was affordable. Taking  
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
Ms M off taking  it.
Ive thought about all Ms Ms points but, for the reasons Ive already given above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
What Ive said above means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank  of Scotland  doesnt  
need to refund everything Ms M paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give 
Ms M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Ms M. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN63372362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6337236