K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains she was given unsuitable advice by an adviser with Connacht  Financial  
Services Ltd, an appointed representative  (AR) of TenetConnect Services Limited 
(Tenet). She says she was advised  to invest all of her savings in a high risk investment  
which wasnt suitable for her.
She feels that as Connacht Financial Services was an AR of Tenet,  Tenet is responsible for 
her losses.  She wants to be put back in the position  she was in before she was advised by 
the AR.
background
Mrs A had a general investment portfolio, an ISA and a pension portfolio and told us she and 
her husband, (who Ill call Mr A) had been advised  by the AR for around 15 years. She 
says that in December 2011  her husband was contacted by the AR about investing  in Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum Ltd (GKP). In January  and February 2012, Mrs A invested all of her 
available funds in the shares. 
When the shares were  sold in July 2016, Mrs A had lost the majority of her money, which 
has had a huge impact  on her. She says shes since found out that the shares werent  on 
Tenets approved  panel of products so the AR was working outside  of its authority.
Tenet said the orders were all carried out on an execution  only basis  the AR didnt advise 
Mrs A to invest  in GKP, it simply acted  on her instructions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that, 
for every instruction, Mrs A had signed  a letter to confirm that she was acting without advice.  
He concluded  that, because the trades were carried out on an execution  only basis,  Tenet  
wasnt responsible  for Mrs As losses.
Mrs A didnt agree. She replied in detail saying, in summary, that:
Mr A visited the ARs  office with his friend and the AR recommended they all invest  in 
GKP.
The meeting notes provided  by Tenet  are not an accurate reflection of what  happened 
and look to have been  added to the business file to support  its defence of this complaint.
The execution only instructions that she was asked to sign werent  discussed.  Even  if 
the trades were execution only, the AR and Tenet didnt have the required Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) permissions to carry out the trades.
She wasnt made aware that the AR didnt have  the required permission to carry out the 
trades and that, as a result, any losses wouldnt be covered by professional  indemnity 
insurance. She wouldnt have agreed  to the share  purchases if shed been made aware 
of this.
The AR sold Mrs As existing investments during the period  November  2011  to January 
2012. No discussion  took place prior to these  sales  and Mrs A didnt agree to them.
As a result of the ARs  actions,  she has lost her entire pension provision.
Ref: DRN64276592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
In response to our investigator,  Mrs A suggested  that some of the records  provided by the 
business were created  as a result of her complaint  namely the records  of meetings and the 
email instruction to switch  her portfolio to 100% cash  dated 15 September 2011. I havent 
seen enough evidence to support her allegation  of fraud and, as an informal dispute 
resolution service, this isnt the appropriate service  to decide this point. If Mrs A believes 
Tenet, or the AR, acted dishonestly and wants to pursue that issue,  shell need to do so 
through the appropriate authorities.
This service isnt a regulator and it isnt my role to make a finding on whether there has been 
a breach of the regulations. Thats the role of the FCA.
In September  2011, the AR recommended that Mrs A either switched to a lower  risk profile,  
or into 100% cash as a temporary  measure. This was against a background of a possible 
default by Greece.  This recommendation was set out in an email dated 13 September  2011  
addressed to Mr A and he replied two days later instructing the switch to 100% cash in 
Mrs As portfolio. Overall,  I think Mrs A gave permission  via Mr A - to liquidate her 
investments. And I havent seen anything to suggest that this was in preparation for investing 
in GKP  the first mention  of this investment was around three months later.
At the end of January  2012, the first investment in GKP took place.  Three further purchases 
were made in February 2012  and all of the shares were  sold in July 2016.
Mrs A says the AR recommended she invest in the shares. If it did give a personal 
recommendation, it wouldve been  obliged  to make sure the shares were  suitable for Mrs A.
I think its likely that the AR spoke  about  GKP and told Mr A and his friend that he was 
planning to make a personal investment. I dont think  such  a discussion is unsurprising or 
unreasonable given Mr A, his friend,  and the AR had formed a close relationship, having 
known each other for many years. But I havent  seen anything  to persuade me that any 
discussion about GKP  amounted to a personal recommendation for Mr and Mrs A to invest  
in the shares.  Mrs A never  attending the meetings and theres no evidence she spoke to the 
AR before she gave  instructions  to invest in GKP.
The AR prepared  a letter of instruction for Mrs A to sign for every instruction she gave. This 
including the wording:
I confirm  that my decision to purchase  these  shares bas been  made  without advice or 
recommendation from CFS Independent Financial Advisers or its employees and that it has 
been explained to me that this investment  falls outside my assessed attitude  to risk.
Ref: DRN64276593Mrs A confirms she signed each of these letters and I think it was reasonably clear that she 
wouldve understood the AR hadnt advised  her to buy the shares. And that she understood 
the risk involved was higher than her previously  agreed attitude  to risk, but that she wanted 
to go ahead anyway.
After each transaction, the AR wrote to Mrs A to confirm the transaction.  This letter repeated  
that the ARs  role was to facilitate the transaction and that it hadnt  given advice.  It also said 
that the investment was regarded as very high risk.  Mrs A signed this letter  for every  
transaction.
I accept these letters  and the wording  used  were provided by the AR. But I find it was 
clear from these letters that Mrs A was giving instructions on an execution only basis.
Im sorry  this investment  resulted in a loss for Mrs A. But as I dont find the AR gave her 
advice, I dont find Tenet is responsible for her loss.
Its disappointing that Tenet wasnt able to provide a copy  of the AR agreement.  But Ive 
made my decision based on the evidence and information we have been given. And the lack 
of an AR agreement doesnt  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6427659