K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with charges applied when  he received a payment of euros  into his 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) account.  
background
Mr R says he was told there would be no charges for receiving the funds and if he had been 
made aware  of charges  he would have  opened an account elsewhere before transferring the 
money. Mr R was disappointed to discover the exchange rate applied  and feels that it is so 
low that it amounts to a charge. He would like the difference between  the rate he was 
expecting and the rate applied (approximately  £460)  to be refunded.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He listened to the call from 
22 August 2018  between  Mr R and the bank. In the call Mr R asks if there  are any charges 
for receiving euros into his account and the bank employee confirms there are not. Mr R 
referred to the £460 as a charge, however, this figure represents the difference between  the 
exchange rate he received and the rate he had seen elsewhere.  So the investigator thinks 
the bank employee  was correct in saying that Mr R would not incur a charge for receiving the 
money. During the call the bank employee also confirms that the €30,000  should  be sent by 
direct transfer and it will be converted once received. The bank employee also explained that 
the euros will be converted to sterling  at whatever the rate is when the funds are received. 
Mr R was not promised  a certain  rate. So the investigator didnt think  the bank acted unfairly  
by applying the exchange rate it did. The investigator thought the rates  that Mr R had seen 
during the day were  most  likely interbank rates  and not necessarily the rate applicable  for 
retail transactions such as had occurred. So he didnt think HSBC made any errors during 
this process.
Mr R has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He wants to know  if the £460 is not a charge, 
what is it? He thinks it is a foreign exchange weighting charge  applied  by the bank 
apparently at whatever level it likes. He suggests  that by the investigators  reasoning  the 
bank could have  applied a 100% weighting charge and he would have received nothing. He 
maintains if he had been aware of the charge he would have opened another account with 
no charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs points. He received approximately  £460  less than he was expecting and 
that feels like a charge.  But I dont think  the bank misled him and I dont think  it acted unfairly 
so I wont be asking  it to do anything.
Ref: DRN67766212In order to work out how much money  he was going to get Mr R needed  to know about  
charges and the exchange rate. In his call he asked about the charges but didnt ask any 
questions about  the exchange rate and let the bank employees comment  that the 
conversion would be at whatever the rate is when we get it go unchallenged. Mr R seems  to 
be an intelligent and thoughtful man. I think he must  have realised that where there were no 
charges there would be a margin between the buying  and selling rate. To take Mr Rs 
extreme example, had this margin been  such that Mr R had received nothing  then I would 
have said he had been unfairly treated. But this service generally doesnt  interfere  with 
commercial decisions regarding buying and selling rates.  And the amount Mr R received isnt 
so much less than he was expecting that I can say he has been unfairly treated. 
I can understand why Mr R would feel disappointed  that he might  have ended up with more 
money if he had used a different business  to carry out the transaction  but I dont think First 
Direct misled him. He could have chosen to go to a business that would have provided him 
with complete transparency regarding what he would receive but instead chose one which  
didnt offer that clarity.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6776621