K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans which he couldnt  afford to pay back.  
background 
Mr T took out 47 instalment loans with Sunny between August 2017  and February 2019. 
Mr T says he was in financial difficulty and trapped in a cycle of borrowing.
In its final response to Mr Ts complaint Sunny agreed to refund all interest and charges  that 
Mr T paid on loans  34 to 47. Mr T wasnt happy  with that offer and brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt  wrong for Sunny to have 
given Mr T loans 1 to 6. But at the point of loan 7 Mr Ts borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and Sunny shouldve done  more checks. At the point of loan 8 our Adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldve seen that he was persistently relying on these loans and further lending 
wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  
Mr T was persistently relying  on the credit. It pointed out that Mr T was required to use only a 
small amount of his income towards the loans and his application was subject to checking. 
The business did offer to refund all interest and charges incurred from loans 29 to 33 in 
addition to loans  34 to 47. 
Mr T didnt  accept that offer so the complaint was passed to me to decide. Before I was able 
to make a decision Sunny  reviewed the complaint again and made a further offer to refund 
all interest and charges  from loans  17 onwards.  Mr T didnt respond to that offer and so the 
complaint remains for me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN66997442the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr T could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr T. It asked Mr T for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ts credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr T loans 1 to 6 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr T 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
six, I dont think that I need  to say more about  them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would recommend for loans 
17 to 47, so I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loans 7 to 17.
At the point of loan 7 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Ts borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr T had taken 4 loans  in four days.  This was only a few weeks after he had 
repaid loans 1 to 3. Taking out this many  loans within such  a short  time frame  should have 
prompted Sunny to consider whether this lending was sustainable for Mr T. His pattern of 
borrowing suggested that he was reliant on short term credit  and not managing his money 
responsibly. Ive taken into account  the flexibility of this product. They are instalment loans 
with 6 monthly terms but Mr T was taking out overlapping loans  and repaying  them  early, 
presumably to save on interest, but then Mr T had to borrow  again. So I think the signs  were 
there that Mr T was struggling and Sunny shouldnt have given him any loans after loan 6.
 
Ref: DRN66997443Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ts lending  with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr T.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan 8. I say this because:
When Mr T took out loan 8, hed been borrowing  almost continually and wasnt making 
any inroads into the amount that he owed. 
Mr T asked for loan 8 just over a week after he had repaid loans 4 to 7. It looks as 
though Mr T was borrowing again  to cover the hole in his finances left by repaying the 
previous loans. I think this pattern of lending  shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood 
that Mr T was having problems responsibly  managing his money. 
I think that Mr T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan 8 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mr T had been  borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr T in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint about loans 7 to 17 in addition to loans 18 to 47.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, not including  anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr T which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr T originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN66997444C.Record any adverse  information from Mr Ts credit file about loan 7. The number of 
loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 8 to 47 should be removed from Mr Ts credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6699744