K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his bank accounts  and hasnt  provided  a 
reason for doing so.
background
Mr H held both business and personal accounts with Barclays.  In October 2018 it wrote  to 
Mr H giving him two months notice  that it was no longer  willing to offer him banking facilities  
and would be closing  his accounts. Mr H complained about this to Barclays,  saying  it hadnt  
given any reasons for closing his accounts. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint or 
provide any further  reasons for its decision so Mr H referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint. He explained  Barclays  was entitled to 
close the account provided it gave the notice within  the terms and conditions,  which  it had. 
And he said Barclays wasnt required to provide  a reason to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree. He has said he has mental  health issues and is experiencing financial 
hardship and this closure of his accounts has made  this worse. He asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint,  so its been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for the same reasons.
Barclays terms and conditions for both its personal and business accounts  allow  it to close 
an account by giving  at least two months notice. And it gave  the required notice in this 
situation. 
Mr H has said the terms and conditions  reference a number of reasons why Barclays  can 
close an account and he doesnt believe any of them  apply to him. But the reasons hes 
referring to only apply when Barclays doesnt give two months notice. In Mr Hs situation, it 
did give him two months notice, so these reasons arent relevant. Whilst Im sure it must  be 
really frustrating for Mr H not to know why his accounts have been closed, Barclays  isnt 
required to provide its reasons if it doesnt want to. Ultimately, its up to Barclays to decide 
who it does and doesnt want as a customer.  And unfortunately for Mr H, its chosen not to 
offer him banking  facilities anymore.
 
Mr H has told us he suffers from mental health issues. I would  expect Barclays to take this 
into account when  dealing with him and make reasonable adjustments. But I cant  see he 
ever told Barclays  about this. So Barclays couldnt  have taken this into account when making 
the decision to close his accounts.
I understand Mr H will be very disappointed,  but Barclays is entitled to close his account with 
the notice its given him. And it doesnt  have to give him a reason why.
Ref: DRN65825782my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6582578