K821x#15complaint
Mr M says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Mr M says this caused him a 
number of issues on his credit card account.  He says he was unable  to monitor his spending 
on the weekend  of the upgrade, which was also his birthday weekend.  This meant he 
overspent which impacted his finances.  
Mr M received a refund from a retailer of over £1,000 into his credit card account. This put 
his account into a credit balance.  He says it took over three weeks for the credit  balance to 
be transferred to his current account despite  him making multiple requests. This further 
impacted his finances.
Mr Ms TSB credit card had the additional  benefit of accruing  avios points as he spent. And 
he could receive  a companion voucher for a flight  if he spent enough  money over the 
course of a year. Mr M didnt feel his avios points had been  added correctly  ever since the 
end of April 2018,  and thinks he received his companion voucher later than expected. This 
meant he had to buy two separate tickets  for a flight,  instead  of being able to use his 
companion voucher for one of them. He would like this financial  loss to be reimbursed.
TSB sent Mr M a final response in which it offered him £100 for the impact the issues had 
caused him, plus £50 for any expenses he may have  incurred.  Mr M disagreed  so two of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint. They both felt that the compensation should be 
increased to a total of £300  for the distress and inconvenience Mr M had been caused.  And 
that he hadnt incurred any direct financial  losses as a result of the IT issues.
TSB agreed  with this recommendation, but Mr M didnt. He felt it didnt reflect  the impact the 
issues had on him and he remained unhappy  TSB had taken so long to respond to his 
complaint. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the previous  recommendation made  of £300 compensation and 
Ill explain  why. 
weekend of the IT upgrade
The weekend of the IT upgrades was also the weekend  of Mr Ms birthday. Hes said that he 
couldnt access his account online during the weekend to monitor  his spending so had to 
spend cautiously as a result. But despite  this hes also said he overspent  during the 
weekend causing  him to have less disposable  cash the following month.  
TSB has given me a copy of Mr Ms statements from January  2018 onwards. Looking at this, 
I cant see Mr Ms spending was significantly different over the weekend in question.  In 
January 2018  Mr M spent  significantly  more on his card than in later months. But after then 
his spending fluctuates between £850 and £1,700 per month. April and May arent 
Ref: DRN67254262particularly different, so it doesnt look like the weekend of the migration  has had a significant 
effect on Mr Ms finances. Mr M also largely  pays off whatever  hes spent each month and 
again, this doesnt significantly change after April 2018. 
I appreciate it must have  been frustrating for Mr M to not be able to monitor  his account as 
hed like to, especially when he wanted to celebrate  a special occasion. But it doesnt look 
like this had a large impact on his finances after the weekend  of the IT issues.
refund of the credit balance
Mr M received a refund from a third party onto his credit card on 11 June 2018. This put his 
account into a credit balance. From  TSBs  internal notes I can see he asked for the credit 
balance to be transferred  to his current account on at least 19 June 2018. This wasnt 
actioned by TSB and Mr M had to chase this. The credit balance was only transferred on     
5 July 2018, just over two weeks after he requested it. And it mustve been  stressful  for Mr M 
not to have had this amount in his current account for that length of time.  Ive taken this into 
consideration when thinking about  the impact the IT issues  have  had on Mr M. 
avios points and companion voucher
Mr M thought the avios points hed accrued on his credit card hadnt been added  correctly on 
his statements. After  looking at this, TSB agreed and corrected this by adding  an additional 
1199 points in December 2018  and 726 points in February 2019.  TSB have now assured me 
the points are correct  and Mr M hasnt asked us to look at the details of this complaint point 
further. But I have  considered the inconvenience Mr M has been caused in trying to correct  
the points on his statement. 
Another benefit of the credit card account  was a companion voucher if Mr M spent over 
£15,000 in one year. This means if he bought a qualifying plane  ticket, he would  receive an 
additional ticket  for the same flight free of charge. Mr M thinks  there was a delay in him 
receiving the companion  voucher in 2018 and because of this he couldnt  use it for his 
holiday in October 2018.  He would like to be reimbursed  for the cost of the additional plane 
ticket.
TSB has confirmed the annual cycle in which Mr M needed to spend a minimum of £15,000  
started again in August 2018.  So Mr M shouldve received a companion  voucher sometime  
after this. TSB realised this hadnt  been actioned  on 10 September  2018 and sent a request 
for the voucher to be sent to Mr M. So there was a delay in him receiving it. 
Mr M says he missed  out on using the voucher for his holiday in October  2018.  In order to 
use it, Mr M needed  to have the companion  voucher before he booked the flight and the 
flight had to be a qualifying one under the scheme.  And I dont know  if this would have been 
the case for Mr M so I cant  safely say he couldve used it on that particular flight. In any 
event, Mr M did still receive a companion voucher that he could use on a future flight. So he 
didnt lose the ability to use the voucher; hes just received it later than expected.  Because of 
this, I dont agree that the possible lost opportunity  to use the voucher on the October  flight  
is a financial loss.
I can see there have been a few separate issues that Mr M has experienced and that theyve 
caused him some trouble  and upset.  And I understand  why Mr M is unhappy with TSBs 
service, especially when  hes tried to complain to them. After  carefully  considering 
Ref: DRN67254263everything, I agree with the previous recommendations  of £300 compensation and I think  
this is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
putting things right
To put things right, TSB should pay Mr M £300 for the impact the IT issues  had.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6725426