K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly refused to pay her the 
government bonus  due on her Help to Buy ISA. 
background
Ms T opened a Help to Buy ISA online with Bank of Scotland. As part of a government 
backed scheme, the Help to Buy ISA offered a 25% bonus on savings when the account is 
closed. 
Ms T found a property  to purchase  and in August 2018 she transferred the majority of funds 
from her Help to Buy ISA to her solicitor,  using her online  banking,  to pay her deposit. This 
left a balance  of approximately £60 in her account. 
In September  2018 Ms T went to a Bank of Scotland branch  to close  the account and obtain  
a closing statement, which she could then use to claim the government bonus. Ms T was 
unhappy the closing statement showed her balance as £60, and not the sum shed saved 
before her transfer  to her solicitor. 
Bank of Scotland explained  the terms of the account  stated she needed to close  the account 
in branch before making any transfers.  It also said she wouldve been presented with a 
warning before she completed  her withdrawal, advising her of the potential  implications of 
making a transfer  from her ISA. 
Ms T complained that she wasnt made aware  shed need  to close the Help to Buy ISA in 
branch. She said it was unfair shed missed  out on the government bonus due to a 
technicality. 
Our investigator considered the complaint,  but didnt uphold  it. He was satisfied 
Bank of Scotland had followed Ms Ts instructions both when she made the transfer to her 
solicitor and when  it provided  her with her closing statement.  As there  was no evidence  the 
bank had made a mistake  he couldnt ask it to pay Ms T the bonus she felt she was owed.  
Ms T disagreed. She accepted shed made a mistake when she withdrew money from her 
account, but didnt feel it was fair for her to miss out on the bonus because of a technicality. 
She also thought  the terms and conditions were  unclear. 
Ms T has asked for an ombudsman to review her case, so its been  passed to me to reach  a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator,  for broadly the same reasons. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms T so Id like to explain how Ive reached  this conclusion. 
The scheme rules that govern Help to Buy ISAs  are set out by HM Treasury.  This includes 
the rule that the closing bonus  will be calculated based on the closing statement received 
from the account. Bank of Scotland has no control over this rule, how the government  bonus 
is applied for nor how its calculated. So I cant comment  on the fairness  of Ms T missing  out 
Ref: DRN60847662on the closing  bonus, as this is down to the operation of the scheme rules which  fall outside 
the scope of this service.  
So Ive considered whether Bank  of Scotland gave Ms T sufficient  information  about how the 
account operated,  to enable her to make  informed choices. Ive also considered whether it 
correctly followed her instructions. 
As Ms T opened the account on line, without receiving any advice, Bank  of Scotland wasnt 
responsible for ensuring the product was suitable  for her. But it was responsible for ensuring 
she was provided  with sufficient information  about how the account worked. 
Bank of Scotland has shown us that when selecting a Help to Buy ISA online,  Ms T would 
have been shown a Help  to Buy: ISA at a glance  summary box which  set out the main 
features of the account. Under the section claiming  your bonus it explains that the account 
needs to be closed in branch or by post. Under  the section how it works  it explains that you 
cant claim a bonus on any amount you withdraw  from the account. 
Ms T would also have been advised  to read the account conditions before applying for the 
account. Within  the account conditions it states:
Remember , you must close your Help to Buy: ISA to claim your bonus. If you withdraw  or 
transfer without  closing the account  in one of our branches with a counter,  you cannot claim 
any bonus on the amount taken out. You should  not withdraw or transfer savings you mean 
to use for the purchase of your first home without understanding  the effect on your bonus.
The account  conditions  also explain  that the scheme rules are set by HM Treasury  and can 
be found at https://www.helptobuy.gov.uk/. 
 
Bank of Scotland has also demonstrated  that when Ms T came to make  the transfer she was 
presented with a warning  screen that advised her she would not be able to claim any bonus 
on any amount she withdrew  from the Help to Buy ISA. Its said she had to accept this 
warning before the transaction could be processed. 
Having carefully considered all the information,  Im satisfied Bank of Scotland provided Ms T 
with sufficiently clear information about the key features of the account,  and how the bonus 
could be claimed,  both when she opened the account and before she made  the transfer to 
her solicitors. So I cant say its acted unfairly  or unreasonably either when the account  was 
opened or when  the funds were withdrawn  from Ms Ts account.  
Ms T hasnt disputed that she applied to withdraw  a lump sum from her Help to Buy ISA to 
transfer to her solicitors,  or that she requested  a closing statement after shed withdrawn  
funds from her account. Her main concern is the overall fairness  of the scheme rules. As it 
seems Bank of Scotland  followed Ms Ts instructions, having presented  her with the 
necessary warnings, I again cant say its acted  unfairly or unreasonably in allowing her to 
withdraw funds from her account before  she closed  the account  in branch. Indeed this is one 
of the features of the account. Similarly, I cant say Bank of Scotland acted unreasonably by 
providing her with a closing statement  which accurately reflected the status  of her account at 
that time.  
While I can appreciate Ms Ts understandable  frustration  at losing out on the bonus for her 
Help to Buy ISA, I cant say Bank  of Scotland were responsible for this, or did anything  
wrong. 
Ref: DRN60847663my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6084766