K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont give him the information he needs to transfer  the 
balance on his credit  card account to another provider.
background
In 2015 Lloyds raised the interest  rate Mr S was paying on his credit card account. He took 
the option the bank  offered him of keeping the previous  interest rate. But he had to close his 
account to do so. 
Mr S continued to make payments to reduce  the balance on his account but he said Lloyds 
recently told him hes paying more in interest  than hes paying off the balance.  So he 
decided to transfer the balance to a credit  card with another bank to get a promotional  0% 
interest rate. This meant he could pay more off the outstanding capital sum. But the other 
bank needed the expiry  date of the card.  Lloyds  said his credit card, which  was closed in 
2015, had an expiry date of 2017.  And it wasnt renewed. But Mr S said this date wasnt  
acceptable to the other  bank. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted  in line with its terms and conditions so she 
couldnt see itd done anything wrong.
Mr S wasnt  happy with her opinion.  He thought Lloyds  had acted unfairly by not explaining 
to him when  he closed  the account that he wouldnt be able to transfer the balance  to 
another bank  at a later date. He thought  his account was not so much  closed  by mutual 
agreement but more of a forced closure  by Lloyds.  And he wants this Service to request 
the transcripts of calls and copies of the letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Im satisfied I have enough 
information to reach  my decision. 
Mr Ss original  complaint  is that Lloyds couldnt  give him an expiry date on his closed credit 
card which prevented him from making  a balance transfer to another bank. 
Mr S closed his account in 2015 so he could keep the existing interest rate. His card account 
was due to expire  in 2017. And because the account was now closed the card wasnt 
renewed. So the only date Lloyds could  give him was the expiry date of the old card. That 
date wasnt acceptable  to the bank  that was offering him a promotional 0% interest  on a 
balance transfer.  But I cant find thats  the fault of Lloyds.
Im pleased to see that Mr S has managed to transfer his balance  in another  way. But he 
now complains about the options  he was presented with in 2015 when he closed  his 
account. He says he wasnt given enough  information at the time to make an informed 
decision. He wants  to see transcripts of calls and copies of letters.  But Lloyds needs to be 
given an opportunity to investigate  this new complaint. If Mr S would  like to pursue this he 
will need  to raise it with the bank.  If he needs  any help in doing  so our investigator will assist  
him.
Ref: DRN67332122my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6733212