K820x#14Complaint
Mr C is unhappy HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a payment  he made after he
was the victim of a scam.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021  to explain why I thought Mr Cs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me.
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
In December 2018, Mr C was tricked  into transferring money to a fraudster. Hed been in 
discussion with a colleague about the repayment of a recent  loan, when he received an 
email purportedly from the same colleague  asking him to transfer £15,000 to the account 
details provided  in the email.
It is not in dispute  that Mr C authorised  the scam payment of £15,000.  He had been 
discussing the repayment of the loan with his colleague and was expecting to make the 
transfer when  the email  was received. The email appeared to be in the same vein of others 
that Mr C had been responding to and appeared to come from the colleague he had been  in 
contact with.
So, on 18 December 2018,  Mr C transferred the money as per the instructions he was sent 
in the email. He did so via online banking and he has told us he set up a new payee to make  
the payment.
When Mr C was contacted by his colleague  the next day to enquire about  the payment, Mr C 
was able to provide a screenshot of it leaving his account. It was at this point, Mr C realised 
that the transfer hadnt reached  its destination.  It then came  to light that Mr Cs colleague 
had not sent the email containing the updated account details. And the £15,000 loan 
repayment had not been paid into their account. Mr C had fallen victim  to a sophisticated 
scam - the email Mr C received was from a fraudster who had managed  to send a fake email 
to Mr C  which appeared  just like genuine ones sent by his colleague  and without further 
scrutiny, appeared to come  from the same email  address.
Once it became  apparent that Mr C had fallen victim to a scam, he contacted  HSBC  to tell 
them what  had happened. HSBC contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank used by the 
fraudster) on the same day to try and recover Mr Cs funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary 
bank responded  to advise  only partial  funds  remained  £6.50. HSBC informed Mr C that the 
remaining funds would  be credited back to him and it was unable to do anything further to 
recover the remaining  funds. HSBC said it wouldnt refund the £15,000 payment to Mr C.
Mr C was unhappy with the response he received from HSBC and so referred the complaint 
to this service. It was looked  at by an investigator who thought  it should  be upheld in full.
The investigator said that the £15,000  payment was unusual and out of character compared  
to how Mr C usually managed his account  and so she wouldve expected HSBC to identify it 
as potentially fraudulent and to have questioned Mr C about  it before processing it. The 
investigator thought  that had HSBC done so, the scam wouldve been  uncovered  and 
prevented.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators  opinion. In particular, it said:
Ref: DRN65951482Had the payment  flagged  and Mr C been  spoken to, its most likely he wouldve 
confirmed he was repaying a loan to his colleague and would have been  happy to 
continue with making the payment  of £15,000;
HSBC had complied  with its duty of care to Mr C and had followed his instructions in 
making the payment. HSBC had worked  with the beneficiary bank as soon as they 
were made aware of the scam and repatriated the recovered sum to Mr C on 17 
January 2019;
The case  involved a single transaction and Mr C had made the payment himself with 
no HSBC staff interaction. The payment  was relatively modest with a similar payment 
made from the same account only a month earlier. In November 2018,  a payment of 
£15,000 was credited  into the account  from a colleague which  was later transferred 
out of the account.
Because HSBC  disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am currently  minded to 
conclude that this complaint should not be upheld, for the following  reasons:
Theres no question in my mind that Mr C has been the victim of a sophisticated and cruel 
scam. I am very sorry to hear about the circumstances  he has found himself in. But the 
question that I have to consider here is the extent to which HSBC can be considered liable 
for his loss.
It is not in dispute  that Mr C authorised  the scam payment himself.  He was duped  by the 
fraudster into believing  he was sending the funds to his colleagues account.  And so I accept  
that the payment was authorised even though Mr C was the victim of a sophisticated scam. 
He logged into his online banking using his security details  to request the payment be 
processed. So, although he did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ref: DRN65951483In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, HSBC should have been  on the look-out for 
unusual and out of character transactions.  But I dont agree with the Investigator  and Im not 
satisfied that the activity  that took place on Mr Cs account during  the scam was unusual and 
out of character for him. Ill explain why.
In November 2018, Mr C had received a £15,000  payment  into the account from his 
colleague. This was later transferred out of his account, to his business. This mirrors  the 
activity that takes  place  on the account during  the scam - Mr C receives  a large  credit  into 
the account, this time for £19,000, and then transfers £15,000 out soon after, on the same  
day. So, whilst I recognise that there werent many  payments of this nature, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that the previous activity on this account  meant that this specific  payment wouldnt 
have appeared  unusual  or out of character for Mr C - he had made a virtually identical 
transaction just one month before. And so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to say there  was anything  about this payment that wouldve stood out and provided HSBC  
with a reasonable basis for suspecting that Mr C was at risk of financial harm.  For this 
reason, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold HSBC liable for Mr Cs loss  the fault 
here lies with the fraudsters.
Its worth  noting that I think the legitimate £15,000  transfer Mr C had made  in the month prior 
shouldve flagged on HSBCs security systems  Mr C had not made  a similar  payment  
before. But even if it had, I think Mr C wouldve told HSBC that the transfer was legitimate, it 
was a loan from his colleague which he was using to improve the cash-flow  of his business. 
Once notified of this, Im satisfied it would have  been even less likely that the later scam 
payment wouldve raised  suspicion. HSBC wouldve simply thought  Mr C was repaying the 
loan he had received the month  before, which they had already discussed.
Mr C contacted HSBC  on 19 December 2018 as soon as he became aware that hed been  
the victim of a scam  one day after authorising the payment. And HSBC contacted the 
beneficiary bank  on the same day to request a return  of the funds,  within one hour of 
speaking to Mr C. But unfortunately, the beneficiary bank confirmed that only partial funds  
remained in the account.
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of HSBC.  So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and 
retrieve the money was all HSBC could do to help Mr C at that stage. And so, I dont think  
HSBC has treated Mr C unfairly  here either.
I note that Mr C has referred to other banks approach to complaints such as this one and 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said about HSBC now being a signatory to the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model.  But the model  wasnt introduced until after Mr C made  
the payment in question here and it is not retrospective. I can only apply the standards that 
Ref: DRN65951484applied at the time, those that Ive applied here.  And so, I cant fairly  compel  HSBC  to apply 
a code it wasnt signed up to.
While I appreciate Mr Cs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think  HSBCs decision to 
not to refund  him the remaining amount, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, is 
fair and reasonable. It followed Mr Cs instruction  to make the payment and I havent seen 
any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. And I think it did all it could to try and recover Mr 
Cs funds when notified of the scam.
I want to stress that I feel considerable  sympathy for what  Mr C has been through  here. But 
unfortunately, whilst  Im sorry to have  to disappoint  him, I dont think that this was a 
consequence of any specific  failing on the part of HSBC.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC responded  to say it accepted what I had said in my provisional decision. Mr C 
responded to say he did not agree and he asked me to consider some  additional points  
which I have summarised below:
Mr C didnt think the transactions in November and December 2018  could  be 
considered a pattern of activity. Mr C felt that if both transactions  were compared to 
his account history more  generally  - HSBC had 25 years of his account history  
available - the transactions would be considered unusual and out of character even if 
only compared to the last few years. 
The December transfer was made  to a different account to the transfer made in 
November and this could/should have  raised suspicions at HSBC.  
HSBC missed two separate opportunities to contact Mr C but were not being held 
accountable for these  failures. 
If HSBC had contacted him about  the December transfer, he wouldve double-
checked the details of the transfer  and the scam wouldve been prevented.   
As HSBC did not contact Mr C in November it wouldnt have been aware  that he was 
intending to repay the loan and so, not being aware of any legitimate reason  for the 
December transfer, Mr C shouldve been contacted  before it was processed. 
Mr C felt he was being  held solely accountable for the scam and HSBC were not 
being held to account for their inaction  and this did not seem fair.
Ive thought carefully about the additional  points raised by Mr C but I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill address each point in turn and Ill 
explain why.
My role in deciding this case is not to attach blame  or to punish either Mr C or HSBC. It is to 
decide whether  HSBC  shouldve had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer made in December 2018 before it before it allowed it to leave  Mr Cs account, and if 
it shouldve, whether this would  have  prevented the scam from taking place. 
I acknowledge what Mr C has said about  the transactions  appearing unusual and out of 
character when compared to his account history as a whole. And I can also understand why 
he doesnt think one similar transaction to the scam payment should mean that the activity  
on his account  could be considered usual. However, I also have to take into account that 
there is a balance to be struck between identifying potentially fraudulent  payments and 
Ref: DRN65951485minimising disruption to legitimate  payments   and this can often be a difficult line to draw. 
HSBCs fraud-monitoring system is configured to look out for indicators that a transaction 
may be being made as a result  of fraud.  This check needs to happen virtually 
instantaneously and there isnt a manual review of decades of account history   this would  
not be possible. 
Generally, fraud monitoring will often include a comparison of the requested transaction with 
recent activity in order to make a decision as to whether the transaction should prompt  
further checks or not. And whilst I appreciate that Mr C had only made one similar 
transaction to the scam payment, this payment was almost identical to the one made during 
the scam  and it had taken place only the month  before.  And so I dont  think it would be fair to 
say HSBC shouldve  identified the scam payment as unusual enough to prompt  further 
checks before being processed  Mr C had made an almost  identical legitimate payment 
very recently. I also dont  agree with Mr C that the payment being made to a new payee 
shouldve prompted  further checks. Customers regularly  set up new payees to facilitate 
payments out of their accounts and this alone  is not an indicator that someone  is at risk of 
financial harm. 
I also acknowledge what Mr C has said about HSBC failing to contact  him about the transfer  
he made in November 2018. As I said in my provisional decision, I think  it shouldve. But 
HSBCs failure  in November 2018  doesnt  necessarily  mean  that it should now be held liable 
for Mr Cs loss. If HSBC had contacted Mr C about the transfer  he made in November 2018, 
it seems likely that he wouldve confirmed  the payment  as legitimate and it would have been 
processed at his request  as it was despite  the lack of contact. It would not have prevented 
the scam  payment leaving his account  a month later - in December 2018. So, whilst I do 
think HSBC shouldve done more in relation to the transaction made in November 2018, I 
dont think this means HSBC should now be liable to repay Mr C what he lost during the 
scam.
I am sorry  that Mr C has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for him to have lost. I 
also understand this whole  experience was very frustrating and upsetting  for him. I want to 
make it clear  that I am not saying  that the loss he has suffered is his fault - this was a 
particularly sophisticated  scam. But neither then can I say that the loss was caused  by any 
specific failing on behalf of HSBC. The fault here lies with the cruel  and callous fraudsters 
themselves. So, in the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly  say HSBC couldve done  more 
to help Mr C and should now refund him the money  he lost as part of the scam.
Ref: DRN65951486My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC  Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6595148