K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about the handling  of a claim under their home  emergency  
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited. Mr and Mrs B are represented  in this 
complaint by their son. Any time I refer to Mr and Mrs B in this decision, it should  be read as 
including anything said or done on their behalf by their son. 
background
Mr and Mrs B called British Gas at 10.30pm on 13 April 2018, as there  was a leak coming  
from the toilet in an upstairs bathroom. British Gas said that a contractor would come  to 
them that evening  but the contractor called them later to say he wouldnt be attending  as 
there was no point and would  attend  the next morning. Mr B says he was told that he might 
not need to turn the water off but he did so to stop the leak.  
The contractor attended in the afternoon on 14 April 2018 and diagnosed the issue  and said
he would  order parts. The engineer returned on 23 April 2018 and completed the repair.  
However, Mr and Mrs B are very unhappy  that British Gas didnt attend sooner to isolate the 
leak and say considerable damage has been caused to the property as a result.
Mr and Mrs B have  raised a number  of issues and made a number of submissions, which 
Ive summarised below: 
The contractor offered to fit a push button  flush mechanism, stop cock and jet spray 
for the toilet, which  would be more easily used by people with medical  conditions  like 
Mr and Mrs B. He said that this wouldnt be covered but would look to do it in 
response to the complaint. However, this has not been mentioned again. 
British Gas failed  to respond to the complaint at all until they brought  the matter  to
us. 
British Gas carried out three repairs previously to the area of the leak but each time 
they havent been fixed properly.  
The leak caused  damage to the electrics and the kitchen and so his parents  both of 
whom have medical conditions which make  them vulnerable   were left without lights  
and cooking facilities  for 48 hours.
The contractors spotted  the bath was blocked but twice failed to unblock  it.
Why has British Gas carried on taking  more money each month and not made 
anyone accountable for the damage  or compensated them?
They had only one toilet  on the ground floor and vulnerable people in the house. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He didnt consider that British Gas was 
responsible for the damage to the kitchen  and other  downstairs  rooms.  He didnt think there  
was any evidence that British Gas had caused this leak due to any previous inadequate or 
incomplete repairs but he did think it should  have  come  out sooner given Mr and Mrs Bs 
personal circumstances. The repair also took longer than it should  have done. The 
adjudicator recommended  that British Gas pay compensation of £500 to reflect this. 
Mr and Mrs B dont  accept that this is enough. They have said:   
The home insurer is going to replace part of the kitchen but not all; and the look of 
the bath and kitchen has failed.
British Gas plumbers  have not fully fixed the issue before, so how can they be sure 
this is not the case now? 
Ref: DRN67291232They have asked  for a guarantee of the plumbing behind  the WC, provide a new 
toilet and safe stop cock - all for vulnerable people in mind.
They have to pay the home  insurance excess and make  numerous calls, emails,  
complaints, travel,  suffer  stress  anxiety.
They have been left with damage  and still continue to pay British Gas.  
They are taking  advantage of their vulnerability and the £500  compensation 
recommended does not cover all this.
Their condition has deteriorated since this event. 
The kitchen, paid for out of retirement  savings  has been destroyed by British Gas 
and the matter has not been  addressed and they have  not had any compensation 
which they are satisfied with. 
They intend to pursue  the matter further under the Disability  Discrimination Act, and 
Equalities Act, unless  British Gas provides compensation for the kitchen units, 
ceilings, walls destroyed by the leak. 
British Gas accepted that it had not provided a good  enough  service  but thinks the 
compensation recommended by the adjudicator  is too high. 
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was a considerable leak at Mr and Mrs Bs property and I can understand the distress  
and inconvenience  this has caused.  However, I can only consider making an order  that 
British Gas pay for all or part of the damage  that leak caused, if it resulted directly  and solely 
from something that British Gas did or didnt do. 
The leak was reported late on 13 April 2018.  A telephone note on British  Gass file says 
Cust [customers] son managed to isolate leak eventually after hour or so, cust should  leak 
from behind toilet and was catching  water emptying it. Cust managed to fully contained  
around after hours of water pouring  out. 
From this it appears that British Gas was told that Mr and Mrs Bs son was able to isolate the 
leak, I assume by turning  off the mains water supply, around  an hour after noticing  it and that 
the water  already in the system drained  out and they caught as much of it as possible but it 
all drained out after a couple  of hours.  
Theres also a note on the home insurance  file when Mr and Mrs Bs son reported the claim 
to the home insurer on 19 April 2018, which says:  
Mr advised the leak was coming from the pipe behind the upstairs toilet,  this leak allowed 
water to gush out, PH [policyholder] advised  it was a steady flow of water for approx. 2 hours  
before they were  able to get the leak stopped. 
The leak has not been properly repaired, however it has now stopped. 
PH realised there was a leak when water  was coming down through  the kitchen ceiling, this 
was the first time they were ever aware of this leak. However PH did confirm there was a 
Ref: DRN67291233leak a few years ago from the same place, however the leak was fixed  and there  was no 
resulting damage
How long has the water  been flowing: 1-8 Hours.
Both these  notes suggest that the water was stopped a relatively short  time after Mr and Mrs 
B noticed the leak and that prior to that considerable water had already escaped.  So even if I 
agreed that British  Gass  contractor should have  attended  on the evening of 13 April 2018, I 
cant see that this position  would have  been  any different. He would not reasonably have 
been expected to arrive and shut off the water any sooner than Mr and Mrs B were  able to 
do  i.e. an hour to two hours after noticing  the leak.  
Mr and Mrs B have  also suggested that the leak happened because some  previous repairs 
to the same  area were not done  properly. There is no convincing  evidence to support this. 
And I note again that Mr and Mrs B told the home  insurer  there had been a leak tot eh area a 
few years previously but theres no evidence that this was linked. 
Given this, I am not persuaded that the resultant  damage to the rooms below the bathroom 
were solely and directly the result  of British Gas not attending on 13 April 2018, or anything  
else that British  Gas should  or should  not have done. 
It seems  to me the water  damage would have happened already and anyway. I dont 
therefore intend to require  it to make any contribution towards  the cost of the replacement  
kitchen.
I also dont consider that I can make British Gas replace a stop tap, toilet flushing 
mechanism or any other appliance in these circumstances.  These might be sensible 
adaptations given Mr and Mrs Bs personal  circumstances but I am not persuaded that the 
cost of any such work should be met by British  Gas. 
However, I do agree with the adjudicator that the repairs took longer than they should  have 
done and even if the water damage  would  have been caused  anyway, Mr and Mrs B should 
have had the assurance from an engineer  on the evening  they reported  the claim. This 
would have caused additional avoidable  distress and inconvenience, especially having  
regard to Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances. I agree  that £500 compensation is 
appropriate.   
my final decision
I uphold the complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited  and require it to pay Mr and 
Mrs B the sum of £500 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its 
handling of the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6729123