K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr S complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold their interest only mortgage. They 
want Santander to pay them  compensation and give them a new 20 year mortgage  on a 
repayment basis at a fixed interest  rate.
background
Miss S and Mr S took out a mortgage in November 2004. The mortgage was for a 14 year 
term on an interest only basis, with the interest  rate fixed  until October 2006.
Miss S and Mr S took out new products  in 2006,  2012, 2014 and 2017 and Mr S paid a 
capital sum of £80,000 towards the mortgage in 2014.
Miss S complained to Santander in July 2018 that her mortgage had been mis-sold. And she 
said in particular:
 the adviser  didnt properly establish her attitude  to risk;
 the mortgage was dependant  on Mr S becoming a guarantor, but the adviser confused this 
arrangement by naming him as co-owner;
 Methods for repaying the mortgage, such as a repayment mortgage,  were not discussed 
with her;
 The adviser didnt discuss how she would repay  the mortgage  when it finished;
 The adviser didnt explain that she might  need  to switch her mortgage to a repayment 
mortgage rather than relying on rising  house  prices;
 The adviser didnt tell her that Santander would  offer no assistance or an alternative 
mortgage when  the mortgage finished;
 The mortgage wasnt suitable for her in the long term.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. It said that it had been brought out of time.
Miss S referred the complaint to this service. She said that she hadnt been  offered an 
extension in spite of multiple requests, and it wasnt clear what would happen  when her 
current mortgage ended. And she said that Santander had made  matters  worse by 
converting her mortgage to interest only, whereas it had originally been  part capital 
repayment and part interest only.
our investigators view
Our investigator initially felt that he could only look at what  had happened  after July 2012.  
And he didnt think that the complaint should  be upheld. But Miss S and Mr S didnt  agree,  
so the complaint was referred  to an ombudsman, who decided that this service could look at 
events before July 2012.
The investigator subsequently issued a further opinion. He said,  in summary:
When Miss S and Mr S originally took out the mortgage in August 2004 the business 
was required to ask them whether they had a plan when  it came to repaying the 
mortgage, as it was taken out on an interest  only basis;
Hed seen the fact find and recommendation letter  from when the advice was given. 
These both showed that the plan was for Mr S to remain  on the mortgage as a 
temporary measure until he was able to pay off a lump  sum towards the mortgage  
Ref: DRN61941082when selling  his house. Miss S and Mr S could then review the situation to see 
whether they would ask for him to come  off the mortgage  possibly adding  Miss Ss 
partner onto the mortgage at that time, and also eventually changing the mortgage  to 
a full repayment basis. Based on this he was satisfied that the business had carried  
out the required checks;
When the mortgage was taken out the onus was on Miss S and Mr S to ensure their 
mortgage was ultimately  repaid,  and Santander wasnt  required to monitor this. It just 
needed to remind  them  of the importance  of having a plan - and the investigator was 
satisfied that it had done this;
Miss S and Mr S had said they felt that the original  mortgage was suitable but that, in 
the long run the mortgage hadnt turned  out to be suitable for them. He understood 
that this had come from their belief that when  they took out a new rate in March  2012 
Santander converted the mortgage from a part repayment part interest only mortgage 
to an interest only mortgage.  But while he appreciated that there  had been some  
confusion his investigations had shown that the mortgage was solely interest only.
Miss S and Mr S didnt agree with our investigators  findings and so the complaint was 
referred to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 27 August 2020. I said, in summary:
Id seen a copy  of the mortgage offer sent to Mr S and Miss S in August 2004,  
together with a letter summarising the discussion  between  Mr S and the adviser. That 
letter stated that Mr S and Miss S wanted the ability  to pay off lump sums and for the 
monthly payments  to be fixed.  It also recorded that the plan was to pay off a lump  
sum once Mr S sold his property  and to come  off the mortgage  while  maintaining a 
charge on the property. And it said that eventually  the mortgage  would  be converted 
back onto a repayment basis with a transfer of equity taking Mr S off and maybe 
adding Miss Ss partner  to the mortgage;
The letter stated that the most suitable product available was a two year fixed rate 
flexible mortgage  on an interest only basis. The interest only basis  was to lower the 
monthly cost as Mr Ss age put a 14 year limit on the mortgage;
I noted that there has been some confusion  as to whether the original mortgage was 
part repayment and part interest only or wholly interest only.  But Santander had 
confirmed - and I accepted - that it was always an interest only mortgage;
As our investigator had explained,  at the time the business  was required to ensure  
that Mr S and Miss S had a plan to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. And I 
was provisionally  satisfied that it did this. It wasnt required to make alternative  
suggestions, or to monitor that plan;
Miss S and Mr S changed products in 2006, 2012, 2014  and 2017. I appreciated that 
Mr S says that the terms of the products  they were offered with Santander from 2012 
onwards were worse  than the terms of the original  mortgage  product. And I 
appreciated that the original mortgage  product allowed flexible overpayments.  But Id 
not seen any evidence to suggest that Miss S and Mr S took advantage of that 
flexibility. So my provisional view was that I was not persuaded  that they had lost out. 
And, in any event, Im persuaded that they chose to change products in order  to 
obtain a more advantageous  fixed rate;
The product  changes in 2006,  2012 and 2014 were on a non-advised basis.  And, as 
Miss S and Mr S were changing product rather than taking out a new mortgage, and 
as their monthly payments didnt increase, the business wasnt required to 
Ref: DRN61941083investigate their repayment vehicle. So my provisional view was that the business  did 
not do anything  wrong.
From  2013, the Financial Conduct Authority has required  lenders to communicate 
frequently about the need to repay  a mortgage  at the end of the term. I was satisfied 
from the correspondence that Id seen that Santander did do that, both in the offer 
letter issued in 2014 and in the annual statements. Id also seen a letter  Santander 
sent them in December 2016 asking  them  to confirm the details of their plans to 
repay.
The product  change in 2017  was on an advised  basis. Again, the purpose of the 
change seems to have been  to obtain a lower fixed rate. So my provisional view was 
that I was not persuaded that Santander  did anything wrong in recommending  that 
Miss S and Mr S change product at that time.
I could also see that Santander asked again  at the time of the product change in 
2017 about Miss S and Mr Ss repayment  vehicle.  And I saw that Miss S and Mr S 
signed a declaration to say that they intended to sell the property at the end of the 
term. So I was provisionally satisfied that Santander did make the necessary 
enquiries into their plans.
Miss S and Mr S appear to have  subsequently  changed their minds  and now wish 
Santander to grant  Miss S a new 20 year mortgage on a repayment basis.
It was reasonable  for Santander  to expect the loan to be repaid at the end of the 
term. But where there isnt a repayment vehicle in place - as in this case  - the FCA 
has made it clear that the lender should  give fair and reasonable consideration to any 
requests made by the borrower  to help them.
I appreciate that Miss S says that she has made numerous requests for a mortgage 
extension. But Santander has explained  that in order to consider the request Miss S 
and Mr S need to speak to Santanders  specialist interest only maturity  team.  I can 
see from the information Santander  has supplied  that Miss S did speak to this team 
on 1 October 2018, and that she was advised  to get independent  financial advice. If 
she hasnt already done so I strongly suggest that Miss S should now re-engage  with 
this team  in order to find a way forward. Santander should  give fair consideration to 
any proposals that Miss S and Mr S might make and should treat them  in accordance 
with the regulators  latest guidance  in light of the current coronavirus pandemic.
Finally, I noted that Mr S has asked this service  to obtain a statement from Santander 
showing the amount  now outstanding on the account. However, as the account is 
interest only the amount outstanding will not have  changed. I suggest  that Mr S and 
Miss S direct  any other queries to Santander.
Miss S and Mr S do not agree with my provisional  decision for the reasons they have 
previously given. They say in particular:
They have no criticism of the original lender or the mortgage sold to them  in 2004, 
but only of Santander  once it took over the mortgage;
They were able to make flexible overpayments to the original lender;
The new mortgages  they took out in 2012, 2014  and 2017  were mis-sold as 
Santander didnt  carry out proper checks on their changes  in circumstance;
Their plan was always to repay the mortgage by taking  out a new Santander 
repayment mortgage in 2018, and Santander employees were told this on numerous 
occasions;
They have always paid the monthly  mortgage  interest repayments,  and do not 
understand why Santander will not give them a new mortgage.
Ref: DRN61941084my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  what Miss S and Mr S have to say in response to my provisional  
view. Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded to change my view. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, the product changes  in 2012  and 2014  took effect on a non-advised 
basis, and Santander  wasnt  required  to investigate their repayment vehicle. And, while  the 
product change in 2017  was advised Im not persuaded  that Santander did anything  wrong  
for the reasons Ive previously given. Further, although Miss S and Mr S say that their plan 
was always to repay the mortgage by taking  out a new Santander repayment mortgage in 
2018 I see that they signed a declaration at the time of the 2017 product change  to say that 
they intended to sell the property at the end of the term.
I appreciate that Miss S and Mr S have always paid the monthly mortgage interest 
repayments. But that does not of itself mean that it would be reasonable for me to require 
Santander to extend the term of the mortgage.  As I explained in my provisional decision 
Miss S and Mr S now need to re-engage  with Santanders specialist interest  only maturity 
team to find a way forward.
As I havent  been  persuaded  to change my provisional decision  I confirm it here. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6194108