K821x#15complaint
Miss J has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) failed  to repair  her car 
properly following an accident  and caused more damage  to it ensuring it required a new 
engine, which it then refused to provide  under her motor policy.
background
Miss J was involved  in an accident,  which happened just as she drove away  from her home 
on 20 January 2019  and involved  a neighbour. So she made  a claim to RSA. 
She contacted RSA in March 2019  as she felt the repairs were  taking  too long. RSA said the 
repairs were done  but when  the garage  was doing  the final checks,  the car wouldnt run. So 
the engine needed to be stripped down to determine  whether  this was accident  related. 
Then RSA said that the timing chain snapped, and the car needed a new engine. It didnt 
think this happened  in the accident  because Miss J was able to drive  her car back to her 
house. RSA consulted an engineer who then said the timing chain stretched and slipped a 
tooth and this wouldnt have been  caused  in the accident as it would be caused by wear  and 
tear. Further  the car would have been incapable of been  driven if it had happened in the 
accident. It believed  though it had caused  delays, so it paid Miss J £25 compensation.
As Miss J remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator  ultimately  
didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
Miss J disagreed and so her complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July and I said the following:
Miss Js evidence is clear from the outset.  She has consistently said that when she 
drove her car the few yards back to her home after the accident, it wasnt  driving  
right. She said she told that to RSAs recovery driver when he was taking her car 
away to be repaired.  
Its clear initially  the repairers  didnt  consider  this, as it only found out in the final 
checks that the car wouldnt run. I dont consider its reasonable consequently, that 
Miss Js information about the fact that car wasnt running properly immediately after 
the accident was not appropriately investigated  and reported on. And indeed  before 
the repairers tried to start running the car and before RSA told Miss J the repairs 
were complete. I consider it had failed to note the car wasnt  running properly 
immediately after the accident and did nothing to investigate or repair that. I consider  
consequently its most  likely this has to be accident  related damage.
I dont doubt RSAs eventual evidence that the timing chain slipped a tooth, as in it 
didnt snap as it initially said. But the question, which RSA has failed  to answer  in my 
view, was whether  this took place because  of the accident. Clearly as Miss J has 
consistently said her car wasnt running properly immediately after the accident, its 
therefore possible it occurred in the accident,  but RSAs repairers  never checked this 
at the time. Miss Js account  is also clear  that her car was running fine before the 
accident and had recently passed its MOT. 
Ref: DRN65206652RSA is adamant  Miss Js car wouldnt have been able to have been driven after the 
accident on the basis the timing chain slipped a tooth. However it appears its failed 
to appreciate that Miss J only drove her car a few yards back  to her home after the 
accident occurred  and its failed to acknowledge her account that the car wasnt  
driving properly  then. Miss J said that the manufacturers main dealer confirmed that 
it could have been possible for Miss Js to have travelled  such a short distance with 
this problem. RSA hasnt commented on that at all, its merely maintained it wouldnt 
have been possible  whilst  appearing not to take on board the very short  journey as in 
mere yards for Miss J to drive her car back to her home.
It appears to me that its unreasonable for RSA to have dismissed  Miss Js reporting  
of this issue and its failure  to investigate it and repair it as part of the damage caused  
in the accident. Its also unreasonable  that it failed to look at this issue during the 
repairs, only noting it after its repairers  had intervened (possibly further damaging it 
in the process)  in trying to start the car but then deciding it wasnt  accident  damage 
despite Miss Js reporting of the issue at the time car was been taken away to be 
repaired. 
Its not reasonable in my view to dismiss what the policyholder believes went wrong 
in the accident and simply fail to investigate it. And its not reasonable in my view to 
then decide it wasnt accident related damage in any event. If the timing chain had 
slipped its tooth as RSA maintains  due to wear and tear and it wasnt  capable  of 
being driven then Miss J would not have  been  involved in the accident at all, as she 
would not have been able to drive out her driveway in the first place.
So I consider its been  too convenient  for RSA to maintain  this damage to the engine  
of Miss Js car must have been  wear and tear. Theres no evidence  it noted the 
repairs had to include an investigation into why Miss Js car suddenly ran so badly 
immediately after the accident. So I think RSA should now repair  Miss Js car if its 
still possible  to do so, and if its economical  to do so. If this is the case,  Miss J has 
suffered a significant  level of loss of use of her car. She has explained given her 
medical conditions  and the fact she had to get her children to different schools, plus 
go to work  and do shopping  etc., this took an exceptional toll on her and her family.  
Therefore, I consider  it should pay her loss of use at £10 per day from the date it took 
back her hire car, to the date it pays her. Unless Miss J has evidence  of travel costs  
in excess of this like taxi fares  etc., which if that is the case, I consider RSA should 
pay those costs in addition.
If its not possible and/or economical to repair Miss Js car now, it should  pay Miss J 
the market value of her car in accordance  with the remaining terms and conditions of 
her policy,  adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date of her claim to the 
date it pays her. 
Miss J was buying her car under a loan agreement  so she couldnt raise the funds to 
buy a new car. RSA needs to consider the interest amounts Miss J was paying  under 
this. If it can repair her car, I consider it should pay the interest charges Miss J has 
paid from the time of her claim to date it repairs it. If it is paying Miss J the market 
value of her car plus the 8% interest, it should  ensure  Miss J has no shortfall bearing 
in mind its very possible her interest rate on her loan agreement  was far higher than 
the 8% I intend to award on the market value sum.
Ref: DRN65206653Miss J has detailed the extent of her distress and upset very clearly.  She had no 
other car to use, she has medical  issues, which  makes walking and using public 
transport difficult, and she wasnt simply able to afford  to buy a new car. Furthermore, 
she said from the outset  that her car wasnt running  properly  for those few yards she 
drove it home immediately after the accident. Taking  everything into account,  I 
consider RSA should also pay Miss J the sum of £500 compensation. 
Miss J accepted my provisional decision and explained she had eventually got a new engine 
for her car at a cost of £4,452.00 by October  2019.  She also provided evidence of her car 
loan agreement since she took the loan out in May 2017 and bought her car in June 2017. 
RSA didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said Miss Js type of car was known to have 
issues with the timing chain and therefore it wasnt part of the accident. It also said Miss J 
didnt tell it about how the car was running  immediately after the accident and provided 
copies of three call recordings.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened very carefully to the three  telephone recordings  RSA have now provided.  
The first was between  its adviser and Miss J when she was reporting  the accident  on 21 
January 2019.  When Miss J was describing  what damage she thought  happened in the 
accident, she mentioned she felt the axle had been  damaged and was about to describe why 
but the adviser accidently cut in and talked over her. Thereafter Miss J didnt get to say why 
she thought the axle had been damaged. However she said she did report  the fact her car 
wasnt running properly  to the recovery driver who took her car away  and Ive no reason  to 
disbelieve her since this has been  her evidence  all along. RSA said the following in its 
response to my provisional  decision: 
In addition I attach  the first notification call with the insured where there  is no such  
mention of any noise  relating to the engine following the accident,  any damage that 
the insured wished to be assessed in the first instance should be highlighted here.  
You state  the insured  told the recovery driver, but they are just a recovery  driver  and 
have nothing to do with the repairs they just collect and deliver vehicles, so I am 
unable to see how we have failed to investigate  something in the first instance that 
we were never aware of.
However in the call, it was clear to me that Miss J wanted to say more about  where  and what  
she thought was damaged. The adviser  also didnt say in the call that only what  Miss J said 
was damaged would only be looked at either. I dont consider it reasonable that following the 
shock of an accident  where it was clear in this call that Miss J was concerned  about  whether 
daughter had suffered injuries  in the accident,  that the policyholder first knows  precisely 
what has been damaged or more significantly has any duty under the policy terms to know 
what precisely has been damaged. Most  policyholders  arent motor engineers or mechanics. 
Therefore the full extent of any damage which happened in an accident is clearly the 
responsibility of the repairing garage  to find, not the policyholder. Miss J said she mentioned  
that her car wasnt running properly to the recovery driver which  is a reasonable thing  to do 
at the time someone is taking your car away to be repaired. I dont  consider  it was 
Ref: DRN65206654unreasonable for Miss J to believe the recovery driver would pass on what  she said given he 
was an ostensible representative of RSAs approved repairer and therefore of RSA. 
So I remain  of the view on balance  that Miss J told RSA or its representatives the car wasnt 
running properly  immediately after the accident,  notwithstanding theres no duty on the 
policyholder to know precisely what has been  damaged in an accident.
The other two call recordings are between RSAs engineer and what  appears to be two 
different people in the manufacturers main  dealers possibly, but that hasnt  been  clarified.  
However in the first call the other party  wasnt aware the engine had been stripped down 
whereas the person in the call a day later was aware.  These are dated  28 and 29 March 
2019 respectively.  In the first one on 28 March, both parties to the call agree that the 
problem appeared to happen on site, as in at the approved repairers. Both were concerned 
about the fact it happened when the car was in RSAs  approved  repairers care.  It seemed  
they thought it could  have  happened  due to the engine being turned backwards or an un-
sequenced gear shift.  The dealer (or other party to the call) initially  expressed quite a level of 
surprise it had happened at all. There was much  talk of it being  in RSAs care and how harsh 
it was on Miss J. Its also clear both parties werent sure how it happened and were merely 
discussing the possibilities.
The last call on 29 March was definitely between RSAs engineer and the manufacturers 
main dealer.  Most of it concerned the delay  in paying the main dealer for the work they had 
done on Miss Js car in stripping  it down and putting  it back  together.  Again there was some  
discussion as to what caused this problem with Miss Js car. It was here it was decided it 
was either  a stretched chain or faulty  tensioner. There  was supposedly  a third possibility but 
that actually wasnt  identified. The main dealer wasnt that interested  as she simply wanted 
her invoice paid.  However it was her who said the model of Miss Js car did have this issue. 
They together concluded it was an unfortunate coincidence for Miss J.
RSA has now produced evidence from another engineer  who has said the following:
As requested, I have  reviewed all the images and information regarding  the incident  
on 20 January 2019  involving [reg number] and the sequence of events leading up to 
the engine failure.  We are advised  that the PH was involved  in a very low speed 
incident on in which her vehicle sustained damage  to the N/SF wing and a scrape 
down the N/S doors and rear quarter  panel. We are also advised that after the 
incident the PH drove her vehicle home.
This vehicle  is fitted with a 1.2 TFSI engine  which  is also fitted in to various other 
[makes and models similar to Miss Js car] and uses an engine  code CBZA.
This particular model engine (CBZA) has a well-known and well documented history 
of premature engine  failures due to stretched timing  chains and timing chain 
tensioner failures that can happen on a relatively  small mileage   between 40,000-
60,000 miles (60,000-100,000 km). The CBZA engine are renown for having a rattle  
from the timing chain and this is considered  normal with many dealer groups advising 
customers that this is standard for this model  engine. As such the engines  were very 
heavily revised from mid-2012, this included larger oil galleries, increased oil 
capacities, better lubrication and finally modified camshaft chain and tensioner 
design.
I have reviewed all the documentation and images  and can find no correlation 
between the incident and the timing chain/tensioner  which has caused the eventual 
failure of the engine.  The damage visible to the car would not be related
Ref: DRN65206655in any way to a timing  chain/tensioner failure and could not affect  the engine  or its 
operation both with the proximity  or limited extent  of the damage. This is confirmed 
by the fact that the incident date was on the 20 January and the [main]
dealer fault memory entries  taken 27 March 2019 record  the failure by way of a loss 
of correlation between  the "Crankshaft position-Camshaft position" happening  on 
25/01/19 at 15:17 which will have been recorded by the vehicle ECU and is 
irrefutable.
CONCLUSION.
We would  conclude with the evidence at hand  that the engine has failed due to timing 
chain/tensioner failure caused by general  wear and tear and that this issue is well 
documented failure recorded throughout the internet and official  sources. This fact is 
supported by the dealer  documentation and therefore we must consider this 
coincidental under  the circumstances.
Neither of these calls above  of 28 and 29 March mention that the ECU showed it occurred 
on 21 January, which  I consider is very significant. In those  calls theres  great concern over 
the fact that it happened when the car was in the care of the repairing garage only.
So in the call recordings RSA is saying the chain or tensioner faulted whilst  in the care of its 
approved repairers  but now its saying that it showed on the ECU that it happened the day 
after the accident, when the car wasnt drivable, Miss J having driven her car back  home  
immediately after the accident. This again goes towards the argument  this happened in the 
accident in my view,  given  Miss J has always said her car was running badly immediately 
after the accident. Her account of accident  and the fact her daughter suffered personal 
injuries, doesnt make it as light an impact as RSA now suggests.  And the initial RSA adviser 
noted it wasnt driveable in the first call. 
So on balance, since this only showed up as fault on the cars ECU whilst  in the repairing 
garage (despite  Miss J mentioning it was running  poorly to the recovery  driver) I remain  of 
the view that Miss Js evidence that her car was running poorly  immediately after the 
accident is crucial. That means I consider its not merely a coincidental matter for which  RSA 
has no responsibility in repairing,  I dont consider it failed  as a matter  of wear of tear given 
the intervening  factor  of the accident. Its clear Miss J car had recently passed its MOT just 
before the accident and obviously no running issues were  discovered then and I consider 
that important too. 
So taking all of the circumstances  and evidence together carefully, I consider on balance, 
this was more  likely to be accident damage  given the particular circumstances of this 
complaint. So whether  this the fact that this make, and model  of car had such issues with the 
chain is almost inconsequential, since the evidence is that it was driving  poorly immediately 
after the accident.  
Given the extensive number of different ideas  produced by RSA of the varying reasons why 
this happened  and given its subsequent difficulties in working out what  happened,  along  with 
the many  scenarios it has suggested over time, suggests to me that RSA was simply trying  
too hard to make  this Miss Js responsibility.  However give Miss Js evidence that her car 
was running so poorly immediately after the accident, I remain  of the view, this is for RSA to 
deal with and on the balance of probabilities  its far more likely  be related to the accident. 
Therefore I consider  that this complaint  should  be upheld  on a fair and reasonable basis  
given the very particular  circumstances  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65206656Miss J managed to get a new engine for her car at the cost of £4,452.00 to include various 
car pick up fees etc. She has documented her payments for this by her bank and card 
statements plus an invoice from the engine fitters,  copies of which  will be sent separately to 
RSA. I consider RSA should refund this amount plus interest at 8% simple  per year from the 
date Miss J paid these costs to the date of its refund.
It remains that Miss J suffered a loss of use from the date RSA took back her hire car to the 
date she finally got it repaired  which was by virtue of the fitters  invoice  17 October 2019. 
Therefore I consider  RSA should pay her loss of use of £10 per day for that time period.
As Miss J was able to repair her car, that meant her loan payments to buy her car continued. 
Miss J has shown us she paid £50 per week with an interest  rate of 9.9%. Therefore RSA 
should refund Miss J the interest  rate she had to pay from the date of her claim RSA to the 
date Miss J had her car repaired.
It remains this matter  caused Miss J considerable distress and upset.  So I consider RSA 
should pay Miss J the sum of £500 compensation.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to do the following:
Refund Miss J the repair costs  of £4,452.00 adding  interest  of 8% simple per year 
from the date Miss J paid for these repairs to the date of its refund.
As Miss J repaired her car, it should refund the interest Miss J paid on her loan 
agreement for her car from the date of the claim to the date of the successful repair  
of Miss Js car. 
If income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should  
be provided to Miss J for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Miss J £10 per day loss of use from the date it took back her hire car to the date 
it pays her. 
It should pay Miss J the sum of £500 compensation for the considerable distress and 
upset she has endured.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6520665