K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans that were 
unaffordable. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in May 
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in part. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has confirmed  that he accepts the provisional decision.
Mr Lender has also confirmed it accepts  the findings  in my provisional decision. However, 
its pointed out that, because  Mr M hasnt repaid loan five, its applied all of the payments its 
received from Mr M in reduction of the capital amount thatd been lent. As such, theres no 
interest or charges to be refunded. 
Against the original  loan of £650, Mr M has paid a total of £347.53 back to Mr Lender. 
Mr Lender has confirmed  that, having  applied this sum in reduction of the original loan 
principal, theres a balance of £302.47  owing.
Whilst I found that loan five was wrongly  approved by Mr Lender,  Mr M has had the benefit 
of the £650 it is quite  right that he should pay this back. Mr Lender  has offered to discuss  
with Mr M the establishment of an affordable repayment plan to achieve this.
putting things right
I dont think that Mr Lender was right to provide loan five. To put things right it should:
agree  an affordable  repayment plan with Mr M in respect  of the remaining capital 
balance of £302.47 outstanding on loan five;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loan five. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct PDL Finance Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Ref: DRN69965132Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69965133EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Between 2017  and 2018 Mr M took out five instalment  loans  from Mr Lender as follows:
Loan No Amount Date of loan Date  repaid
1 £400 26.6.17 4.7.17
2 £500 9.3.18 20.3.18
3 £650 21.3.18 10.4.18
4 £500 20.5.18 12.7.18
5 £650 5.8.18 Outstanding
Each of the loans was originally scheduled for repayment over six months. With the exception  of loan 
five, which remains outstanding, all the loans  were repaid earlier than had been scheduled. 
Mr M feels that Mr Lender didnt  carry our adequate checks before  lending to him. He says that, if it 
had, it wouldve seen that a considerable proportion  of his net pay was committed to repaying other 
loans, he had a significant  number of other payday loans at the same time as he was borrowing from 
Mr Lender and was in arrears with other credit cards,  store cards and hire purchase agreements.
Mr Lender contends that it did carry out appropriate checks before lending and was satisfied that 
there were no issues of concern and that the loans were affordable  to Mr M.
Our adjudicator was of the opinion that Mr Lender had done nothing wrong in providing  loans one to 
three, but that it shouldve done better checks before loans four and five. If it had done so, he felt that 
it wouldve concluded that these two loans werent  affordable. Accordingly,  he proposed that Mr 
Lender should  pay some  compensation to Mr M.
Mr Lender didnt agree. It pointed  out that itd asked supplementary  questions  of Mr M before 
agreeing to loans four and five and that, based upon his answers, it didnt see any reason not to lend 
to him.
Because Mr Lender  doesnt  agree with our adjudicators  opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Mr Lender was required  to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether  Mr M could 
afford to pay back the loans before  it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount Mr M was borrowing  and his lending  history, but there was no set list of checks 
that Mr Lender had to do.
The loans are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), whose regulations for lenders are 
set out in its consumer credit  sourcebook (generally referred to as CONC). These regulations  - in 
CONC 5.3.1(2)  - require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers ability to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.   CONC 5.3.1(7)  
defines sustainable as being able to make repayments without undue difficulty.  And explains that this 
means borrowers should be able to make their repayments on time and out of their income and 
savings without  having  to borrow to meet  these  repayments. 
Ref: DRN69965134So, the fact that Mr M managed to repay the loans  in full and before the scheduled repayment dates, 
doesnt necessarily mean the loans  were affordable for him and that he managed to repay them  in a 
sustainable manner. In other words I cant assume that because Mr M managed to repay his loans 
(with the exception of loan five), that he was able to do so out of his normal means without having  to 
borrow further.
Mr Lender has shown  that, before it lent to Mr M, it asked  him for details of his monthly income and 
expenditure to assess the level of disposable income available to service its loans. It also carried out 
credit checks,  and whilst I havent seen  the full results of these, Mr Lender says they showed  that 
Mr M didnt have any defaults or delinquent  debts registered, nor had he been subject to any 
insolvency proceedings. Mr Lender considered Mr Ms credit standing  to be average.
loans one to three
Mr M declared his net income to be between  £1,350 and £1,400  per month.  Against this he said he 
had monthly  expenses  which left him with disposable income of £400 to £450 per month.  The monthly 
repayments to Mr Lender were between £152 and £257 per month.  There was a gap of over eight 
months between loan one being repaid and Mr Ms application for loan two.
Given the results  of the checks it had carried out, I consider it wouldve  appeared to Mr Lender that 
these loans were affordable to Mr M. And, at this early stage in the borrowing relationship  with Mr M, I 
think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely upon the information that hed provided  to it.
I think  that Mr Lenders  checks  were  adequate and dont believe it was wrong  to provide these loans 
to Mr M.
loan four
There was a gap of over five weeks between repayment of loan three and the application for loan 
four. However, I think that by this stage Mr Lender ought to have recognised the pattern of borrowing  
that had emerged whereby Mr M had repaid each of the prior three loans much earlier than required 
under the loan agreements. Each of the loans  was made available for repayment over a six month 
term, but Mr M repaid  loan one after only eight  days, loan two after 11 days  and loan three after 20 
days.
Given Mr M had previously  declared his monthly disposable  income to be no more  than £450,  I think  
that Mr Lender shouldve  been questioning how he was managing to repay  its previous loans earlier 
than required. And, in that context, I share our adjudicators view that Mr Lender shouldve asked 
Mr M for details of any other short term loans he may have.
In its response to our adjudicators opinion  Mr Lender has told us that, before it agreed to loan four, it 
did ask some additional questions of Mr M. It asked him how many outstanding  loans  he had - and 
Mr M told it that he had two other loans and hadnt missed any payments. Mr M also stated that he 
was up to date with all his bills. Mr Lender also asked  Mr M whether  he considered himself to be 
dependent upon short term loans and Mr M advised that he was not. Mr Lender has since shown us 
that when Mr M was asked for details  of his monthly expenditure he said that he owed only £20 in 
respect of other  loans, including short term loans.
I can see from Mr Ms bank statements that, at the time he applied for loan four, he had a significant  
level of other short term loans outstanding, and had substantial other commitments (such as rent, 
council tax and regular loans).  But, at this stage, I think it remained reasonable for Mr Lender to rely 
upon the information that Mr M was providing to it. And so I dont think  theres any reason  to have 
expected Mr Lender to have  been aware  that Mr Ms financial circumstances were  actually worse than 
he was telling  it.
I think  that the additional  checks  Mr Lender has now shown that it undertook before it approved  loan 
four were proportionate  and so I dont think that it was wrong to provide this loan.
Ref: DRN69965135loan five
By the time Mr M applied for loan five I think that Mr Lender  shouldve been questioning whether the 
information it was being given by Mr M was reliable.  Its shown us that, because  this was Mr Ms 
fourth loan in 12 months, it did contact Mr M to remind  him that this type of loan wasnt appropriate for 
sustained borrowing  over long periods of time. And it asked him supplementary questions  about  the 
state of his finances,  including reliance upon  short term loans. 
But, in these circumstances,  Id have expected Mr Lender to go further than this and to carry  out a 
comprehensive and independent check on Mr Ms financial situation.  There are a number  of ways  in 
which this could be done, such as asking for copies of his payslips and his bills, or asking to see his 
bank statements. I cant see that Mr Lender did so and, as such, I dont think that its checks went far 
enough.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements from the time and can see that his income was £1,551  which is 
in line with what was declared to Mr Lender. Mr M told Mr Lender that his monthly  expenditure  was 
£937, leaving  him with monthly disposable income of £628 from which to repay its loan at £243.  
However, from his bank  statements, I can see regular  commitments amounting  to over £1,700 for 
rent, regular loans and council  tax alone   i.e., without taking into account other normal living 
expenses and a variety  of other short  term loans.
I think  that, if Mr Lender had carried out the better checks that I consider to be proportionate it 
wouldve seen that this loan wasnt affordable. I dont, therefore, think it was right to give this loan.
Having considered  all the evidence  provided to me, I am currently inclined to partially uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Ref: DRN6996513