K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) havent changed 
the name on her credit card account.
background 
Miss W wanted  to change the name  on her credit card account  from her married name to her 
maiden name following  her divorce. M&S told her they needed  to see certain documents in 
order to do this. These included the Decree  Absolute confirming her divorce.
Miss W says she provided all the necessary documents to M&S, but the account is still in her 
married name. M&S say they cant accept  the Decree Absolute which  Miss W provided as 
proof of the name change. This is because  they say its an ordinary photocopy and what  
they need is a certified copy. 
Miss W is unhappy  about this and also the fact that M&S had taken payment of the full 
outstanding balance on her credit  card when she had said she wanted  to make a part 
payment. M&S initially made a goodwill gesture of £25. Since the complaint has been  with 
this service, they have  increased their offer of compensation to £100 in total (i.e. an 
additional £75).
Ms W was minded to accept M&Ss  offer. She asked for a cheque to be sent to her in her 
maiden name of Miss W. She also asked  if her boss or mortgage broker  could certify  the 
Decree Absolute as she didnt know any professionals from M&Ss list of people  who could 
certify copies. M&S werent able to fulfil these requests and Miss W didnt feel she was being 
treated fairly. She decided  not to accept the offer and asked  for the case reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for M&S  as a business to determine what their procedures are for dealing with a change 
of name  request. This includes  the decision as to what  information  they will accept as proof 
of a change of name. They have a clear policy on this, which  confirms  that one of the 
documents needed to change an account name where there has been  a divorce is a certified 
copy of the Decree  Absolute. So they are following their policy  in Miss Ws case  and I think  
their request  for a certified copy of the Decree Absolute  is fair. 
The problem here seems to be the way the policy has been  implemented. There has been 
some confusion, firstly over the information given to Miss W at the outset and secondly over 
whether the document  she provided was a copy or an original.
M&S have  acknowledged that they should have told Miss W when she first requested the 
name change that she would  need  to provide certified copies. They  say they should also 
have given her a list at the outset of the professionals who would be able to certify  
documents for her. As they have acknowledged  that they could have done more on this 
point, I wont go over the background to it here. Ill focus instead on what  happened once 
Miss W had provided her documents to M&S.
Ref: DRN66317552M&S say that the Decree Absolute which Miss W sent to them was a photocopy  but not a 
certified copy. But Miss W says she sent the original  Decree  Absolute to M&S. I have 
listened to the call Miss W made to M&S in June 2018 about this. I think its quite clear that 
Miss W is saying she sent the original  Decree Absolute to M&S. She says that, if all they 
have on their file now is a photocopy, thats  because its the copy they made before returning 
the original to her. 
She explains that the Decree Absolute is not a glossy certificate but just a simple  A4 piece of 
paper. She obviously realised that M&S didnt recognise what  she sent them as being  an 
original document.  But the two agents she spoke to on the phone  didnt seem to grasp this 
point which  made  it all the more frustrating for Miss W. Having listened to the call and 
considered all the information on this point, I find it likely that Miss W did send the original 
Decree Absolute to M&S. And she says that other organisations have accepted  the same 
document she provided to M&S.
The problem here is that M&Ss policy asks for a certified copy  of the original document, not 
the original itself. And even if M&S had been willing to accept the original in Miss Ws case, 
unfortunately what seems  to have happened  is that they have returned that to her, simply 
keeping an ordinary photocopy on their file without  carrying out any authentication  process. I 
can understand Miss Ws point of view that, as M&S had the original, its not her fault if they 
didnt record that fact on their system before returning it to her. 
But I can also understand M&Ss position that they still need  to see a certified copy  of the 
Decree Absolute. This is what their policy requires and, even if they were willing to accept 
the original as an exception in Miss Ws case,  they dont have any record of having  seen it. 
All they have  on their files now, several  months on, is a photocopy. 
Its right that M&S should take the security of their customers accounts  very seriously. So 
they need to be strict  about following their procedures. Whilst I realise  its very frustrating  for 
Miss W in the circumstances here, I think its reasonable  that M&S  are still asking to see a 
certified copy of the Decree Absolute before they can change their records. But I also think  
its fair that they should pay compensation to Miss W for the inconvenience and frustration 
she has experienced. 
I agree  with our adjudicator that £100  is a fair amount of compensation to reflect  whats  
happened here. Miss W was willing to accept that amount  initially.  But she changed her mind 
when our adjudicator  told her that M&S: (a) couldnt make the cheque payable  to her using 
her maiden  name, and (b) couldnt  accept  a copy document  certified by her boss. I dont  
think M&S are being unreasonable and Ill explain why.
They have said that if they are going to issue a cheque it will need  to be in the same name 
as Miss Ws account with them, which is still her married name at the moment. But they have 
offered a solution  which is that they could do a BACS transfer to her bank account.  I think  
thats a fair approach and would mean  that Miss W could receive the money without  delay.
Regarding the certification of copy documents, as I explained above, its for M&S  as a 
business to decide on their policies and procedures. They have  a policy  in place regarding 
certified copies and they arent deviating from it here. They have  explained what  credentials 
the mortgage broker would need  to have in order for them to accept a certificate from 
him/her. That seems reasonable, and they have told Miss W where she can find this 
information. 
Ref: DRN66317553If Miss W cant use her mortgage broker to certify the documents,  M&S have provided  a list 
of professionals who they will accept certificates  from. That list is in line with what most 
organisations would accept. Miss W has queried how any of those people  would be able to 
certify the documents  as they dont know her and didnt know  her when she was married. 
But its not necessary  for someone certifying  a copy to know  someone personally.  All they 
are being  asked to do is make a copy of an original document and then write on the copy  to 
confirm that it is a true copy of the original which they have seen. That way the customer  
keeps the original but the bank is satisfied that the copy they have is identical to the original. 
Miss W was concerned about  having to pay for a certified copy  and also the inconvenience 
of it. M&S have said she could use a local pharmacist,  optician or GP which would hopefully 
minimise the inconvenience. And they also said theyre happy  to reimburse Miss W for any 
costs she incurs in getting the certified  copies.   I think thats  a fair approach and means that 
Miss W wont be out of pocket.
Ive also considered the issue of the full balance being taken by M&S when Miss W had said 
she only wanted to make a part payment on to her credit  card.  Miss W queried  it with the 
agent on the phone as the payment was being  put through. When the agent apologised and 
explained she had already taken  the full amount, Miss W said that was fine. As she didnt 
pursue it at the time or ask the agent to do anything  about it, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask M&S to do anything  about  this now.
So I think £100 is a fair amount to reflect the inconvenience and frustration Miss W has been 
caused to date. I wont be asking M&S to pay more compensation because I think  the 
solutions they have proposed are reasonable. And its now been made clear to Miss W what 
she needs to do for the name  change  to be processed by M&S.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. Marks and Spencer Financial Services  Plc 
should:
Pay compensation of £100 to Miss W; and
If provided with a relevant receipt,  reimburse  Miss W for the reasonable costs of 
obtaining certified copies of the documents needed to change the name on her 
account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6631755