K821x#15complaint
G, a firm, complains  on behalf of Mr and Mrs M that Stackhouse Poland Limited overcharged 
them for its commission, failed to advise them properly, failed adequately to analyse  the 
market and was responsible for them not having a remedy for being over-insured.  This is for 
their home insurance policy from 2003 to 2017.  The business has changed hands and 
changed names over the years. But Stackhouse has advised us that it has taken over 
responsibility for all actions in respect  of Mr and Mrs Ms policy,  so, except where  necessary 
to distinguish it, Ill be using that name throughout this decision. This includes any actions by 
another associated  broker,  L, as its agent.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out their policy  through  Stackhouse in 2003. Mr M was a former equity 
partner of the firm which  acquired Stackhouses predecessor firm, although he retired  before 
that takeover.  It was a policy put with a specialist insurer for high net worth individuals.  The 
policy was renewed  over the years and renewal invitations sent to Mr and Mrs M each  year 
with a recommendation that they continue to insure  with the same insurer (H). Mr M queried 
the premium from time to time but continued  to allow the policy  to renew. In 2015 Mr M again 
queried the premium,  particularly as he felt there might be grounds to reduce it. H agreed to 
carry out an updated valuation for the property.  It was found that the building was over-
insured. Stackhouse queried this with H and achieved a one- off premium  reduction for 
2016, and the premium  was lower in 2017  against the 2014 price.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs M received a statement, they say for the first time, setting out the 
commission Stackhouse  received for the policy. The policy had been renewed in April,  but 
Mr and Mrs M were  allowed to cancel it in May as they had taken out insurance elsewhere. 
They requested the details of all the commission received over the years.  Mr and Mrs M 
made complaints that they hadnt  been told commission would be charged and that they 
werent aware of the very high level of commission (which ranged  from 24% to 27.8%). They  
also said that Stackhouse  hadnt  carried out a fair analysis of the market  and as a 
consequence they had been charged  too high a level of premium  over the years.  They 
further said, in respect of the 2015  revaluation  that they hadnt been told why the property 
had been revalued so much lower, as H had carried out the 2003 valuation.
In response, Stackhouse advised  that it had assessed Mr and Mrs Ms policy needs each 
year and its staff with its knowledge  of comparable products and rates available  in the 
market felt that the policy offered by H was the most suitable.  It said it had no obligation  at 
any time to disclose its commission, although  was prepared to do so when asked. It also 
said it didnt have to tell Mr and Mrs M that it had earned commission until 2015, but had 
done so thereafter. With regard  to the over-insurance,  H had explained to it that this was a 
unique circumstance,  and it accepted  that. It had agreed a premium refund for that year and 
agreed a re-rating  of the property value  with Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied. They made  a complaint to this service, seeking  a refund of 
all or part of the commission for the years the policy was on risk, and further  refunds of part 
of the premiums based on Stackhouses  failure  to carry out a fair analysis of the market  and 
its failure to notify  Mr and Mrs M of the reasons for the over-insurance. They thought that 
Stackhouse should  have  told them of Hs explanation which they considered  unacceptable,  
and that they had been prevented from raising a complaint directly  with H.
Ref: DRN69734402I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, with regard  to the overinsurance this was a 
matter to take up with the insurer. Nevertheless I said that Stackhouse should have passed 
on the details  of its discussions over this to Mr and Mrs M, and that it should pay £100 
compensation for failing  to do this. 
In respect of the commission  I said I didnt think there was evidence that Stackhouse  had 
done a fair analysis of the markets  from 2005  onwards. For the period from 2005  until 2011 I 
proposed that it pay £1,000 plus interest.  From 2012 until 2017  I proposed  that it refund any 
commission above 10% plus interest  for the relevant periods.
Both parties  responded to the provisional  decision. Stackhouse responded as follows:
It maintains that it correctly recommended  the renewal of the policy with the existing 
insurer due to the history of subsidence. 
It regularly reviews  the products it offers, therefore undertaking a fair analysis of the 
market to ensure  they are responsive in terms of wider cover  and settlement of claims. 
With the history of subsidence at the property  any alternative insurer on its panel would 
have required sight of a structural engineers  report, before they would consider 
providing a quotation.  The cost of this report would  have had to be met by Mr and Mrs M.
It maintains that the amount of commission had no bearing on the premium.  The 
premium is determined by insurers, and the percentage  of the premium  retained by 
brokers as commission has no bearing  on the end premium offered to the customer. 
The standard commission rate earned  by Stackhouse on this product (the same product 
as purchased by Mr and Mrs M) is 31%,  Stackhouse  year on year agreed a reduced 
amount with the insurer for Mr and Mrs Ms policy but the end premium was still 
determined by the insurer.
Notwithstanding the above it does agree, on a commercial basis, to settle this matter  by 
way of a payment in line with my provisional  decision. 
G replied on behalf  of Mr and Mrs M solicitor. It drew my attention to my stating that Mr M 
was a former  equity  partner of Stackhouses predecessor firm. It pointed out that Mr M, in 
1996, retired as an equity partner in the firm which, in 1997, acquired  Stackhouse.  As a 
former partner and with a continuing professional association  with that firm, Mr M assumed 
that he was receiving proper advice from its insurance  broking  subsidiary  and paying  
competitive premiums. Other than as a customer,  Mr M has no background in insurance 
broking.
G further said that:
Disclosure by Stackhouse was accidental and not a deliberate decision by it to place its 
cards face upwards  on the table in its dealings with Mr and Mrs M.
The new insurance  cover arranged by NFU was comparable with that arranged  by 
Stackhouse with H and the reason for the price differential was the higher 
brokerage/commission obtained  by Stackhouse.
Following Stackhouses indication that it was prepared to comply with my proposed decision 
we asked G if Mr and Mrs M were prepared to agree this in settlement of the complaint. It 
replied that: 
Stackhouse Poland Limited should first provide its calculation of the amount payable  to 
Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN69734403It and Mr and Mrs M believed that it would also be fair and appropriate for Stackhouse 
Poland to reimburse them with the legal costs  they have incurred, given that its 
disclosure of its commission/brokerage was accidental. .
I advised that I wasnt satisfied that this was an appropriate case  to award legal costs. I said 
that despite the complex way the case was presented the issues  were  straightforward and 
pointed out that costs  arent commonly awarded.  G however considers that it is appropriate  
for the above  reason  and because:
It doesnt agree that the case was presented  in an unduly complex way or that the issues  
were as straightforward as suggested. Had it been so straightforward, it thinks  it unlikely 
that the adjudicator and I would have  reached different decisions.
It considers that I significantly overstates the ability of consumers  to grapple with issues 
such as those to which  this case gave rise, including the relevant FCA rules, duties of 
disclosure by agents and the like.
Stackhouse has said it isnt prepared to pay Mr and Mr Ms legal costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes talking into account the law, 
and all relevant  principles, rules and regulations.  I will cite the rule, regulation or principle 
where I think it is relevant,  but Im not required to set out each one and explain it if I dont 
think it is relevant.
A further  point I made in my provisional decision is that we operate  as an alternative  dispute 
resolution service. Our remit  is to resolve issues informally between the parties to reach a 
fair and reasonable settlement. We dont carry out detailed forensic accounting and if 
Mr and Mrs M require  that kind of investigation  they may think  it more appropriate to take 
legal proceedings.
Mr Ms position
In my provisional decision I said:
I think  it is relevant that Mr M is a former equity partner in Stackhouses  predecessor firm. 
This is because, although he and Mrs M are consumers, he would be expected  to know 
generally about brokers, commission and insurance  premiums. Thats not of course  to 
absolve Stackhouse  of its obligation to advise where necessary.
I accept that Mr M wasnt a partner in the firm before it took over the broker  business. 
Nevertheless he has confirmed he was aware that as his broker  he expected it to charge a 
commission.
non-disclosure of commission
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Stackhouse failed to tell them  the basis upon  which  it was 
advising them, particularly that it was receiving commission. They say that up until 2015 they 
Ref: DRN69734404werent told this at all, and then from the 2016 renewal onwards, only that fees or brokerage  
charges may be payable.  At no time until they were  sent details in 2018 did Stackhouse 
reveal the amount of the commission it was earning on their policy.
I would concur here with the adjudicators view that the requirement, for intermediaries, to 
disclose the nature of the remuneration,  including commission,  only applied from 2015  
onwards (after the 2015 renewal). There was a previous rule (ICOBS 4.3) which  required a 
firm to provide its customer with details  of the amount of any fees other than premium 
monies for an insurance mediation activity. But that rule was later amended to add a 
provision to disclose  whether  the intermediary worked for a fee, or separately, a commission 
of any kind. I dont  think that rule was intended to apply to commission  before 2015.
G has pointed out that the 2016  renewal  terms of business dont set out that commission 
may be payable. The wording is Our remuneration may be paid ... as a brokerage,  which  is 
a percentage  of the insurance  premium paid by you and allowed by the insurer with whom 
the insurance is placed.
My understanding is that brokerage is another term for commission,  and Mr M would  have 
known that. I dont think that Stackhouse  failed  to comply with the insurance rules  about 
disclosing the basis of its remuneration.
But G says that, in light of the very high commission that Stackhouse received (between 
24% and 27.5%), this carried  the possibility that Stackhouse was making  a secret profit  
and was in breach of the following general principles:
Principle 6 A firm must pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat them 
fairly. 
Principle 7 A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Principle 8 A firm must  manage  conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between  a customer and another client.
Gs argument is that there was a conflict of interest  in that Stackhouse was receiving an 
excessive commission for selling the insurance to Mr and Mrs M, so only its interests were 
served by continuing  to recommend that product. But I think  that argument isnt right for the 
following reasons:
The commission rates  Stackhouse received  are well within  business  norms. I dont think  
they can be regarded  as excessive.
The policy itself was with H, which provided insurance to individuals  with high net worth, 
so would be likely to have a higher premium than most standard policies.
Mr and Mrs M were  happy with the insurance provider for a number of years and there is 
no indication that the policy wasnt suitable  for them.
Mr M, as a former  partner of Stackhouses predecessor  firm, would have been aware 
that commission was being charged, and could have asked for details at any time
The policy Mr and Mrs M obtained from 2018 onwards, whilst having  a lower rate of 
commission still has a premium consistent with a high net worth  policyholder.
There was a limited availability of policies in the earlier years because of a subsidence 
claim in 2003.
Ref: DRN69734405Ive seen no indication  that Stackhouse had access at any time to a suitable lower priced 
or lower commission policy.
So I dont  think I can reasonably uphold this particular part of the complaint.
Gs comments on this relate to Mr Ms position as he wasnt ever a partner of the firm after it 
acquired the brokering business.  But I reiterate  that Stackhouse wasnt obliged to reveal 
details of its commission. And Mr M was aware he would be charged commission  although  I 
accept he didnt know the rate and didnt challenge  this until it was disclosed to him.
non-disclosure of the role of other  companies  in receipts of commission
In my provisional decision I said:
G says that between 2003 and 2017  Mr and Mrs M paid their insurance premiums to the 
company B, then after a name  change in 2015 to R. Both companies were predecessors of 
Stackhouse. Yet the commission was paid to a third company, L. On the invoices to 
Mr and Mrs M received (at least from 2013 onwards) it is stated that B (later R) is an 
appointed representative of [L]. Stackhouse has confirmed that L arranged the insurance 
and received the commission  but its arrangement with it meant that it wrote  to clients  and 
issued the documents under the B or R name. 
But all commission went to L, as the commission statements Mr and Mrs M obtained from 
Stackhouse has confirmed. And as all contact with Mr and Mrs M was through Stackhouse, 
the latter firm was responsible for accounting to them. The commission  statements for the 
years 2003-2008 are addressed to L, and those for 2009-2018 to Stackhouse.  I presume the 
latter documents were  reissued as Stackhouse didnt take over until 2018. So the 
arrangements are a bit confusing. But from Mr and Mrs Ms point of view they were paying  
one premium and one commission, so I dont think it was up to Stackhouse  to tell them  of its 
broking arrangements.  In any event it did so from at least 2013. And Ive seen no evidence 
that any secret profit was earned.
Neither party has commented on this so I stand  by my provisional  findings.
failure to disclose that commission was very high
Ive dealt with this, and the conflict of interest point, above.
failure to disclose the reasons for the property being over-insured
In my provisional decision I said:
In 2003 when  the policy was first taken  out, H arranged a valuation  of the property. The 
price was adjusted  each year in line with the buildings index. In 2015 H agreed  to carry out a 
new valuation of the property. In 2003  the recommended building sum insured  was 
£543,500, by 2015 because of indexation  that cost had risen  to £841,545. After  the new 
valuation it was recommended  that the sum insured should be £522,700.
Stackhouse queried  the basis of the reduction. H said that both valuations were  correct   
that it was an unusual and unique situation  where  the indexing of the property  value had led 
to much too big an increase in value. Stackhouse told Mr and Mrs M of the decrease, but not 
of the explanation it had been given. Mr and Mrs M didnt query this but did want a slightly  
Ref: DRN69734406higher rebuilding cost figure  set at £537,000. H agreed to a one-off refund of part of the 
premium, of £362.61.
I have to say that I dont  know  why Stackhouse accepted Hs explanation without telling 
Mr and Mrs M. In that course  of its correspondence  with H it said that is client would  not be 
happy and would be looking for an explanation. It also said that it would like H to write 
directly to Mr and Mrs M, to explain the position. After a telephone call with H, it no longer 
asked for that.
I think it most likely  that, if the buildings  sum insured hadnt been  indexed over the years, 
lower premiums would  have applied. I think Stackhouse should have told Mr and Mrs M 
about their correspondence with H, or pursued  its request for H to write directly  to 
Mr and Mrs M. Certainly, if I were considering a complaint about H, I would want  to see 
further information before deciding if Hs actions were reasonable. But I dont think  
Stackhouse was responsible for the wrong valuation. I think it was reasonable for it (and for 
Mr and Mrs M) to accept the first valuation and the indexing. It has been  suggested by G that 
Mr and Mrs M no longer have the opportunity  to pursue H, because  of the Limitation Act, and 
because the matter has gone  stale. So they seek a refund of some of the premiums from 
Stackhouse.  
I dont think Mr and Mrs M have  lost their opportunity to pursue H. It seems to me that the 
issue arose in 2015, so they would still be in time to put a complaint  to H. But even if Im 
wrong in that assumption, and the matter was deemed to arise  in 2003, Mr and Mrs M would 
still have had three years to pursue  a complaint (See Dispute Resolution  (DISP) Rules  in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook DISP  2.8.2). They were certainly aware  in July 
2015 that the property had been revalued at a much lower price  than before, as they 
specifically asked Stackhouse to set a slightly higher figure than the new recommended  
figure, and received the premium refund. Mr M would have known that the value would likely 
have had an effect on the premiums, but didnt  seek to query it further.
So I dont  propose  to make an award  in respect  of any loss of premiums.  I think Stackhouse 
should have passed onto Mr and Mrs M the details of its discussion with H. For its failure  to 
do so, in respect of the upset this would  have caused Mr and Mrs M, I propose to make an 
award of £100.
Neither party has commented on this so I stand  by my provisional  findings
failure to give advice on a fair analysis of the markets
In my provisional decision I said:
G says that from at least 2015, Stackhouses terms and conditions  provided that We  offer 
independent insurance advice on the basis of a fair analysis of the market.  I have been 
referred to ICOBS 5.3.3,  which has been  in force since at least  January 2008, which says: 
where such information is given  to a customer,  the insurance intermediary must give that 
advice on the basis of an analysis of a sufficiently large number of contracts of insurance 
available on the market to enable it to make a recommendation
Stackhouse said that at the start of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, it had approached insurers who it 
felt would be able to offer a policy which was suitable to their requirements.  During  the 
period the insurance was held, Mr and Mrs Ms requirements didnt  change. With its 
knowledge of comparable products and rates available in the market, it felt that H continued 
Ref: DRN69734407to offer the most suitable policy with comprehensive cover.  Stackhouse Poland considered 
that advice had been given on the basis of a fair analysis of the market.
I note that Stackhouse has no records before  2012 of any analysis of the market that it may 
have done. I think  that throughout  the lifetime of the policy Stackhouse was operating on the 
basis of a fair analysis  of the market. And, with the exception of the first year,  I dont think 
that such an analysis  was undertaken. Instead, it appears that its staff relied  on their 
knowledge of the market  to continue recommending the policy with H. But I think, in order to 
demonstrate that a fair analysis has been  done, Stackhouse  should  be able to show us 
which companies on its panel were asked to quote.  I dont think that was done. For the 2016 
and 2017 policies Stackhouse did obtain  quotes  for the buildings  insurance only from 
another company. And at Mr Ms request it approached another  company but established 
that that company wouldnt quote because of the insurance claim.
Whilst Stackhouse has said that the amount of commission had no bearing  on the premium, 
I dont think thats  right  its clear  from the invoices that the premium  paid included  
commission, which Stackhouse retained before passing on the net premium  to H.
As to figures, I bear in mind that there are no records  before 2012,  but I think it most likely 
that no analysis  of the markets was done  then. In my view,  Stackhouse,  having  not carried 
out a full analysis on the basis of its contract with Mr and Mrs M should be refunding some 
commission. For the years up until 2012, I take into account that because  of the subsidence  
claim in 2003, there would have been  a limited ability to approach insurers. And also that this 
service had no jurisdiction over Stackhouse until 2005. I propose  to make an award  of 
£1,000, plus interest  at 8% from the date of the 2012  renewal onwards.
For the years 2012 to 2017, I think that Stackhouse  should reduce its commission to 10% 
and refund the difference between the actual  commissions  paid each year and a figure equal 
to 10% of the premiums. It should add interest  at the rate of 8% from the date each premium  
was paid, until repayment.
I note Stackhouses assertion that it did carry out an analysis of the markets. But as Ive 
pointed out in my provisional findings there is little evidence of this. I note it says that the 
subsidence claim limited its ability to search  the markets. This might have been the case  in 
the early years of the policy but Ive seen no indication from the papers that it advised  
Mr and Mrs M that it couldnt search  the markets nor that a structural  engineers  report  might 
be required. 
I note Stackhouses continued assertion  that the amount of the commission had no bearing 
on the premium. This may be technically true  the premium  is set and then commission  
follows that. But it would appear that there  are rates of commission  that follow  each 
particular policy. And the consumer  pays the full commission which  is retained  from the total 
amount they pay  the insurer doesnt pay the commission separately.  So the amount of 
premium has a bearing on the commission charged.
Nevertheless I note Stackhouses agreement to my proposal concerning its commission  and 
shall make  an award to that effect.
negligent advice
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN69734408G alleges  that because of the failures to give advice or carry out an analysis of the markets, 
Stackhouse gave negligent  advice.  I should  emphasise here that I dont decide on matters of 
negligence  if Mr and Mrs M want  to pursue that then they should consider legal 
proceedings.
But I have considered whether, because of the failure to carry out an analysis of the 
markets, Mr and Mrs M were prevented from moving to a cheaper policy. But I think  its not 
possible to say that, for the following reasons:
I think it likely that they would have continued  with Hs policy for at least  5 years after the 
subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs M did query the premiums from time to time but were happy to remain  with 
H, particularly because  of its claim handling  service.
Theres no evidence that Stackhouse  would  have  found another  suitable  policy.
The quotes obtained in 2016 and 2017,  whilst not advised  to Mr and Mrs M, were for 
buildings only and theres no evidence they would have proceeded with them.
The last quote  was for £3,143  in 2018 for policy with 24% commission. The policy  
Mr and Mrs M bought was for £2,095,  with 8.5%  commission.  With a lower commission 
Hs policy would have  been £2,708. So I dont  think theres a substantial  difference  
between the policies. 
Mr M was aware of his options  taking into account his background in insurance broking.
I accept that Mr M didnt have a background in insurance broking. Gs comments confirm  
what Ive found   that the new policy is substantively the same cover  for a similar price, but 
the commission rate is much lower. This can be remedied  by my award concerning  
commission. 
failure to supply new information required by regulations
In my provisional decision I said:
G says Mr and Mrs M werent told of the new information required to be given to consumers 
consequent upon the 2017 change in the rules. This required  Stackhouse from 1 April 2017 
to tell the customer at the fourth  renewal  of the likely  availability of policies elsewhere (to 
shop around). Stackhouse has pointed out that the 2017  renewal notice was sent out 
before 1 April 2017. G has argued  that as H gave that information  to Stackhouse before  this, 
it should have  advised Mr and Mrs M. It relies  on the principles of treating the client fairly.
I dont think that Mr and Mrs M can rely on the general principles that apply to insurance 
sales to argue that Stackhouse should  have used wording that hadnt yet come into effect. 
We dont in any event  punish firms for not complying with regulations.  Mr and Mrs M have 
shown throughout  their dealings with Stackhouse that they were aware of the annual  
premium. I think  also that Mr M would have been  aware that they could shop around if they 
wanted to.
Neither party has commented on this so I stand  by my provisional  findings
legal costs
G has asked that I award Mr and Mrs M their legal costs. As I have advised,  under the 
dispute resolution (DISP) rules DISP  3.7.10  says:
Ref: DRN69734409"In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers  to bring 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman  Service, so awards of costs  are unlikely to be 
common.
I dont think the apparently accidental  disclosure  of the commission has any bearing  on 
whether legal costs  should be awarded.  And I do think that the issues were straightforward.  
Consumers dont need to know the rules and regulations that apply, that information is 
available to this service and we take them into account where relevant in any event. 
Mr and Mrs M chose  to instruct a solicitor to present their case  which  they have every right 
to do. I dont however think that the employment  of a professional adviser  was necessary so 
I wont award costs.
overall
Save where  Ive noted above  my provisional  findings are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Stackhouse Poland Limited  to:
repay to Mr and Mrs M part of the commission it earned on their home insurance policy 
as follows:
-for the years 2005 to 2011 to pay £1.000 together with simple  interest* at 8% 
from the date of the 2012 renewal until it repays Mr and Mrs M.
-for the years 2012 to 2017 inclusive repay  to Mr and Mrs M any commission  it 
earned over and above 10% of the premiums for each year together  with simple 
interest* at 8% from the dates of payment of each years commission until such 
time as it repays Mr and Mrs M.
.
pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Stackhouse Poland Limited to take tax off any interest it pays to 
Mr and Mrs M. Should Mr and Mrs M request it, Stackhouse Poland should give Mr and Mrs M a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off so they can reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6973440