K821x#15complaint
K on behalf of Mr B has complained that Mr B was mis-sold a  policy  by his broker Richard 
Tidball Insurance Services  Limited  (RTIS).
background
Mr B is a farmer. He insured his farm through RTIS from 2003 when he bought it with a 
partner.
In 2012 there was a serious fire in one of the sheds  at the farm. He made  a claim to his 
insurer. It appeared that Mr B had under-insured, that is he hadnt insured his farm buildings 
for the full cost of reinstating them.  As a result  the insurer reduced the claim settlement 
proportionately.
K says RTIS should have  advised Mr B of the need to insure his property  for the full 
reinstatement value and also advised him to seek the advice of a building  surveyor  regarding 
the value. K says as a result  of failings on the part of RTIS Mr Bs insurer has paid him 
considerably less than he would otherwise have received.
RTIS says that it visited the farm in 2003 to meet Mr B and his partner. It said it would have 
made them aware of the need  to insure  their property  for the full reinstatement value  and 
theyd usually recommend that Mr B should  appoint a local builder if he was unsure of how 
much to insure his buildings for. It said it routinely tells policyholders of the consequences of 
under-insurance.
RTIS says that according to its records Mr B reduced the sum insured in 2007 and then 
again in 2011. It says in 2011 it discussed the changes with Mr B and told him that it couldnt 
advise him regarding the valuation. RTIS says it checked with him the reason for the 
reduction in the sum insured and was told Mr B had sold half the farm. RTIS says it would 
have reminded him of the consequence of under-insuring. It says in reply Mr B indicated he 
thought the premium was too high.
K brought  a complaint to this service  on behalf of Mr B. Our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. He didnt  think RTIS had shown that it had warned Mr B about the risk of under-
insurance. He recommended that RTIS should pay Mr B the difference between what hed 
received from his insurer in settlement of his claim and what he would have received if hed 
insured his buildings for the full reinstatement cost less any increase in premium that Mr B 
had saved by under-insuring.
As RTIS  didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RTIS advised Mr B regarding his insurance policy and recommended  the policy  to him. That 
means RTIS had a duty to make sure that the policy was suitable for Mr Bs needs.  One of 
the most  important considerations in making sure a policy is suitable is the sum insured, 
particularly if, as in this case, the policy allows the claim settlement to be reduced for under-
insurance. That doesnt mean RTIS had to calculate the rebuild cost itself or decide the sum 
insured. But, as it recommended the policy, I think it had to tell Mr B:
Ref: DRN68245522that it was his responsibility to decide the sum insured;
that the sum had to represent the full rebuild cost of the farm buildings;
where he could get further information  or advice on how to calculate the rebuild cost; and
that if he didnt insure for the full rebuild cost, any claim settlement from his insurer might  
be reduced. Thats because there was a clause in his policy entitling the insurer to reduce  
its liability in the event of a claim  to a sum that bears the same  proportion to the loss as 
the sum insured does to the full value of the property  insured (an average clause). For 
the avoidance of doubt I dont think its sufficient for a broker on an advised  sale to expect 
the policyholder to be aware of the impact of an average  clause just because its set out 
somewhere in the policy  (page  24 in this case).
I cant see that RTIS covered off the last point  sufficiently when it recommended the policy to 
Mr B. 
In 2011 Mr B contacted RTIS to say he wanted  to reduce the sum insured from over 
£270,000 to £210,000.  A staff member of RTIS says she told him RTIS couldnt  advise how 
much to insure the farm, buildings for and that he should contact a building surveyor  or 
builder if unsure. She said she was clear that the sum insured needed to be sufficient to 
cover all the cost of rebuilding in the event of a claim.
RTIS says it would also have reminded Mr B about the consequences  of under-insurance as 
this is its practice. RTIS might have drawn Mr Bs attention  to the average  clause. But it 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that this is the case. Not all policyholders 
by any means are aware of the way average  clauses work. So I think  it was particularly 
important for RTIS to explain this and then follow that up with written advice to Mr B.
RTIS thinks its unfair that the burden of proof  should be on it to show  that it gave 
appropriate advice  to Mr B. It would  obviously  be far easier to decide this complaint if RTIS 
had audio recordings  of its calls or followed its discussion up with a clear  written statement 
of its advice. I regard  this as good industry practice.  If this evidence isnt available, Ill look to 
the firm to set out why on the balance of probabilities I should accept its version of events 
rather than the consumers. RTIS hasnt been able to show  that it gave clear advice to Mr B 
specifically with regard  to the average  clause.
I have to decide whats most likely  to have happened based on what evidence  there  is. 
Having considered the evidence available, I think its more likely that RTIS didnt advise Mr B 
properly regarding the average  clause.
So for the reasons outlined above I think the policy was mis-sold.  But I dont award 
compensation just because  a policy has  been  mis-sold  the mis-sale must also have  
prejudiced the consumer.  In this case I think its likely that the mis-sale has prejudiced Mr B. 
Thats because if hed been told about the risk of under-insuring, I think hed have taken 
steps to find out the true reinstatement value  of his property and then increased the sum 
insured to reflect that. I appreciate that Mr B was concerned to keep the cost of his premium 
down but on balance I dont think its likely hed have risked the possibility of a claim being 
reduced if hed been  told about the possible impact of the average  clause  if he had a claim.
It follows that in my opinion its only reasonable for RTIS  to pay Mr B for the amount by 
which his claim was reduced due to under-insurance. I note that by under-insuring, Mr B 
paid less in premiums. Its only fair that Mr B shouldnt  benefit from that. I think  the savings 
he made on the premiums  should be deducted  from the amount to be paid by RTIS.
Ref: DRN68245523K has asked  me to take into account  the fact that the claim settlement was also affected 
because the policy limit of £25,000  for debris  removal was almost  half what  it should have 
been because  of the presence of asbestos  in the building. It says that a building  surveyor  
would have realised  this and advised on the need  to obtain higher cover  for site clearance.  I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr B had the property inspected  by a building  surveyor 
before he and his former partner bought it. Im not persuaded that if he had been aware of 
the average clause  hed have taken advice from a building  surveyor. I think his keenness to 
keep his premiums as low as possible means  that he would have been  more likely to have 
obtained advice  on reinstatement in a more economical way such as advice from a builder. 
So I dont  think its likely  he would have been  advised that he would have higher site 
clearance costs. I dont propose  to increase my award on account of this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Richard  Tidball Insurance  Services Limited to pay Mr B: 
the full amount his insurer would have settled  the buildings claim for if it hadnt reduced 
the settlement due to the under-insurance of the farm buildings  but taking into account  the 
policy limit of £25,000 for debris removal;
less what the insurer actually paid; and
less the extra premium(s) Mr B would have paid from 2003 and on each renewal up to the 
date of the loss in order  to insure  the farm buildings for their full reinstatement value.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6824552