K822xcomplaint
Miss D says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading  as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly  
lent to her. Miss D has said the loans were  unaffordable  and she had to borrow  further to 
repay them.
background
This complaint is about nine short-term loans  Sunny  provided to Miss D between  
November 2016  and June 2017. Miss Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
NumberDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsAmount  
£
1 04/11/2016 07/04/2017 6 200
2 06/11/2016 16/03/2017 6 100
3 28/11/2016 24/02/2017 6 100
4 13/12/2016 02/06/2017 6 250
5 01/03/2017 17/03/2017 6   50
6 17/03/2017 25/10/2017 6 200
7 20/03/2017 21/11/2017 6 200
8 07/04/2017 25/10/2017 6 250
9 03/06/2017 25/10/2017 6 200
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ds complaint.  He thought loans four to nine shouldnt 
have been lent to Miss D. Sunny disagreed but later offered to uphold Miss Ds complaint 
from loan seven. Miss D didnt agree.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss D could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN61163842the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Miss D didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion  that loans one to three  shouldnt  be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss D had with Sunny.  So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Like the adjudicator,  I agree that by loan four Sunny should have considered  whether Miss D 
may have  been  having problems with managing her money. I say this because  she had 
already taken out three loans in the previous month and they were running concurrently,  so 
Miss D had to service that debt already, and the monthly repayments  would only be 
increased further by taking loan four. 
I also note that loan four was the largest  amount borrowed  £250  which may have been 
an indication  that she was borrowing more to finance the debt she already had and should 
have been something sunny Should  have realised. This raises the question of whether  the 
lending was sustainable for Miss D. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN61163843Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ds case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan six. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss D was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Miss D had taken out six loans within  four months.  So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Miss D was having to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loans was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ds indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
For loan six Miss D was provided  with a new loan the same  day of settling loan five 
suggesting she was becoming persistently reliant  on short-term  lending. 
Miss D wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan nine 
was taken out seven months  after Miss Ds first. And it was for the same amount as 
the first loan. Miss D had paid large  amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to 
Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Miss D lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
the number  of loans which Miss D borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Ds ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four to nine and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss D paid on loans four to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about four and five from Miss Ds credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans  six to nine should be removed from 
Miss Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Ref: DRN61163844Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6116384