K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained because Nationwide Building Society recorded two late payment markers 
on her credit  file. She wants these removed.
background
Mrs Ms mortgage payments were  due on the first of each month. Shed been paying  by 
direct debit around 28th of each month,  up to and including March  2018. However, there was 
a change to the day of the month when Mrs M was paid. She cancelled  her direct  debit,  and 
no payment went to Nationwide during April.
On 29 May, Mrs M rang Nationwide. She said she needed to make  a payment, and to set up 
another direct debit.  The adviser asked when  she wanted the direct  debit  set up. Mrs M 
asked for the first of the month. The adviser  said it was too late for 1 June, so it would  have 
to start from 1 July, and Mrs M would have to make a manual  payment for June. Mrs M 
agreed. He then put her through to the collections department to discuss  payments.
The second  adviser asked whether Mrs M had had financial difficulties in April, and Mrs M 
explained that the date she was paid had changed.  It was now the last day of each month. 
She told the adviser that the person shed just spoken to had set up her new direct debit. 
The adviser asked  if Mrs M wanted to pay for April and May. Mrs M said shed pay for April 
straightaway, and would ring again in a couple of days  time to pay for May.
Mrs M paid one payment,  and the adviser  said she was up to date apart  from the payment 
which was due by the end of May.  He warned  that with any outstanding  balance there was 
the potential to have an effect  on the credit  file. Mrs M said she didnt want her credit file 
affected and asked about the process.  The adviser said that generally it was reported to a 
credit file when a payment was over a month.
But Mrs M didnt ring again to make  the May payment by the end of the month. She did ring 
on 6 June. She explained to the adviser that her new direct debit couldnt start till July so she 
was ringing to make  an interim payment.
In the discussions  that followed, the adviser  explained to Mrs M that Aprils payment was still 
outstanding. Mrs M thought shed paid that the previous week, and that she was phoning  to 
pay Mays. The adviser explained that the direct debit due to be taken on 1 July would be for 
Julys payment, not Junes. So Mrs M currently owed Nationwide for one previous payment, 
plus Junes. She paid for one payment. The adviser  explained that the latest  a direct debit 
could be paid was 28th of each month,  but she could  set up a standing order  herself for the 
last day of each  month  if she wished.  Mrs M said shed set up a standing  order  which would 
leave her bank on the last day of June and subsequent months.
Mrs M said the May adviser had said something wrong. She said hed taken the payment for 
April, and shed  said she would pay Mays  payment once she got paid. Mrs M didnt want her 
credit file affected, so the adviser said hed record a complaint for her.
Meanwhile, Nationwide issued Mrs M with arrears  letters dated  6 June and 6 July. It also 
sent Mrs M a text, asking  her to ring about her mortgage. 
Nationwide replied to Mrs Ms complaint in a letter dated 7 July. It set out that Mrs M had 
cancelled her direct debit so no payment was made in April.  In the call on 29 May, shed 
Ref: DRN64079042made one payment but had been  advised to make a manual payment for May, which she 
hadnt done. Mrs M had made another payment on 6 June, but this didnt clear the balance 
she owed. So Nationwide said the credit marker would remain until Mrs Ms account was up 
to date, because  both advisers had made  her aware that there  were  still payments due.
On 10 July, Mrs M rang Nationwide again. She was on holiday abroad, so said that the call 
was costing her a lot. The adviser  offered to put the account on hold until Mrs M was back, 
but she was willing to go ahead. They discussed  the account, and Mrs M said she was 
particularly keen for it not to affect her credit file, because she was in the process of trying  to 
buy the other half of her property. Mrs M made two months payments, and the adviser put 
forward another complaint.
Nationwide replied to the second  complaint  on 18 September.  It said that it had listened  to 
the calls, and Mrs M hadnt  been told that the 1 July payment was for Junes payment. 
Nationwide said that credit files have to be an accurate record of how payments are made,  
so it couldnt change what it had reported.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  and complained  to this service.
The adjudicator set out what had happened. He explained that:
-No payment had been made  in April 2018;
-Mrs M had made one payment on 29 May  so was still one month in arrears;
-Mrs M had made one payment on 6 June  so was still one month  in arrears, unless 
she paid Junes payment by the end of the month;
-Mrs M made  a double payment on 10 July. This paid for the one month in arrears,  
plus the July payment.  The new direct  debit was set up for 1 August.
So the adjudicator didnt  think  Nationwide  was wrong to put markers on Mrs Ms credit file, 
because she had been in arrears. 
But he noted  that Nationwide had been  slow about replying to Mrs Ms July complaint  it 
hadnt replied  till after Mrs M had chased  in September. Nationwide had also delayed in 
providing Mrs M with call recordings, and the passwords she needed  to access  these. It had 
also only sent two of the four call recordings until the adjudicator asked Nationwide  to send  
all the calls to Mrs M  and hed also had to chase.  So the adjudicator considered  that 
Nationwide should  pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its slow response to Mrs Ms second complaint and sending her the call 
recordings.
Nationwide agreed  to pay Mrs M £100. But Mrs M said she was still not happy  that the late 
payment markers  had been added to her credit file, and she was unhappy with the way 
Nationwide had treated her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening carefully to all four 
call recordings  between Mrs M and Nationwide.
Mrs Ms mortgage payments were  due on 1st of each month, and this will have been set out 
on her original mortgage documents when she took out the mortgage. Its also on the arrears 
letters. I can see from her account that for a long time shed been  making  her payments 
Ref: DRN64079043around 28th of each month. For example, she made  the payment due on 1 March 2018  on 28 
March 2018. She hadnt been reported for paying  late because, as the 29 May adviser  told 
her, Nationwide generally didnt report a late payment until it was over a month. 
The leeway during the calendar month is also explained  on the arrears letters Nationwide  
sent to Mrs M on 6 and 7 July: 
Please note if youve  not yet made the monthly payment that was due on 1st of this month, 
itll be included in the arrears balance. If weve been  allowing you to make your monthly 
payments on a later day of the month chosen by you, we wont take any action to recover 
this part of the arrears  balance  so long as it is paid by your chosen day.
So in fact Mrs M had been making  her payments quite near to the last date for the period in 
which she could pay. For example shed  paid on 28 March for the payment due on 1 March, 
when the last day she could pay without going  into arrears was 31 March.  Nationwide  was 
fine with this, but it meant Mrs M didnt have much  more  leeway.
Mrs M cancelled her direct debit and didnt  make a payment at all in April. And although she 
made one payment on 29 May, shed have  had to make another payment on or before  31 
May for the account  to be put right with both April and May fully paid. She told the adviser 
she was paid on the last day of each  month, and shed  ring to pay as soon as she was paid.
But Mrs M didnt ring to make her next payment when she was paid on 31 May. It was 6 
June when she rang. By that time, as Ive explained  above, the window of opportunity  to 
make Mays payment on time had ended - and by then Junes  payment  was due too. Mrs M 
paid for one month, meaning the account was still one month behind, and stayed in arrears  
until she paid two payments on 10 July. The account  was then straight, ready  for her direct 
debit on 1 August  to pay for Augusts due payment.
I recognise theres been some confusion about Mrs Ms direct debits. The problem was that 
shed cancelled it in April. And as the adviser  on 6 June explained, the latest day Nationwide  
could do direct debits  was 28th of each  month. As Mrs M was now being  paid on the last day, 
28th didnt  work for her, so it was agreed  that Mrs M would set up a standing order  instead  
because standing orders can go out on the last day of a month. The adviser explained that 
theyd expect the June payment by the last day of June. Mrs M agreed,  but as Ive set out, 
she didnt do this and didnt pay until 10 July.
I do understand that Mrs M found this confusing.  But whenever  she didnt make a months  
payment until the calendar month  after which it was due, shed  be reported for a late 
payment. Nationwide reported two late payments to the credit agencies.  These  were  for May 
and June. Mrs M was in arrears from 1 May  because  she didnt pay anything in April  to 
10 July, when she paid two months  and brought the account up to date. So I find that 
Nationwides reporting of two late payment markers was accurate. Ive also listened carefully 
to the calls, and theres nowhere  where an adviser gave Mrs M incorrect information. 
Lenders are obliged to report accurate information about payments   and what  Nationwide 
reported was accurate.  So I dont require Nationwide  to remove these markers.
I have, however, also considered the service  which Nationwide gave Mrs M about  her 
complaint. I consider Nationwide  should have provided all four call recordings when Mrs M 
asked for them,  not just two. And there were problems with the passwords, too. So I find that 
Nationwide should  pay Mrs M compensation for this. I consider £100  is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN64079044my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
-I order Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by the delays and confusion in sending  her the call 
recordings relating  to her complaint;
-I do not uphold  Mrs Ms complaint that Nationwide  should  remove  the two credit  file 
markers, for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6407904