K820x#14complaint
T, a commercial company which Ill also call the company,  has complained that the actions 
of its bank Santander UK Plc (the bank)  led the company to form a too optimistic  
assessment of the trading  prospects  of a business  that the company bought using a loan 
from the bank.
T also complains that the bank has failed to help the company adequately in the financial 
difficulties into which the company fell as a result  of the disappointing  trading performance of 
the business that the company bought. 
background
The companys basic points are these:
The same  manager at the bank was acting for the seller  and the buyer of the 
business in question,  which resulted in a conflict of interest  that caused financial loss 
to T.
Specifically, that manager told T, before the purchase,  that the business was 
showing better trading  figures  than Ts business  plan was showing. The manager 
encouraged T to go back to the seller to query  this. The seller then produced better  
figures which T incorporated into a revised  business plan that it submitted to the 
bank. The bank  then approved the £1.6m loan to the company on the strength of the 
improved business plan.
The performance of the business has, however, been more  in line with Ts original 
figures. And T has been finding it hard to service  its debt.  
T came to revised lending arrangements with the bank in 2017. But T has continued 
to do less well than expected and now wants to sell the business. And T says the 
bank hasnt helped  the company enough to deal with its ongoing financial difficulties. 
In essence, T accuses  the bank or either  deliberately  or negligently  leading  the 
company to conclude  the business was doing  better than in fact it was.
Contrary to what the bank claims, T was told by the bank that the same  manager 
acted for the seller.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ts complaint. In brief, she concluded it was the companys 
responsibility to check  the figures  the seller  produced. Nor was there any evidence the bank 
asked T to query the figures with the seller.  
T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. The company annotated those conclusions 
with its own comments and provided  documents which it thought bolstered its case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint T but I too have 
concluded the companys complaint doesnt succeed.
When a bank lends  money to a commercial customer so that the customer  can buy a 
business, then unless there are exceptional circumstances, the following  principles  generally  
apply - and thats  so whether or not the seller of the business also banks with the bank in 
question:
Ref: DRN69540902The bank  is under no duty to advise the customer  on the commercial prospects of the 
purchase.
The bank  is under no duty to counsel  the commercial customer  on the advisability of 
taking out the loan.  The bank  will wish to protect  its own interests by seeking  not to 
make an imprudent loan, but that doesnt  translate into a duty owed to the customer. 
The bank  doesnt owe a duty of care, or any other duty,  to the customer  to ensure the 
customer is adequately  informed  about the business which  the customer plans to 
buy.
The bank  is under no duty to assist the customer  financially if the purchase doesnt 
turn out well. In such a case,  the bank is entitled  to assess  whether to give help, in 
line with its usual  criteria and commercial  judgement. 
Theres no conflict of interest  just because the seller and buyer both bank with, and 
have loans from, the same bank.  
Theres no evidence the bank encouraged T to go back to the seller  to question  the figures. 
But even if the bank had done that, its still the seller that would have responsibility for the 
figures given, not the bank. And it would be Ts responsibility to assess the figures.  
Theres been little documentary evidence for me to consider that deals  with the disputed 
points. But what there is doesnt necessarily support Ts case.  T submitted a business plan 
on 26 April. The company then submitted a revised business plan on 30 April.  But that was 
before the manager in question even knew about  the purchase,  according to email  
exchanges to which T was a party.  T says it was at some point between 1 May and mid-May 
that the manager told T to query the figures,  which led to a revised business plan.
The email  exchanges  certainly show T was aware the seller banked with Santander.  But 
they dont show  that it was Santander that informed the company of that fact. The emails  
from the bank say as you know etc. 
The fact that T knew that the seller was also Santanders customer  seems in any case  to 
weaken Ts case regarding a possible conflict of interest, rather  than to bolster  it. It would, if 
anything, have meant T treated the banks  role with more caution and examined the sellers 
revised figures with even  greater care. 
I havent seen  any reason  to think that the bank owed T a duty to give it financial support 
when the purchase  didnt  turn out as well as T had hoped. 
To sum up, there are no exceptional circumstances that Ive found  which  would disapply the 
general principles Ive set out above. I dont  think the bank breached  any duty owed to T or 
treated the company unfairly.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6954090