K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with a caravan  she got using finance from Black Horse Limited. She says 
when she got it, it was infested with bugs. She wants to reject the caravan.
background
Mrs H has complained along with her husband.  The finance agreement  is only in Mrs Hs 
name. So, to keep things simple  I will only refer to Mrs H in my decision.
In November 2018 Mrs H agreed to trade  in her old caravan for a newer one from a caravan 
site Ill call W. The caravan and associated fees cost a total of £30,075. The finance 
arrangement shows  a total deposit  of £10,075.  The rest of the balance  was financed  with a 
hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse.
In December 2018 Mrs H arrived  with her husband to stay in the caravan. But, she says she 
woke up in the night to find it was crawling with bugs. Mrs H says she was extremely 
distressed by this and spoke to Ws staff  showing them a sample of the bugs. Mrs H says 
she asked to reject the caravan at this point.
In January 2019 W replaced the carpets and bedding in the caravan and believed this would  
solve the problem.  But, Mrs H stayed  another night and says the same thing happened. 
Mrs H says that she again asked W to reject  the caravan.
The same month, W arranged for an inspection  to take place by a pest control company. 
They confirmed they found insects and recommended  a three stage  treatment to solve  the 
issue. This took place  in February 2019.  After the treatment, W replaced the mattress,  bed 
frame and bedding.
In March 2019 Mrs H complained to Black Horse and said she wanted to reject the caravan. 
Black Horse  wrote to Mrs H and explained  that it was upholding her complaint. It offered 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs H had been through.  It said it 
thought the issue with the bugs had now been  resolved  and it said the pest control 
company had reported that the treatment had been  successful.  But, it said there  was no 
evidence Mrs H had asked to reject the caravan  within 30 days, so as there was no longer  
an issue it wouldnt allow her to do this.
Mrs H was unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said he thought Black  Horses offer was fair. He said he believed the caravan 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. But, he thought Black Horse had done enough to put things 
right. Mrs H remained  unhappy  so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
While this complaint has been  with our service, Mrs Hs representative has raised other 
issues that shes unhappy with, including that Mrs H was pressured into taking the finance,  
that it was unaffordable and that she believes there  are discrepancies  with the amount 
financed. These issues do not form part of this complaint   so I havent considered these 
Ref: DRN66178402further in my decision. This decision only addresses the issue originally raised to Black  
Horse about the quality  of the caravan.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This says that when Mrs H 
got the caravan, the supplier (Black Horse) had a responsibility to make sure it was of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking 
into account things  like the caravans age, price, description and other relevant factors.
In this case, Black Horse  seems to accept  that the caravan wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.  But, for the sake of clarity I think its worth considering this myself. Im 
satisfied that the caravan had a pest infestation when it was supplied.  I say this after 
considering what  Mrs H told us and the photos  shes supplied - along  with what the report 
from the pest control company said.  
This initial inspection  says found activity in the master bedroom,  under the mattress and in 
the slats of the bed. I found  blood  spotting, live adults and eggs.  Given this issue arose on 
the first night Mrs H spent in the caravan, Im satisfied it was likely there when she acquired  
it. I dont  think a reasonable  person  wouldve expected  this. So, Im satisfied the caravan 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Mrs H says she asked to reject the caravan as soon  as the issue  arose.  This is important, as 
the CRA  gives Mrs H the short term right to reject  if the goods werent of satisfactory quality 
and if she asked to reject the caravan  in the first 30 days after it was supplied. Black Horse  
has said there is no evidence Mrs H asked  to reject the caravan  and it believes she 
authorised the treatment  by the pest control company. Ive thought carefully about this.
Its worth  noting that its not enough to just consider if Mrs H asked to reject the caravan at 
any point. I need  to consider the overall  outcome of any conversations about this and what  
was agreed. This includes whether Mrs H authorised  the repairs to be carried out after 
initially asking to reject  the caravan.
In her initial complaint  to us, Mrs H says she complained to W and told them  shed had a 
change of heart after the first night. Ive thought carefully about this. Ive listened to the call 
between Black Horse and Mrs Hs representative  from when the complaint was made. When 
discussing the first time the bugs appeared, Mrs Hs representative doesnt mention that 
Mrs H asked to reject  the caravan after the first night. Instead she says W gave 
Mrs H reassurances that everything would be sorted out and she then left. Thinking  about 
everything, I havent  seen enough  to make me think  its likely Mrs H didnt  authorise  the first 
repair. I think its most likely she agreed for the park to try to sort out the issue.
Even though  the treatment by the pest control  company seems to have been instructed more  
than 30 days after the caravan was supplied, its still important to consider if Mrs H agreed to 
this. I say this as the CRA explains that the 30 day limit stops  running  for the waiting period 
of a repair. For the purposes of this decision, I think repair includes attempts to rid the 
caravan of bugs.  The first repair  appears  to have  been authorised on 15 December  2018   
but the bedding etc. wasnt replaced  until 8 January 2019. This means  when the pest control 
company was instructed, Im satisfied  Mrs H wouldve still had the short  term right to reject.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mrs H has said about the second repair. In the 
initial complaint to us, Mrs H said she never authorised the treatment and she was simply 
told it was happening.  Black Horse said Mrs H told it the repairs  were authorised. During  the 
Ref: DRN66178403call when first complaining to Black  Horse, Mrs Hs representative explains that, initially,  
Mrs H explained to W that she wanted to reject  the caravan  after the second time bugs had 
appeared. But, the representative goes on to say that after W promised to sort everything  
out and that the caravan  would be like new although (Mrs H) didnt want  to, they agreed that 
theyd allow  them this time to put it right.
I asked Mrs H for some comments about this. Her representative said Black Horse told her 
the pest control company  had been  authorised to attend and she agreed as she wasnt sure.  
Ive thought carefully about this. But, having listened  to the call, Black Horse  didnt  tell her 
this. Mrs Hs representative was giving Mrs Hs version of events. Black Horse didnt say the 
repairs were authorised  Mrs Hs representative  said this. And as far as Im aware,  Black  
Horse wouldnt have  known any details about the case at the time, other than what it was 
told during the call.
I understand that this phone call doesnt tell the whole story. I appreciate that Mrs H later 
said the repairs werent authorised. And Ive considered that this call was between  Mrs Hs 
representative and Black Horse, rather than Mrs H herself. But, having considered  
everything, I havent  seen enough  to make me think  its most likely that Mrs H didnt 
authorise the second repair to the caravan after discussing  this with W.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that the caravan  wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mrs H. And, Im satisfied its most likely Mrs H authorised both repairs to put this right.
I now need to consider  if Black Horse has done  enough to put things  right. Firstly, Ive 
considered what  I think the current state  of the caravan is. I understand Mrs H says she 
wont ever use the caravan again.  But, I think its most likely the caravan is now fit for 
purpose and the issue  with the bugs has been resolved. 
I say this as the final report from the pest control company in April 2019 says the treatment 
was successful. It says No insect activity  was noted  at time of todays visit. And, Ive 
considered that W says the caravan has since been  rented out - without any issues. Ive 
thought about everything  Mrs H and her representative have said about this. But, they 
havent given  me anything  to show there  is still an issue  with the caravan.  Ive considered 
the photos sent in, but these are from before the treatment was carried  out. So, these dont 
change my opinion.
Mrs H said there was another  report that was shown  to her in mid-February 2019 by W. She 
says that this report said the pest control  company  couldnt guarantee eggs wouldnt survive, 
or that the treatment would work. Black Horse and W have said the only reports  are the 
initial one recommending the treatment  and the final one saying the caravan was clear of 
bugs. Ive thought carefully about this. Mrs H says she was shown this report  in mid-
February  which  is when the treatment was being carried out. As I explained above, Im 
satisfied the treatment succeeded.  And, the report which explains this is dated after the one 
Mrs H says she saw. So, whether the first report exists or not, it doesnt change my opinion.
Under the CRA, Mrs H has the right for the goods to be repaired. In this case, Im satisfied 
the pest control treatment, along  with replacing the bed frame, mattress and bedding 
repaired the caravan.  So, Im satisfied Black Horse has met its obligations under the CRA. 
Because I think its most likely  she authorised the repairs,  I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to allow  Mrs H to reject  the caravan now the issue has been  rectified.
Ref: DRN66178404Ive considered if Black Horse needs to do anything  further. W has confirmed that an 
alternative caravan  was made available for Mrs H when  hers wasnt usable.  So, I dont think  
Mrs H should get any of her repayments back for the period the caravan couldnt  be used. 
Finally, Ive read everything  Mrs H has told me about how distressing she found this 
situation. I can sympathise with this and understand how upsetting it mustve been to have  
woken up with bugs  in the caravan and bed. Im satisfied Mrs H suffered distress and 
inconvenience because  of what happened. Black Horse has offered £500  compensation to 
reflect this. Im satisfied this is a fair offer to put things right.
my final decision
Black Horse  Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle this complaint. I think 
this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Black Horse Limited  should pay £500  to Mrs H, if it hasnt  already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6617840