K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2001. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Ms S applied  for an Egg credit card. It gave her accident, sickness  and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked  at the PPI screen Ms S wouldve seen during her application for the credit 
card. This gave  her the options Yes, I would like to protect my repayments  against 
accident, sickness and unemployment.  (I understand that by clicking on this box I 
confirm that I have read and agree to the terms of the Egg Card Repayment 
Protection.) or No, I do not wish to protect my repayment and I understand that it will 
be my responsibility to keep up my repayments  should I fall ill or lose my job. The 
options were set out with equal  prominence. 
Ms S says this is not proof she agreed to PPI. The business has sent in a copy  of the 
application report for Ms S. This recorded the information Ms S provided during her 
online application, and the choices she made. There is a Y flag for PPI showing 
Ms S selected the cover during the application process. She says it was added 
without her permission,  but I havent found  any other evidence to support this claim. 
Overall, Im satisfied Canada Square  Operations made it clear to Ms S that PPI was 
optional and its most likely she chose to take it.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for her. It was up to her to decide, given the other  ways  she 
had to make her repayments if she wasnt working.
 
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Ms S all the information  about the 
PPI that she needed  before she made her decision. But it seems Ms S chose to take 
out the policy and so appears to have  wanted this type of cover. She wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively  priced  and 
apparently affordable.  Ms S was entitled to six months full pay and six months  half 
pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits 
and for up to 12 months. It would have allowed her to use any savings to cover other 
living expenses whilst  not working.  So, on balance, given her circumstances and the 
Ref: DRN69730982policy terms, I think it unlikely Ms S wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  
It follows that I dont think Ms S has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973098