K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996. Ms T 
says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms T says that she wasnt aware  that the PPI was optional  and she didnt know  it had been 
added to her account. But I think Barclays made it clear that Ms T didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this 
as it was over 20 years  ago.
Ms T took out her credit card in 1986   she wasnt sold PPI until a phone call with Barclays  
ten years  after shed opened  her account. Theres no call recording available,  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and businesses  arent  required to keep 
records indefinitely. But as Ms T had her card for so long before  she took out the PPI, I think 
its likely  she wouldve  known that she didnt have  to take it out  and that she chose to do 
so. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Ms T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Ms T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms T has said - including  what shes  said about only getting 
10% of the balance  of her credit  card paid by the policy if she made  a claim. But this 10% 
Ref: DRN60925602would be paid per month  for up to 12 months  per claim  which wouldve been more than the 
minimum payment required.  So this point doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms T any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6092560