K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Miss T took out in 2002.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 16th November 2018 upholding Miss Ts 
complaint. Within the decision I made  the following findings:
I wasnt persuaded FICL gave Miss T enough information about the costs  and 
benefits of the PPI policy.
I explained that this would have  mattered to Miss T as she had very good  sick pay 
and savings and so I didnt think she would have  found  any value  in having the cover 
provided by having  PPI.
I concluded that if Miss T had received clearer information on this that she would 
have more likely than not declined having  PPI and I upheld her complaint for this 
reason. I asked FICL to put things right. 
I then gave both parties until 15th December  2018 to make  any further comments.
FICL has not responded to my provisional decision and I have not received any further 
information from them. Miss T responded on 20th November 2018 and says she accepts the 
findings given  in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case.
As both parties have  nothing else to add, I dont  need to consider any new points and so my 
findings do not change from my provisional decision.  So I uphold Miss Ts complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
FICL should put Miss T in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss T would  have  owed  when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN67370382FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss T owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss T would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss T would have owed each month  without PPI  Miss 
T paid more than enough  to clear her balance,  FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss T paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Miss T 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8%.
D.FICL should tell Miss T what its done to work  out A, B and C.
E.If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss T that relates to this 
PPI sale, that sum can be deducted  by FICL from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Miss T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the above reasons I uphold this complaint and direct Financial Insurance Company  
Limited to pay Miss T fair compensation in accordance with the above  calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6737038