K820x#14complaint
Mr G trading as G has complained that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited didnt pay a
claim he made under his motor trade insurance policy.
background
G bought a motor  trade policy with the insurer, Tradewise via a broker.  In August 2018 one
of his vehicles  was damaged in an arson attack. G had parked the vehicle at a friends
address while  he went on holiday with his friend for a few days.  So he made a claim to 
Tradewise.
Tradewise rejected Gs claim for two reasons. It said the vehicle had been modified  and it
wasnt parked at the insured address when the incident happened.
G asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator  thought Tradewise had acted
reasonably and in line with the policy.
G didnt agree. In summary hes unhappy with the policy  wording and the way Tradewise
has applied  the terms to his circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 June 2019.  I thought Tradewise shouldnt  have rejected 
Gs claim because the vehicle had been modified. But I thought  it was reasonable to reject 
Gs claim because the vehicle wasnt parked at the insured address when the incident 
happened.
Tradewise accepted my provisional decision. G didnt agree. So the case  has been passed  
back to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it
for one of the reasons  Tradewise gave - but not both. I understand G doesnt accept what  
Ive said. But there isnt any new information for me to consider. So I havent changed my 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
Tradewise as the insurer is responsible for dealing with any claim G makes under the policy
as it underwrote the policy. Ill address each reason which Tradewise has given for rejecting
Gs claim under the headings below.
Modification
Gs policy says;
Vehicles restricted to Third Party Only cover:-
Kit built vehicles
Any Ford Cosworth  Model
Any vehicle over 25 years  old from date of manufacture
Any Q-Plated vehicle
Customised, Modified  or supercharged.
And listed as a significant exclusion, it reads:
Ref: DRN66419332The Company shall not be liable for:
20. Loss or damage  by fire, theft or accidental damage to any Insured Vehicle that is
of American/Canadian manufacture, kit built, customised, modified or supercharged,
any Ford Cosworth model.  Any Insured Vehicle over 25 years old from date of
manufacture or any Q-plated vehicle.
G says that it isnt possible to buy the vehicle in question from the manufacturer  as a
recovery vehicle as they dont make one so it had to be modified. He says that it therefore
should have been obvious to Tradewise when he insured  the vehicle as a recovery  vehicle
that it was modified. G says his vehicle shouldnt  be considered as modified anyway - as
Tradewise doesnt  define what it means  by modification.
It seems  clear  from what G has told us that he knew the vehicle had been modified.
However, G answered no to the following question on the Statement  of Fact:
Do you handle  or own one of the following: kit built vehicles; vehicles that have been
customised, modified or supercharged; any Ford Cosworth models; vehicles over 25
years old from date of manufacture;  Q-Plated vehicles?
The V5 shows  the truck wasnt a recovery vehicle from new.  By the time G bought it (he
wasnt the first owner), it was a recovery truck. Theres  no dispute that the vehicle was
changed.
Commercial policies are covered by the Insurance  Act 2016.  Under  the act the consumer
has a duty to make a fair representation to Tradewise of the risk it was taking  on. This
means it was for G to disclose anything he knew or should have known that might influence
its decision to offer full cover. As a motor trader,  I think G should have been vigilant in
checking the V5 when buying  a new vehicle.
However, the vehicle  in question appears  to be sold as a chassis cab, with the stated
purpose of being  customised. In this type of vehicle,  an aftermarket fitment is chosen  by the
purchaser. So its also the case that most manufacturers of such  vehicles sell them  in this
way. I therefore think  its arguable that the vehicle was modified  as soon as the first owner
chose to add an insulated, tipper,  flat-bed or other body  to the chassis. I think  Tradewise
should have known it was likely a recovery vehicle wouldnt have left the production line in
that form.
G told Tradewise that this vehicle was a recovery vehicle  when  he added it to the policy.
Tradewise offers full cover to recovery vehicles. So I dont think theres a material  difference
in the risk it took on in insuring a recovery truck that was once  used as an insulated  van.
As theres  another  reason Tradewise relied on to reject Gs claim, theres no need for me to
consider the point about modification any further.
Location
Gs policy says;
The Company will provide Insurance subject  to the terms of this Policy  while  an
Insured Vehicle is:
a) Being used  on any road or temporarily garaged or parked during the course of a
Journey in or on any premises not owned by or in the occupation of the Insured or
any partner, director, employee or person named or described in the Schedule;
Ref: DRN66419333b) Garaged  or parked at the Permanent Residence of the Insured as described  in the
Schedule and/or the Statement  of Fact;
and it defines  the location address  as;
Home/Permanent Residence shall mean  the address shown on the Statement of
Fact and Schedule  as being  the permanent residence of the Insured and the place
where the Insured Vehicle is kept.
Tradewises policy said that G can use the vehicle for social,  domestic and pleasure
purposes. But because G left the vehicle at a different address overnight to go on holiday for
a few days, it wasnt parked within the course of a journey.  and so it said it correctly
rejected his claim.
G says that the policy wording places no such limitation on his journey and hes referred to
the limitations of use wording on his certificate of insurance. Our investigator gave an
example of how the wording would reasonably apply: if G had gone shopping and while  his
vehicle was parked  it was damaged, cover  would apply, because  the vehicle  was parked
during the course of a journey.
G says the wording Tradewise uses means nobody could park their vehicle in a public space
overnight because  it wouldnt be insured  and a consumer would be committing a criminal act
by doing so.
The fact that Tradewise rejected the claim doesnt  mean that Gs vehicle wasnt  insured
under the terms  of the Road Traffic Act. And there  are a wide range of insurance policies
available on the open market for a consumer to choose from to suit their needs.  This is a
motor trade  policy   so it doesnt have the same terms and conditions  as a standard
personal motor insurance policy.  I think Tradewise clearly set out the terms under which Gs
vehicle was insured while  away from the insured address. As the investigator explained, if G
is unhappy about any aspect of the sale of the policy,  he can take this up with the broker.
I understand G is disappointed with my decision.  He has raised  a number of new issues  
which he will need to first raise with Tradewise. I think Tradewises decision to
reject his claim because of the address  where the vehicle  was left - was reached in a
reasonable way and in line with the policy. So I dont  think it should pay Gs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G trading as G 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6641933