K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy because  Vitality Life Limited  (Vitality) have  not accepted a claim under his 
income protection policy. 
Background
Mr H has a policy of income protection insurance which  pays  him benefit if hes unable to 
perform the duties of his occupation as a technical  analyst. Mr H would receive a proportion 
of the benefit after six months  of disability and full benefit after 12 months. These periods are 
known as deferred periods. 
In 2016 Mr H experienced stress  at work. He was signed off work  from 23 March 2017  as a 
result of anxiety and depression. In May 2017 Mr H was made redundant. After six months 
of being signed off work by his general  practitioner  (GP)  Mr H claimed under his policy. 
Vitality asked Mr Hs GP for evidence and decided not to accept Mr Hs claim. They  said 
there wasnt enough medical  evidence to demonstrate Mr H was unable  to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation. Mr H was suffering from work related  
stress that was specific to his employer and his redundancy, but could work  as a technical  
analyst for another employer. Vitality  added that Mr H was seeking employment and at the 
end of the deferred period  Mr H was well and wished to come off his medication. 
Mr H was unhappy with Vitalitys decision. He said he continued to suffer from anxiety, 
depression and poor concentration so brought a complaint  to this service.  Our investigator 
considered all the evidence and said Vitality  should meet  Mr Hs claim. She noted the 
evidence available  supported Mr Hs claim.  He had been given fit notes by his GP 
throughout the first six month deferred  period and beyond, received anti-depressant 
medication and been  referred for cognitive  behavioural therapy (CBT).  The investigator felt 
Vitality had the opportunity to get further  medical evidence,  but had chosen not to.
Vitality didnt agree with the investigators  opinion. They said Mr H had experienced 
problems related to a restructure and redundancy which related to his employer. Vitality 
obtained Mr Hs GP records and noted  he hadnt had face to face meetings with a medical  
consultant in July or August 2017. On 20 September  2017, days before the end of the first 
deferred period,  Mr H reported to his GP he was well and ready to stop taking his anti-
depressant medication.  Vitality noted  Mr H was given fit notes until March 2018 without any 
consultations. Finally, Vitality said Mr H was receiving job seekers allowance  (JSA), which 
required him to be available for work.
Our investigation so far
Our investigator reviewed  the additional medical  evidence provided, but still felt Mr Hs claim 
should be met. She provided evidence Mr H received Employment and Support Allowance 
(ESA) rather  than JSA and said she was satisfied Mr H had provided evidence he was 
suffering from anxiety and depression throughout the relevant period.  Vitallity  asked for a 
final decision, so the case was been passed  to me. They  said fit notes do not demonstrate 
Mr H met the policy definition of incapacity and Mr H had been on low dose medication  so 
could still have worked for another employer. I issued my provisional decision on 3 March 
2020. In it I said, 
Ref: DRN66059912To decide whether  Vitality have acted reasonably in not meeting Mr Hs claim I need to 
consider whether he meets  the definition of incapacity set out in his policy.  The relevant 
definition is set out below:
 
A standard definition  means that illness or injury makes you unable  to perform the material 
and substantial duties  of your own occupation. These are the duties that are normally 
needed to do your own occupation  and that cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you 
or your employer. To meet this definition, you must also not be working in any other 
occupation for payment or profit.
Mr Hs occupation when  he became ill was technical  analyst,  so benefit is payable if hes 
unable to perform the material  and substantial  duties  of this occupation. Im not looking at 
whether Mr H can work as a technical  analyst for his former employer, but whether he can 
perform the generic role. 
It is clear Mr H has suffered from anxiety and depression for some time.  He first consulted 
his GP in November 2016 with work related stress  and in February 2017 he reported his 
symptoms were much worse and he started  to take anti-depressant medication. CBT was 
due to take place the following week. Fit notes were  issued from March 2017.  Below  is a 
summary of GP entries during the deferred  period in 2017 (not including  fit notes):
23 March  depression  improving  especially after holiday but feeling it again.  Has been 
made redundant. Requested note as feeling very under pressure at work.
5 April  still far too anxious to return to work.
1 June  managing well on anti-depressant medication. Taken redundancy so feels  less 
pressure now but still tired,  tension headache and tingling in fingers and toes. Suggested 
increasing the anti-depressant dose but Mr H not keen. 
22 June  needs extension to sick note.  Plans  to look for employment  in the near future.  
Discussed sick note provision and implications if seeking alternative employment.
26 July  telephone review when  Mr H asked  to increase his medication.
30 August  telephone review. Mr H hadnt  really  stuck to the increased dose. He was 
feeling OK, but still very tired. Mr H had joined walking and cycling clubs  which helped his 
physical and mental health. Stay with lower dose anti-depressant medication. 
20 September Depression medication  review wishes to stop medication feels well currently 
and readyis looking  for another  job. Mr H was given  advice about  gradually reducing his 
medication over the next month.  
When Mr H submitted his claim Vitality asked a company to complete a telephone interview 
with Mr H on their behalf. The call took place in November 2017. Mr H explained  hed found  
the increased workload  when colleagues  left his old employer and the threat of redundancy 
stressful, He had problems with attention and concentration  and had CBT around  March 
2017. When asked  how he filled his day Mr H said he was looking for another  job and doing 
little jobs around  the house.
Taking all of the evidence in to account  I dont  consider Mr H meets the policy definition of 
incapacity. I appreciate  hes been  given fit notes throughout  the deferred period, and these 
Ref: DRN66059913have been sufficient to support a claim for ESA, but on their own they dont demonstrate Mr 
H meets the policy definition of incapacity. During  the deferred  period theres  no indication of 
how Mr Hs condition and symptoms prevent him from performing his occupation.  
Importantly, at the end of the deferred period  Mr H was feeling  well and wished to come off 
his medication.
Im aware Mr H says coming off medication didnt  go well so have looked at his medical  
records after the end of the first six month  deferred  period. Having done so, I see Mr H was 
issued with fit notes,  but didnt  see a GP or receive  anti-depressant medication until March 
2018. I consider  this evidence supports the conclusion that at the end of the six month 
deferred period  Mr H didnt meet the definition of incapacity. 
Whilst Im sympathetic to the position  Mr H finds himself in I consider Vitality  has assessed 
his claim reasonably and in line with the terms of his policy. 
Vitality acknowledged  my provisional  decision, but had no further comment to make.  Mr H 
didnt accept it. He said I hadnt taken in to account his mental health and the disabling  
effects and human cost of mental health  on him. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence,  arguments and recent representations to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
I understand how disappointing my provisional decision must have been for Mr H, especially 
as the investigators  who considered his complaint upheld it. Id like to assure him Ive taken 
all the evidence in to account,  including  the impact of his mental  health on him. Ive also re-
reviewed the medical evidence. After doing  so, Im satisfied Mr H did not meet the policy  
definition of incapacity at the end of the deferred  period,  for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6605991