K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about The Prudential Assurance  Company  Limited (Prudential). Shes 
unhappy with how Prudential settled the death benefits available under her late fathers  
personal pension  policy and has concerns about Prudentials decision making process.
background
Miss B has solicitors  acting on her behalf so my references to Miss B should be understood 
to include her solicitors.
Having carried out its investigation into the death  benefits available  under her late fathers 
pension and whod receive this, Prudential  wrote to Miss B with its decision. It explained that 
a lump sum death  benefit of £22,343.66 was available, payable  at its discretion. Prudential 
said that in exercising its discretion it had decided to pay 25% of the lump sum death benefit  
to Miss B, with the rest going to Miss Bs late fathers  partner.
Miss B raised concerns  about Prudentials decision.  But Prudential  explained that in line with 
the Scheme Rules its duty was to choose who received  the lump  sum death benefit available 
under her late fathers  policy. 
Miss B remained unhappy with Prudentials response. She said she noted Prudential had 
discretion over who received her late fathers  death benefit and that it had decided to appoint  
her 25% share of this based  on what  it had described as full written factual evidence. But 
she also said that as the administrator of her late fathers estate she was entitled to a copy  of 
the evidence Prudential had relied on to ensure a fair decision had been made.
Prudential responded to Miss B and in summary said:
the death benefits available  under  the late Mr Bs pension arrangement didnt form 
part of his estate  so Miss B wasnt entitled  to a copy of the evidence it had been 
provided with or relied on
it had gathered sufficient evidence to make the decision it had. Specifically it had 
sought evidence  of financial dependency  and interdependency  on Mr B
the Scheme  Rules  required Prudential to choose whod receive the lump sum death 
benefit and it hadnt taken  its decision lightly
it had acted fairly and rationally and was satisfied it had made  the correct  decision
Miss B later raised a formal complaint about Prudentials  decision. Prudential provided its 
final response on the matter and repeated  that it wasnt able to provide Miss B with the 
evidence it relied  on to settle  the death  benefits under her late fathers pension.
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Miss B referred her complaint  to this service.  One of our 
investigators considered  the matter and said she didnt think  Prudential  had done anything 
wrong in the circumstances.  
Miss B disagreed with our investigator  and in summary she said:
she accepted  Prudential  had discretion under  which  it could decide  how to distribute 
funds but she wanted to know the basis of this decision  to be satisfied it was 
reasonable
Ref: DRN63937892she wanted to know how Prudential had reached its decision and for it to disclose 
any evidence relating to this
she was concerned the evidence Prudential had relied on might  be fabricated  or 
untrue
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issue  central to this complaint. That is to 
say, whether Prudential  was entitled  to exercise  discretion in deciding to whom the late Mr 
Bs death benefit would  be paid. And if so, did it exercise its discretion appropriately.
The applicable  Scheme  Rules set out that Prudential can decide to whom  death  benefits will 
be paid. Specifically the rules say:
4. BENEFITS ON DEATH  ()
the Scheme Administrator may pay all or some of the Member's  Fund as a lump sum to or 
for the benefit  of any one or more of the following in such  proportions  as the Scheme 
Administrator decides:
(i)any person, charity,  association, club, society or other  body (including  trustees  of any 
trust whether  discretionary  or otherwise) whose name  the Member has notified to 
the Scheme Administrator in writing  prior to the date of the Members  death;
(ii)the Members surviving spouse or Civil Partner  and any children and remoter issue of 
any of them;
(iii)the Member's parents  and grandparents;
(iv)the Members Dependants ()
Regarding what  is meant  by Dependant the Scheme Rules  say:
Dependant means:
(a) a person who was the Members spouse  or Civil Partner at the date of the Member's  
death;
(b) a person who was the Members spouse  or Civil Partner when the Member first became 
entitled to a pension under the Scheme;
(c) the Member's Child, or
(d) a person who, in the opinion of the Scheme Administrator,  at the date of the Member's 
death:
        (i) was financially dependent on the Member;
        (ii) had a financial relationship with the Member  that was one of mutual  dependence, or
    
(iii) was dependent on the Member  because of physical or mental impairment.
Ref: DRN63937893Based on the above Im satisfied Prudential  was acting in line with the Scheme Rules  in 
using its discretion to pay death benefits  to whomever  it decided was a rightful  recipient.  
Turning now to whether  Prudential  took reasonable steps in using its discretion to pay the 
death benefit. 
Prudential considered Miss B and the late Mr Bs partner as potential  beneficiaries. It did this 
having reviewed  the documentation and information  it was provided with from the relevant 
parties. And it was on the basis of what this evidence showed that Prudential  determined the 
level of financial dependency or interdependency of Miss B and the late Mr Bs partner  in 
order to decide  what proportion of the death  benefit  payment should be allocated to whom.  
As Prudentials letter  to Miss B explained:
We do not take this decision lightly, its important that we carry out a full and detailed  fact 
find before  we consider each claim () we want to make sure we have gathered  all relevant  
information to enable us to make  an informed decision ()
I consider that it was firstly reasonable for Prudential to identify the death benefit beneficiary 
on the basis of which potential beneficiary  (if any) was financially dependent on the late Mr 
B. And secondly,  that the evidence from Mr Bs late partner and Miss B that they met this 
test was reasonably  applied  by Prudential in reaching its decision about the level of payment 
paid.
I note that Prudentials letter to Miss B of 24 April 2018 outlined  the type documentary  
evidence it could require  upon which it would base any decision it made about the payment 
of the death benefit. So Im unable to agree  that Prudential wasnt  sufficiently transparent 
about its process to determine who received the death benefit.
Miss B considers that because shes the administrator of her late father, Mr Bs estate that 
shes entitled to see the evidence Prudential  relied on to pay out the death benefit. Im 
unable to agree. Miss Bs fathers pension was held under trust and this meant  that the 
death benefits payable from it fell outside  his estate. So it wasnt  Miss Bs role to decide 
where the death benefits were paid and on what basis.  This was Prudentials  responsibility. 
And as such it was for Prudential to satisfy itself who, based on the available  evidence, were  
the rightful beneficiaries and to what extent.  Prudential wasnt  and isnt required to disclose 
the evidence it received  from the late Mr Bs partner  to determine her death benefit  
entitlement. As well as not having to share evidence with Miss B, Prudential also isnt 
obligated to communicate its reasons for the decision it made. 
Im also mindful that other than Miss Bs expression  of concern that Prudential may have 
based its decision on fabricated  evidence,  I havent seen anything to suggest that Prudential 
has been provided with persuasive  evidence to support  Miss Bs claim that the death benefit 
may have  been  wrongly paid to her late fathers partner.
I recognise that Miss B may feel very strongly  that Prudential  has made the wrong  decision 
but I cannot second-guess its decision or substitute  my own finding as to who the death 
benefit payment  should be made  to and by how much. Prudential is entitled under the 
Scheme Rules to make that decision and it is not for me to review  that decision.  
I do have sympathy for Miss B. Im sure dealing with this complaint which  stems from her 
father sadly passing away hasnt been easy. However Im satisfied Prudential  could 
distribute the late Mr Bs death benefit  using its discretion. And that discretion gives  
Ref: DRN63937894Prudential the freedom to decide  what should  be done in a particular situation. Im satisfied 
Prudential has used  its discretion here in a fair and reasonable  way. And that its not 
obligated to disclose the evidence it relied on or the specific reasons for its decision. So it 
follows that I dont  think Prudential has done anything wrong regarding the issues  Miss B 
has raised. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6393789