K821x#15Complaint
Mrs N is seeking to recover £55,000  from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which was stolen from her
bank account  as a result of a third-party  scam.
Background
Mrs N made  a payment  of £55,000 on the 20 February 2019  to T, an international money
exchange provider.
In February 2019  Mrs N, and her husband Mr N, searched online for the possibility of an
investment. Mrs N explained that they had money  remaining from the recent sale of their
house, and were looking to invest this. But she had very limited investment experience. They
submitted an online  form and were contacted by what  they thought was a genuine
investment company Ill call P. Unfortunately for Mr N and Mrs N they were in fact speaking
with fraudsters, who cloned the genuine  firm P. And Mrs N was persuaded to invest  in what
she thought was an investment bond,  with an annual  return of 3.9%,  for an internationally
renowned business.
After transferring £55,000 in branch on the 20 February 2019 Mrs N was told by P that shed
receive a bond  certificate within 10 working days.  On not receiving the certificate Mr N and 
Mrs N made  efforts  to contact the fraudsters   which were unfortunately unsuccessful  and 
on the 19 March  2019 Mr N found  and contacted  the main office number of the genuine  
investment firm where he was advised  that unfortunately  Mrs N had been the victim of a 
scam. On learning this, Mrs N contacted HSBC to complain.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ns complaint and thought  that HSBC  should have identified
the transaction as unusual in particular because of the transfer  going  to T. And if they had
done so, and asked appropriate probing  questions of Mrs N the scam would have been
identified, and Mrs N wouldnt have made the payment.  Our investigator recommended  that
Mrs N was refunded the full amount  plus 8% interest.
HSBC didnt accept  our investigators  conclusions. And said in summary:
Mrs N didnt contact the bank until the 19 March  2019, however  the bond  certificate
should have arrived  on the 1 March  2019.
The ombudsman is in breach of DISP  3.6.4 in summarising our considerations.
Theres a recent  high Court decision  Phillipp  which sets out the legal duties
against which the banks actions should  be measured in cases  of this nature. Phillipp 
advises that there is no legal obligation  for the bank to second guess its customers .
Its not clear what conversations took place in the branch between Mrs N and the
branch staff.
On attending  the branch Mrs N and Mr N provided a copy of the brochure  to the
branch staff.  For this reason its understandable  that branch  staff didnt have any
concerns. If Mrs N had been questioned further  then its likely she would have 
pointed to the brochure and the fact P is an FCA regulated firm.
Theres no evidence that Mrs N isnt knowledgeable about investments.
Ref: DRN64464082The payment  isnt out of character or unusual for Mrs N. And it isnt surprising that P
would take payment via T considering theyre an international company.
Customers should be expected to carry out reasonable checks and due diligence 
Mrs N was in the best position to determine if she should  have  invested  in P.
Theres no basis for 8% interest being awarded.
As HSBC didnt accept  our investigators conclusions the case was referred to me for a 
decision. 
I reviewed Mrs Ns complaint and came to a slightly different conclusion  to our investigator.  I 
wrote to HSBC and Mrs N to explain my outcome and ask for further comments. 
Mr N responded on behalf  of Mrs N and accepted  my provisional decision. He wanted to 
confirm that immediately following Mrs N failing to receive the bond  certificate  on day 10, he 
tried to speak to the fraudsters and made contact with the main office number of the 
genuine P very soon after. He also highlighted that Mrs N had never  transferred such a large 
payment and the international  nature  of it was unusual. 
HSBC didnt accept  my provisional decision.  In response they said:
They dont accept  Mrs N or Mr N, on behalf  of Mr N, would have acted any differently 
even if the bank had intervened. 
Its unrealistic  to think so many things could  have been revealed  after questioning in 
the single  branch  visit. The only evidence  available to the bank  the brochure and a 
realistic return  rate  indicated it was a legitimate transaction. 
The bank  doesnt accept that the first payment being made to a currency  exchange 
provider should  have raised concerns. The bank would have been reassured  by the 
brochure and realistic return. And the fact that money  exchange services  can be 
legitimately used  for currency exchange. 
It was a sophisticated, cloned company with a professional brochure  using a 
money exchange service and making  an international payment (when the genuine P 
is an international company) wouldnt have been  enough to raise concerns. 
Mrs N was investing a significant sum, and it was her responsibility to obtain  
appropriate professional advice and to carry out sufficient research. 
Mrs N didnt take steps to verify she was dealing with the genuine P.
The bank  doesnt agree that 8% interest  is reasonable. This rate is not reflective of 
the interest Mrs N would have achieved on safe investments.
As HSBC didnt accept  my provisional  decision Ive reconsidered my conclusions.  
Ref: DRN64464083My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive not changed the 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision.  And Ill explain why below. 
In my provisional decision I said:
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs N was the victim of a
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So, although
she didnt intend  the money to go to the scammers,  under  the Payment Services
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs N is presumed liable for
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions like this, those steps  may include following the Banking Protocol
where appropriate.
Im aware that HSBC  considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of
it in terms of identifying  payments  that might indicate  a consumer is at risk of financial harm;
and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful that the
courts have  interpreted  Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are
different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take account of
regulatory and industry  standards  beyond  the narrow legal duties considered  in that and
other court cases.
Im also aware of the recent Phillipp  judgment where  the judge  took a different view about
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And
notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what
we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account  not
just the law, but also regulators rules  and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what  I
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
The Banking Protocol  is aimed at customers  who are in the process of being  defrauded to
prevent their victimisation and loss of funds. The first question a bank needs to consider
Ref: DRN64464084when thinking  about the possibility a customer may be the victim of fraud  is whether the
transaction is unusual  for the customer.  Im satisfied, based on a number of factors, that the
transaction was unusual  for Mrs N. I say this firstly  based on the large size of the transaction
 £55,000  and the fact it was to a new payee.  I think even without any other factors  Id
expect HSBC to have asked further questions about the nature of the transaction. But, the
primary factor I think should  have  raised concerns with HSBC  is the destination of the
payment. The payment  was sent to an international money transfer provider, Ill call T. As
HSBC are aware this is a common  method  of payment for facilitating  fraud.
HSBC havent  provided any evidence of conversations  which  took place in the branch at the
time of the transaction. Ive thought about whether Id expect HSBC  to have asked Mrs N
questions at the time of the bank  transfer  and for the reasons Ive outlined above Im
satisfied they should.
Mrs N explained that on visiting the branch she was asked what the payment was for  and
she advised HSBC  it was an investment bond  with P. But she wasnt asked any further
questions. Ive thought  about what would have  happened if HSBC  had probed further. Ive
taken on board HSBCs  comments about  the convincing  nature of the scam. And I agree
with them  here  the scam was convincing.  Mrs N was provided with a professional  brochure
and a realistic return on an investment with an internationally renowned business. I accept
that none of these factors would have raised  concerns  for HSBC when asking Mrs N more
questions about  her reasons for making the payment. However,  Id expect HSBC to have
significant concerns  about the fact the payment was being made to T. Mrs N wasnt given a
cover story, therefore Im confident shed have advised HSBC  about how she found out
about the investment company  and was provided with the bank details to make  the
transfer. Mrs N wasnt  given  any explanation for why the transfer  would be made to T.
Im satisfied that It seems  likely if HSBC had asked Mrs N questions about why she was
making a payment to T, when P was registered in the UK and the investment bond was for a
UK based company, the bank would have identified concerns  about  the legitimacy of the
payment. And, but for HSBCs failure  to highlight this to Mrs N  in an appropriate and
sensitive way  the scam  would probably  not have succeeded.
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if HSBC have highlighted the unusual
nature of the payment  to T are reinforced by Mr N and Mrs Ns actions  after making the
£55,000 payment.  Mrs N expected to receive a bond certificate within 10 days   soon after
this hadnt arrived  Mr N attempted to contact the fraudsters and on being  unable to get hold
of them,  on the 19 March 2019  he found and contacted the main  office  number of the
genuine investment  firm. At which point he was advised that Mrs N had been  the victim of a
scam. Mr N made contact with HSBC,  on Mrs Ns behalf, soon  after this. But by then it was
too late  the funds  had been  removed from the scammers account with T. However,  if
HSBC had correctly  highlighted  the concern of making  the payment to T it seems  likely
Mrs N would have carried out more research  and as she did on the 19 March  2019 
discovered that she wasnt dealing with the genuine  investment  company. The fraud would
have failed; and Mrs N would not have lost £55,000.
In light of my conclusions above,  it isnt necessary in this case  to consider whether the bank
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the payee
bank before they were irretrievably removed  by the scammers. But for completeness,  Ive
seen evidence that HSBC contacted T within the required time frame.  However,
unfortunately by this point no funds remained.
Ref: DRN64464085Ive also considered whether Mrs N should  bear some  responsibility by way of contributory
negligence. However, its clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment,
she had no idea she was subject to a scam and wasnt aware of the consequences of her
actions. HSBC have  queried whether Mrs N carried out any research on P or the money
exchange service  T before making  the payment to them.  Mrs N has explained  that Mr N
carried out most of the online research, however she did read through  the paperwork
provided and as HSBC  themselves accept the investment opportunity  looked  genuine and
convincing. And I wouldnt  expect Mrs N to be aware that making a payment to T might  be
concerning, or an indication of a scam. Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on
this occasion,  she was simply the unwitting  and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. Mrs N
wasnt an experienced investigator and the bank was the professional  in financial matters.
HSBC responded  to our investigators  view with a number of additional points, including  the
fact that the view summarised  our relevant considerations, and is a breach of DISP 3.6.4. Im
mindful however  that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced the relevant rules,  codes
of practice and good industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions, both to HSBC
and published  on our website.
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mrs N for
the loss she suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate her for
being deprived of the money  she lost. Im satisfied that Mrs N has been deprived of these
funds, including  the possibility of using  the funds for other genuine  investments.
I also think its appropriate to make an award  of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience
Mrs N has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that her loss was ultimately
caused by the actions  of the fraudsters  and it was an authorised transaction, but HSBC
could ultimately have prevented the payments.
Provisional decision response:
HSBC responded  with a number of points  to my provisional decision. Firstly they argued  that 
there wasnt anything  for the bank to be concerned about when processing the disputed 
payment   they highlighted that there was a professional brochure and Mrs N was due to 
receive a realistic return rate.
I explained in my provisional decision  that although I agree initially  because  of the 
professional nature of the brochure and realistic return rate there wasnt anything for HSBC  
to be concerned about once the bank  identified that the payment was going to T they should 
have been considered the possibility of a scam.  As I explained in my provisional  decision Im 
satisfied that the payment being  made  to a money exchange service should have raised 
fraud concerns with the bank. HSBC  have explained that a money exchange  service  can be 
legitimately used for currency exchange  which of course is the case. But Ive no reason to 
think Mrs N wouldnt  have been  open  and honest with HSBC  had they asked her appropriate 
questions about  why the payment was going  to T. And considering, as HSBC  accept, Mrs N 
had a brochure for an investment I think it was clear Mrs N wasnt  making  this payment as a 
form of currency exchange. Instead she was requested  by the fraudsters to send the 
payment to T for an investment which Im satisfied  HSBC,  as the experts  in scams and 
financial crime, should have found  very suspicious. Id expect them to be concerned  not just 
because of the unusual destination  of the payment, but also the large size and that Mrs N 
hadnt made any payments to the payee before. 
Ref: DRN64464086Ive considered HSBCs  further argument that they dont accept Mrs N would have acted any 
differently even if the bank had intervened. But Im afraid I dont agree here. As I explained in 
my provisional decision the first concerns Mr N had, on behalf of both himself  and Mrs N, 
were when they didnt  receive the bond  certificate  within 10 working days of making the 
payments. When Mrs N didnt receive her bond  certificate Mr N tried to contact the 
fraudsters and phoned the main  office  number for the genuine P soon after. Im satisfied that 
if HSBC had identified  the surprising nature of the payment destination  and raised the 
possibility of an investment scam with Mrs N, along  with advice on next steps, Mr N would 
have likely contacted  the genuine P much  sooner  and discovered Mrs N was being 
scammed before making the payment. 
HSBC have also argued that Mrs N failed to carry out due diligence, it was her responsibility  
to obtain appropriate professional advice and carry out sufficient  research. And Mrs N didnt 
take steps to verify she was dealing with the genuine P. Ive reconsidered HSBCs argument 
about the level of due diligence Mrs N carried out, and whether she should bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence.  I accept that Mrs N didnt contact the 
genuine P before making the scam payment. However I wouldnt necessarily expect her to 
do so in the circumstances. And Ill explain why. As HSBC  themselves have highlighted  the 
brochure Mrs N had been provided  with was professional and she thought Mr N  who as I 
explained before  was in contact with the fraudsters - was dealing with an internationally 
renowned company. The banks argued  that there  were likely clues  in Mr Ns conversations  
with the scammers  that he wasnt dealing with the genuine company, however  its important  
for me to consider  that both Mr N and Mrs N were inexperienced investors  whereas HSBC  
are the professional in financial matters and experts in scams.  Therefore, I wouldnt 
necessarily expect Mr N or Mrs N to identify these concerns  in the same  way a bank  would. 
Id argue that if HSBC had asked further appropriate questions,  as Id have expected them  to 
do in branch, any clues highlighting the possibility of a scam  in conversations  between  Mr N 
and the scammers  would likely have been picked up by the bank.  
HSBC have suggested that 8% is a punitive  rate of interest that isnt fair to apply in the 
circumstances of this complaint. They  say this will result in Mrs N being in a better position to 
the banks detriment. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Im not suggesting that Mrs N 
would have otherwise invested and achieved a return of 8%. But, given the average  costs of 
borrowing over time,  it has long been our approach that this is a suitable rate to compensate  
for being deprived of the funds and I remain satisfied it is fair to apply it in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
In conclusion, Ive considered the new arguments  presented by HSBC  but Im satisfied that 
the bank should have  had significant concerns about the payment going to T, warranting 
further questions. And it seems likely if the bank  had asked Mrs N further  questions  about 
the payment going to T  considering P was registered in the UK and the investment bond 
was for a UK company   theyd have advised  Mrs N to carry out further research before 
making the payment, including contacting the genuine P. But for HSBCs failure to highlight  
this to Mrs N, the scam would likely  not have succeeded. 
Ref: DRN64464087My final decision
My final decision is I direct HSBC UK Plc to:
-Refund Mrs N £55,000  plus 8% interest from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement.
-Pay Mrs N £300 compensation.
Any tax lawfully due on the interest  may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction  certificate  to Mrs N so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6446408