K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc defaulted  his account unfairly when he was on a 
payment holiday  and this affected  his credit file so its hard for him to get credit.
background
Mr K had a credit  card with Santander. He contacted  Santander in 2014 because  he was 
suffering from financial difficulties. Santander agreed to give him a six month payment 
holiday with no interest to help him manage  his situation. But part way through  the payment 
holiday he noticed his credit card disappeared from his account  and when he contacted 
Santander it told him the debt had been written off. Mr K then received a default notice and 
when he contacted the bank it told him the default  would be applied if he didnt pay off the 
debt regardless of the payment holiday.  He wasnt  able to pay off the debt at that time and a 
default was recorded which later appeared  on his credit file. The debt was subsequently sold 
on to a debt collection  agency and the default  now appears twice on Mr Ks credit record.
Mr K complained to Santander about this. He said he wouldnt have taken  the payment 
holiday if hed known  it would result in a default. But he didnt get a response from Santander 
for some time. When he heard back from Santander, it apologised for poor complaint 
handling and an issue with the way it recorded  his address and offered £250 as a goodwill 
gesture by way of apology for this. But it didnt uphold his complaint about  the default.  So he 
came to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but she didnt think  it should be upheld  so Mr K 
asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  succeed  and Ill explain why. 
When Mr K asked  for the payment holiday,  he was struggling to manage his finances so he 
needed the payment holiday to sort things out. Unfortunately, because  of the passage of 
time, the call he made to arrange the payment holiday is no longer available.  So I cant  be 
sure what  he was told about the consequences  of the payment holiday. However, when he 
found out about the risk of default,  he did mention paying off the balance to avoid default but 
this didnt happen. So based on his financial  situation at the time, I think  hed have taken  the 
payment holiday  in any event. As the default was applied in accordance with process after 
several months of missed payments, I dont think Santander was wrong  to apply it. As the 
debt was sold on, the default appeared twice on Mr Ks file but Im satisfied that this reflected 
just one default. 
Mr Ks raised concerns about the information he was given about the account. In particular 
when the credit card was stopped and he was told the balance  had been written off. He says 
he understood the balance was no longer owed. But from Santanders perspective, while it 
wasnt pursuing him for payment, the defaulted  balance remained on his credit file because it 
hadnt been paid. I can understand his confusion, but businesses are obliged  to provide 
accurate information  for credit reference agencies which reflect the way a persons managed 
their account. While Santander couldve been clearer about  its process,  I dont think Mr K 
was in a position to pay off the card at the time so I dont think  he wouldve acted differently if 
Ref: DRN65739632the consequences had been clearer. I understand hes now cleared the debt so this should 
be reflected on his credit file.
Santanders accepted it failed to update  Mr Ks address and that its customer  service  wasnt  
up to the standard it would expect when  he contacted it in 2018. I think  its offer of £250 for 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573963