K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  
y Reaseguros, S.A. handled  his claims for assistance  when  he fell ill abroad.
In this decision Ill use Mapfre to include its assistance agents.  
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold the complaint, and I include an extract  here:
Mr W had a policy with Mapfre  to cover him for an extended trip abroad. His travel dates 
were between November  2017 and June  2018. While away  he contacted Mapfre because  he 
needed treatment  for a few different medical  problems, including  recurrent  diarrhoea.  For his 
second claim Mapfre said the policy might be void although after a few days  it said it did 
have cover. In the meantime Mr W had taken out a policy with a different insurer.
Sadly, in December 2017 Mr Ws father died and Mr W returned to the UK for the funeral. 
When he resumed his trip abroad  he became  ill, again with diarrhoea as well as flu type 
symptoms and another unrelated condition.  This time Mapfre said that its medical panel was 
concerned about  his health and the panel  recommended he cut short  (curtail) his trip and 
return to the UK. Mapfre said that it then wouldnt provide any further cover under the policy.  
It later told him that his return trip to the UK for the funeral also wasnt covered. 
Mr W complained  about the service  hed received and that Mapfre hadnt  paid his claim. In 
its May 2018  final response letter Mapfre  said that it would cover  50% of his flight costs - his 
flight to the UK - as its policy wasnt entirely  clear. It wouldnt cover the return  leg of the flight  
as it said this wasnt covered. It offered him £400  compensation for poor service.  Mapfre  
said it would  consider any medical  bills for further treatment in the remaining part of his trip, 
as it said it wouldnt enforce the curtailment. 
Mr W came  to us. He said Mapfres handling  of his claims had ruined his trip. It was aware 
both of his cancer  diagnosis  and his bereavement. He thought it should pay a significant 
five-figure sum in compensation. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He said that as Mapfre  accepted its policy 
wasnt clear it should  pay the full return  flight to the UK for Mr Ws fathers funeral. Mapfre 
agreed to do this. But our adjudicator thought £400 compensation was fair. 
Mr W didnt agree and, at the very least, wanted  Mapfre to pay the amount  hed had to pay 
for another  insurance  policy to cover his trip (just under £345). Mapfre  didnt agree to this, 
and the complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to read about  Mr Ws ill-health while  abroad and that he also lost his father. I need  
to decide whether Mapfre has made  a reasonable offer to resolve  his complaint. Having 
Ref: DRN60410922done so, I think  it should  pay him the cost of his replacement insurance  policy, in addition  to 
the offers it made for his return flight and £400  compensation.
the decline of the early  December 2017  claim
At the start of his trip I understand that Mr W had had one unrelated  claim for a headache. 
Towards the end of November 2017  Mr W had symptoms including  diarrhoea and was 
admitted to hospital  for tests  for a couple of nights. Mapfre asked for medical reports  and 
also asked Mr W some questions about  how long hed been in the UK before hed bought 
the policy. 
Mapfre then told Mr W that his policy  might  be void  because hed not lived in the UK for six 
out of the twelve  months before hed bought the policy. Mr W strongly argued hed answered 
any question about this with reasonable care during  the several calls hed had with Mapfre 
when buying the policy. He said hed also told it about  his existing medical  conditions  
including a cancer diagnosis. He pointed  out that Mapfre  had insured his previous trip and 
due to claims had known about  his earlier travel dates. After  looking into the issue  Mapfre  
agreed there  were  no grounds to decline the claim,  and it confirmed the cover after a few 
days.  
Mapfre accepts that any concerns  about residency should have been raised at the time of 
the first claim for the headache. Also, it accepts its sales  questions around residency could 
have been clearer.  I think its handling of this issue caused Mr W real distress.  He had to wait 
in hospital for a day thinking Mapfre was going to guarantee  the payment for his medical 
expenses. When  Mapfre said it wouldnt guarantee the payment he had to pay the expenses 
himself and then claim them back.  He didnt receive  a call back from a manager, as 
requested. When Mapfre did confirm cover I dont  think it did anything at the time to 
acknowledge this distress  or to say sorry to Mr W. 
the replacement  policy
Mr W says he had no alternative but to take out replacement travel insurance, given 
Mapfres decision to decline the early December 2017 claim. He said it took many calls to 
the UK, as well as trawling the internet, to find this policy because  hed already travelled.  
Also, he had existing  medical conditions, not all of which were covered under the new policy. 
Ive considered whether Mr W was told emphatically  that the policy  was void during the 
telephone call of 1 December 2017. Ive listened to that call. I dont think Mapfre did confirm 
the policy was void, as the call handler  S did explain  that the decision would be made by 
the underwriters.  But there cant be any dispute that Mr W was told that he didnt meet  the 
residency requirements  because at the time Mr W applied  for the policy  hed not spent six 
out of the previous twelve months in the UK. So I think hed reasonably thought he wouldnt 
have any cover under the policy.
Mr W explained very clearly how upset he was about this. Hed been waiting seven hours at 
the hospital for Mapfre to guarantee the payment to the hospital. Mapfres  call handler said 
he might  need to pay and claim back the expenses, which Mr W did. 
Mapfre later made a decision to cover  Mr Ws claim, and to continue  the policy.  But Mr W did 
warn Mapfre  in his emails that he felt he had no option but to get cover elsewhere. Ive 
asked for a copy of the replacement policy, which Mr W has provided to us. Our adjudicator 
will send a copy to Mapfre with this decision.  
Ref: DRN60410923I can see that Mr W took out the policy to cover him from 5 December 2017. Ive asked 
Mapfre the date it confirmed it would cover  the claim (and continue to provide  cover the 
policy) and this was three days later on 8 December 2017.  
I think Mr W felt genuinely  panicked about  having no travel  insurance. Although a decision 
hadnt been finalised he knew that hed not spent six out of the previous twelve  months in 
the UK, so I can see why he thought  the outcome was going to be that the policy  was void. 
He warned Mapfre he felt he had not option  but to take out alternative cover, to protect 
himself given his existing medical conditions and because he was already abroad. 
Mr W has shown  that the policy he bought  covered him to the end date of his trip of 22 June 
2018. It cost him £344.74. He didnt have  any cooling off period under the policys  terms, 
because he was already travelling at the point  he took it out. So he wasnt entitled to any 
premium refund after Mapfre confirmed it would cover him and his claim. And he had to take 
the time and trouble to source the policy in the UK while already abroad.  
Even if Mr W had waited,  Mapfre later withdrew  cover under its policy, so he would always 
have needed a replacement policy. Im not convinced by Mapfres  decision to withdraw 
cover. Mapfre has explained  it had concerns for Mr Ws health, and that its policy  says it 
wont cover  further claims if a policy holder doesnt follow  its advice and return to their home 
area. Mapfre could have asked Mr W to authorise  treatment  in advance, as it did for follow-
up appointments. Even though I understand its policy terms, I dont think it was fair to 
withdraw cover altogether. 
Since its decision I note Mapfre has said it would, in fact, cover any reasonable medical  
claims under the policy, But that was too late for Mr W, who had already bought replacement 
travel insurance cover. Mr W says he made  three medical claims under the replacement  
policy in the period after Mapfre withdrew  cover. Mr W has given us the amount in local 
currency, which I understand would be approximately £330 (using 2018 exchange rates). 
Overall, I think Mapfre put Mr W in a very difficult  position, when he genuinely thought there 
was nothing he could  do but to arrange alternative  travel insurance. I think its fair for Mapfre 
to pay that replacement policy premium of £344.84, plus 8% simple interest from 
5 December 2017 until the date it pays him. 
the return flight to the UK
Im sorry  to hear that Mr Ws father died while he was away.  Mapfre has already 
acknowledged its policy wasnt  clear  about the cover available  for a home trip to the UK for 
the funeral and back again. Mr W also said he believed from Mapfres  assistance staff that 
the cost of that flight would be covered. 
Our adjudicator recommended  Mapfre pay the cost of the return flight, and Mapfre  has 
reasonably now offered  to do so. I think thats  fair, and I invite  Mr W to confirm the amount, 
he paid in sterling, as he paid for the flight in local currency. If it was on his credit  card he 
should ideally send a copy of the credit card statement, so that Mapfre refunds the correct  
amount. 
Ref: DRN60410924compensation
Ive said Mapfre should pay Mr W the balance of the return flight  to the UK and the cost of 
the replacement  policy.
Ive considered a fair level of compensation for distress and inconvenience. I should say that 
my awards are not intended  to punish the business. Rather I look at the impact  on the 
consumer and their individual circumstances. 
In this case, Mr W was unwell and suffered a bereavement while abroad.  For the reasons 
Ive explained  I think Mapfre caused  him some real distress and inconvenience, in the way it 
dealt with his claims  and in withdrawing cover. He was left waiting in hospital for a decision 
to be made,  and felt he had no option but to arrange  alternative  insurance. That took time 
and effort.  Mapfre confirmed it would  continue to cover him, but then withdraw  cover. 
I know Mr W has asked  for a significant amount of compensation, but I consider that £400 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W said Id not summarised events quite correctly.  As an example  he said that when 
Mapfre told him hed have to pay the hospital bill himself hed been  told he was welcome to 
try to claim it back  not then claim it back as Id said.  In the same call he was also told 
the policy was void, he wasnt insured  and that it was pointless  for a manager to call him 
because their decision was final. But Mr W didnt think this affected the big picture,  and 
importantly my decision that he had no choice but to get re-insured and so he should be 
compensated for that. He sent us a copy of his bank statement, showing that hed paid 
£1,288.16 for the return flight to the UK, for his fathers funeral.
Our adjudicator sent a copy of the statement to Mapfre, to confirm the amount Mr W had 
paid for the flight. Mapfre responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr W thinks I didnt  summarise the complaint quite correctly.  It was clear to me 
that Mr W felt he had no option but to take out insurance elsewhere,  and for the reasons Ive 
explained I think Mapfre caused him both financial loss and distress  and inconvenience. But 
the slight amendments  Mr Ws made to my summary dont change my findings, which I note 
Mapfre accepts. I confirm  those findings here. I uphold this complaint and I set out below the 
payments Mapfre must now make  to settle  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in both my provisional decision and in my final decision, 
I uphold this complaint.  I require Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. to pay to Mr W:
£1,288.16 being the cost of the December  2017 return flight  to the UK , together with 
simple interest* at 8% per year from the date of claim  until the date it pays  him; and 
Ref: DRN60410925£344.74, being the cost of the replacement policy,  together  with interest* of 8% per 
year from the date of claim until the date it pays him; and
£400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mapfre must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr W 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the £400 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6041092