K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) has unreasonably cancelled her life 
and critical illness policy in 2008.  She also says that Phoenix has continually refused to 
provide information  it holds  about  her, including responding unreasonably  to subject access 
requests.  
background
Miss L is now represented by a solicitor in bringing her complaint.  
Miss L took out her policy in February  1999 with Phoenix (then Scottish Mutual trading as 
Scottish Provident).  In late 1999, she sustained numerous back injuries  following a go-
karting accident. Though it was hoped  Miss L would make a full recovery,  she was sadly left 
with a number  of ongoing deficits. As a result, she could no longer continue working in her 
roles as a salesperson. 
A claim  was made to Phoenix the following year. Originally, Miss L wanted to pursue a 
critical illness claim, but no listed critical illness under the policy  met her circumstances. So, 
a mortgage payment protection claim was assessed. 
From 2002,  Phoenix  agreed to pay Miss L mortgage payment protection  benefit  of £500 per 
month on a reviewable  basis.  The policy terms provided payment once a policyholder had 
been suffering  a disability (as defined  by the policy)  for a period of twenty-six weeks or more. 
Miss Ls policy also included cover for own occupation TPD. The policy terms said that 
mortgage payment  protection was intended to provide  temporary benefit, but if the disability 
persisted in the long-term, then a total permanent disability claim may be pursued. The 
terms were such  that in the first 24 months  the policyholder would be measured  against his 
or her inability to perform their own occupation,  and at any time thereafter, the test would be 
the total and permanent inability to undertake any occupation. If valid,  Phoenix  would make 
a lump sum claim  payment of £73,815.  
No claim was pursued for TPD. Phoenixs  records note it was discussed with Miss L in 2003  
and 2004 at which time she was considering relocating abroad and had wanted to know if a 
future claim  would be valid if it was made overseas. Phoenix continued to seek  ongoing  
medical updates  regarding  Miss Ls health and ability to work. 
In 2006, the claim  payment was suspended. Phoenix asked Miss L for evidence  of her 
income (on the basis she had said she could not work). It also asked her to undergo an 
independent medical examination. This was because Miss L had said she was undertaking 
work with her partner  relating to his business. 
Miss L contacted this service in November 2006. She said she was unhappy with the way 
she had been  treated  when pursuing her mortgage  payment protection  claim as the matter 
was causing her significant  distress.  We sent her complaint to Phoenix, who issued a final 
response letter on 5 December 2006. It told Miss L it had asked her to attend a medical  
examination, and it was awaiting her confirmation  of attendance. Phoenix explained it could 
restart payments if her claim  could be verified by further supporting medical  evidence.    
Ref: DRN63502992In February 2007,  Miss L underwent an examination at home,  and a report  was produced 
regarding her restrictions and inability to undertake certain daily routine tasks,  such as 
washing, cleaning  and dressing. It was also noted Miss L couldnt write or use a telephone. 
Phoenix contrasted the report with evidence  from a pain management consultant.  It noted  
that Miss L may be able to undertake some form of paid employment, albeit one with limited  
manual activities. It then undertook surveillance  of Miss L in April and May 2007.  
The surveillance obtained showed Miss L shopping, driving, bending  and freely  mobilising.  It 
also evidenced (in Phoenixs  view) that she was working for a few hours each week  and had 
answered calls in this capacity. Because of this, Phoenix cancelled  Miss Ls policy in 
July 2007. At that time, it did not seek to recover any previous payments of mortgage  
payment protection from her.   
Miss L sought legal  advice. In 2008, a (differing) solicitor complained about the policy  
cancellation to Phoenix.  In that complaint,  it said that a sum of approximately  £74,000 was 
owed to Miss L as compensation and it noted Phoenix further refused to disclose a report  of 
which Miss L was the subject. 
Phoenixs solicitor replied to the complaint. It rejected the suggestion that a claim payment 
was owed. It said that no claim for a lump sum critical illness payment was ever pursued  
because Miss L hadnt made a critical illness claim. No referral rights  were given to Miss L.    
  
In 2014, Miss L complained to Phoenix again  about  the cancellation of the policy.  It refused 
the complaint,  noting how in 2008 its investigators  had discovered  she had been in 
employment as a director of a company supplying and installing doors  and windows 
alongside her partner. Since this conflicted  with her medical examination,  it felt Miss L had 
acted fraudulently. Therefore, Phoenix maintained it had been  right to void the policy. It also 
said it reserved the right to pursue her for the claims payments she had received from 2002 
to 2006.  
Miss L brought  her complaint to us afresh in 2015. At that time, she complained  about  
differing issues. She said she was unhappy  with Phoenixs refusal to give her access to a 
medical report which she believed showed a TPD claim could have been paid at the time the 
policy was in force. Further,  she thought it had discriminated against  her on the grounds  of 
her disability, particularly  where she was too poorly to be able to cope with paperwork. 
Phoenix objected  to us considering the complaint  for a number of reasons, but principally 
because it felt the issues being  raised stemmed from the cancellation of the policy, and that 
had happened  more than six years before the complaint was pursued with this service. 
An ombudsman issued  a decision  on whether we could look into the complaint on 
30 December 2015. He concluded the complaint concerned two distinct  parts  1) Phoenixs 
decision in 2006  to stop paying Miss Ls mortgage  payment protection  claim and 2) the 
complaint made via her solicitor in 2008  regarding the decision to cancel her policy 
altogether on the grounds of fraud.  
The ombudsman concluded that the first complaint had been made too late so our rules did 
not permit us to consider it further.  The second  complaint was held to be within  time. He said 
this was because  it had been  made to Phoenix  in 2008, but no final response letter to the 
complaint was issued.  The clock had therefore  stopped for the purpose of the time limit, and 
Ref: DRN63502993Miss L wasnt  subject to the further  time limit of bringing the complaint here within  six months 
because Phoenix  hadnt issued referral  rights to her at that time.  
The second  aspect of the complaint was passed  to an adjudicator to continue  her 
investigation. She did not believe the complaint should succeed. She said that the medical 
evidence of Miss Ls condition conflicted  with the surveillance footage obtained  by Phoenix 
to a large degree. Though  she did not comment on the allegation of fraud, she did feel 
Phoenix was reasonably  entitled to rely on the surveillance footage  as a reason to void 
Miss Ls insurance.   
Since Miss L did not reply to the adjudicator, her complaint file was closed on 20 May 2016.     
No further communication was received from Miss L about her complaint (aside from a 
separate communication with our independent  assessor) until early  2018 when she asked 
Phoenix why it had failed to pay out on a TPD claim. 
Phoenix rejected  the complaint. It told Miss L that it took the view that the complaint was 
made too late. It therefore did not investigate the complaint any further.   
When referred to our service,  she said her complaint was about:
1.the decision by Phoenix to suspend the mortgage payment protection  benefit;
2.the cancellation of the policy  she has now discovered that Phoenix knew  she was 
working two hours per week, and so it should never have cancelled the policy  on the 
grounds of fraud. Miss L says it cannot be fraud  if Phoenix  was aware of it; 
3.many  issues  with her subject access requests. In essence,  Miss L says Phoenix had 
been unreasonable in providing all the evidence  it holds about her; and
4.no consideration by Phoenix to assess a TPD claim, despite it being aware Miss L 
was disabled. 
Miss L further submitted that Phoenixs surveillance did not show the full picture of her 
health. For the thirty one days in May, she said she only left home  on two occasions. 
Further, the three driving journeys she made were within one mile of her home. She said she 
had a family member  on standby at the material times that she was observed undertaking 
activities such as shopping. And at no time had she said she could not undertake walking, 
but she does so in pain.  
An adjudicator at this service  looked  into the complaint. She issued  a jurisdiction view 
regarding the mortgage payment protection claim being out of time, which is the subject of a 
separate decision. Our adjudicator also said the fourth aspect was made too late, according  
to the rules applying to this service.
In respect of the complaint  aspects two and three, she said that Phoenix ought to have 
provided Miss L access to a specific medical report about her far sooner than it did. And 
because it failed to do so, she thought Phoenix ought to pay £350 to Miss L to represent the 
upset it had caused her. However,  she did not think Phoenix had acted unfairly  by voiding 
the policy as the surveillance footage presented  a significant contrast to the home-based 
medical assessment.    
In response, Phoenix explained how it was restricted by its practice  of relying  on guidance 
from the British Medical Association which said the appropriate health professional must  be 
consulted before a report can be released.
Ref: DRN63502994Our adjudicator still felt that some  compensation for distress was appropriate. She noted 
Phoenix felt it could not release the medical report to Miss L without consent of the report 
author. But she felt it couldve done more  to assist her in gaining access to the report,  as it 
had eventually taken  several years  before  Miss L was able to see it. A number of 
administrative failings occurred around this, and prolonged  the process for Miss L.  
Miss L sent further  comments relating  to all of her complaints. Within this, she says the only 
consent she gave  for access  to her medical information (without being viewed by her first) 
was at the outset  of the policy. Otherwise,  Phoenix had continually acted without her consent  
until such time it cancelled the policy. And it continues to do so by denying access  to 
information.   
Miss Ls solicitor objected to the view on her behalf.  It said whilst it agreed with our 
adjudicator that compensation  was due for the failure to disclose  the 2007 report from Dr R, 
it did not agree that the policy was cancelled fairly.  Nor did it think  Phoenix had behaved  
fairly in respect  of other disclosure. It also said, in summary:
the guidance  Phoenix  relied on from the BMA also says that disclosures ought to be 
made unless  it would cause the recipient serious  harm  that didnt apply to Miss L 
so she ought to be allowed full disclosure of everything  held about her;
there are still two outstanding reports withheld from Miss L from a Dr C (2004) and 
a Dr A (2002);
it is unclear what medical evidence the adjudicator has looked at when concluding it 
is fair to decline the claims;
medical evidence from 2005, 2006  and 2007  makes clear that Miss L cannot return  
to her own occupation;
Miss L does  not accept that the medical  evidence contradicts the surveillance 
evidence  the medical evidence  ought  therefore  to be reviewed now.  
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our adjudicator and for principally the same  reasons. Ill explain why.     
Before I go any further,  Id like to thank the parties for their patience  while  I reviewed all of 
the evidence in this complaint (and the other linked complaint). Given  the history  of this 
matter dates back almost twenty years, there is a significant amount of documentation to 
review on two case files. This has naturally taken time to process. 
Miss L and her solicitor  have made  very detailed submissions in support of the complaints 
and Ive read and considered these carefully. But I wont go on to address  every point thats 
been raised in my findings below. Ive instead concentrated on what I think are the central  
issues to the two aspects  in this complaint.
Id also like to pass my best wishes to Miss L. I acknowledge  from her ongoing discussions 
with our adjudicators  just how poorly she feels, and how difficult  she has found it dealing  with 
the sheer volume of paperwork in her complaint(s). 
Ref: DRN63502995The other two aspects of Miss Ls complaint have been addressed in separate  jurisdiction 
decisions, one previously in 2015,  and the other as a linked jurisdiction  decision  to this 
complaint. Some of the points Miss Ls solicitor  has made about  medical  evidence  relate  to 
the non-payment of the TPD claim.  Those are relevant to the matter being  considered  in the 
linked jurisdiction decision. I shant be discussing those further in this decision.
Phoenixs decision to cancel Miss Ls policy
Miss L has now been able to review information  supplied to her as part of her repeated 
requests to Phoenix  for disclosure. Having done so, she submits that it is clear Phoenix  was 
aware she intended to assist her partner in working a couple  of hours per week. This was 
with a view to establishing if she could ever undergo paid employment  again. However, she 
was never  paid for this work because she couldnt complete it to an acceptable standard.  
Miss L has told us she feels that trying  to assist her partner  with his business  couldnt ever 
be reasonably  considered  as an occupation  for the purposes of the policy  wording.  
I appreciate what Miss L says about this employment. But I dont think  that Phoenix has 
disputed knowledge  of her intention to work  on this basis. I say that because  Miss L wrote to 
Phoenix in a letter dated 16 September  2004. Within that letter she told Phoenix she had 
recently been offered a permanent opportunity to work some hours with her partner, which  
would have been almost impossible to secure  elsewhere given  the nature of her disability. 
She told Phoenix that she would keep it up to date with her progress, and specifically if or 
when the job might attract any pay.  
The fact Miss L intended  to undergo  work on this basis was also confirmed by her ongoing 
attendance at a rehabilitation clinic. A record of 9 February 2005 confirms  she was now 
working (though I note that report makes  reference to two hours  per day, rather than two 
hours per week).  And the same clinic  made a further record on 31 October  2005  that she 
was still working circa two to three hours  per week as a business adviser.  
Phoenix had access  to this information  as copies of the reports from the rehabilitation clinic 
were sent to it. The reason it chose to undertake surveillance of Miss L was that upon 
routine review a case handler noted she had confirmed undertaking certain types of exercise 
to alleviate her pain yet this conflicted  with the information obtained within  a pain 
management report and from the home visit regarding her mobility  restrictions.  It was also 
felt there  was a lack of current medical evidence  available  given the longevity  of her 
disability.   
Im not able to look at Phoenixs decision to stop paying the mortgage payment protection 
claim here, because a previous ombudsman decided that claim was out of time in 2015. 
However, it was as part of the ongoing review  of that claim that Phoenix undertook 
surveillance of Miss L. 
I know Miss L feels strongly that the surveillance  of her was unfair,  but it was within 
Phoenixs remit to seek such evidence. I dont believe in this circumstance that it was an 
unreasonable step to take.  I say that because by 2007 Miss L was not receiving any 
specialist assistance  because of the long-term  nature  of her condition  and she was only 
under the care of her GP, records of which are self-reported. Its for this reason a home 
assessment was undertaken  and once surveillance was completed,  the medical assessor 
reviewed that footage  to compare it to the report she had written  and gave a further account 
of her view to Phoenix.  
Ref: DRN63502996Its not my role to decide whether a customers claim is fraudulent. So, I will not be reviewing  
the medical evidence and substituting my view for that of Phoenix in 2008, as put forward  by 
Miss Ls solicitor. My role is to determine  if Phoenix  acted reasonably in deciding  it was 
entitled to terminate Miss Ls contract  of insurance following receipt of the surveillance 
evidence. Miss Ls contract  of insurance notes how the policy is subject  to relevant law, and 
in the cancellation letter it has stated Miss L was in breach of the statutory duty of utmost  
good faith as well as other  common law breaches.   
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment to Miss L, I agree with both of 
our previous  adjudicators. Im satisfied  it wasnt unfair or unreasonable  for Phoenix to cancel 
the policy. The assessors evidence was provided  in the round, once she had contrasted the 
surveillance with her home visit assessment. And Ive seen no reason to believe her 
assessment was not impartial  or objective. Miss L has recently queried that the home 
assessment and review  of the surveillance  were undertaken by the same person (as the 
nurse in question uses a shortened version  of her name). However, Phoenix has confirmed 
the same  qualified nurse undertook both exercises,  which I believe is correct. Miss L also 
says the home visit was unlawful and deceptive,  but I dont agree. The policy terms 
specifically provide for Phoenix obtaining relevant  evidence for medical claims and I do not 
believe having an appropriately qualified person conducting a recorded  home  assessment to 
be an unfair proposal.  
I am mindful  that surveillance is only one means of observing a person. It does not provide 
any objective measure  of how much pain that person may feel or any difficulty a person may 
experience when performing a particular task.  I would not expect to see an insurer  use such 
evidence in isolation to void a policy. Nor would  I expect  it to place weight on evidence  
limited to a constrained period. However,  in this particular case, the surveillance footage  
contrasted so materially from the assessment undertaken by the assessor that it was a 
reasonable step to take to ask the assessors view on the footage when compared to all of 
the other medical  evidence. Similarly, that contrast was sufficient for Phoenix  to reach a 
conclusion that, in its view, Miss Ls actions had fraudulent  intent. I dont find it reached that 
conclusion unfairly  or unreasonably. So, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.      
As an aside,  I should note that during the course of this complaint Miss Ls solicitor has 
supplied a letter from Miss Ls doctor dated  19 September 2018.  This comprises a complete 
retrospective assessment  of her capabilities, up to the time the policy was cancelled. It 
makes particular reference to findings which counter the surveillance  evidence obtained by 
Phoenix in 2007.  However, as Ive said above, my role is to decide if Phoenix behaved fairly 
at the time of cancellation of the policy. Whilst the report  may be relevant in respect of the 
linked complaint regarding a TPD claim, it has been  compiled  some eleven years  after the 
decision by Phoenix.  So, Ive not considered it further here.  
handling of the ongoing subject access requests  
Miss L has made a number of subject access requests to Phoenix dating back  from a report  
first being  issued about her in 2007. Thats because on several  occasions  (notably 2004 and 
2006) Miss L had said expressly how she did not want reports  written about her to be sent to 
Phoenix until she had reviewed them  and this was her right under the Access  to Medical 
Reports Act (AMRA). 
Despite this, Miss L was not sent a copy of the 2007  report by Dr R  and this was key as he 
was providing her with pain management support. Miss L has now only seen this report  
Ref: DRN63502997following intervention  by our adjudicator even though  she made another  subject access 
request in April 2016. 
It isnt possible to say why Miss L was not sent a copy  of the report to review  beforehand by 
Dr R, given her most recent instruction under AMRA  of 2006 was clear  in setting out her 
wishes. But I agree  with our adjudicator that the most likely reason would be use of a 
previous AMRA form which did not contain  the same express objection.  
I know Miss Ls solicitor feels Phoenix was wrong to rely on guidance from the BMA  
regarding serious  harm resulting from the disclosure  of medical  reports. But that is taken in 
isolation; it is only part of the guidance Phoenix  has quoted. What it actually relied upon was 
where it says, if the data controller is not the appropriate health professional, then the 
appropriate health professional needs to be consulted before the records  are disclosed .
Like our adjudicator, I dont think its unreasonable for Phoenix to have relied on that 
guidance. Whilst it is a decision for Phoenix  as to what information it believes it is legally 
obliged to release under  relevant data protection laws (noting that those have since changed  
in line with the General Data Protection Regulation), it could have done  more to help Miss L 
access the report by obtaining Dr Rs consent. I say that with recognition for the fact Miss Ls 
disability impairs her communication and ability to manage her affairs.
In these particular  circumstances, I agree with that £350 is reasonable compensation for 
these errors,  within the range of awards  we make  for upset caused  by administrative failings 
of this type. 
I can see from the evidence that Phoenix has issued a written reply  in respect of releasing all 
of the data it believes it is obliged to disclose  to Miss L in April 2018. In response, Miss L has 
explained she has an ongoing case with the Information Commissioners  Office in respect of 
missing information held about her by Phoenix. Whether Phoenix has acted lawfully  in 
respect of data protection law is a matter for that office, not this service.  
As regards  the two outstanding reports, it seems as though  the material  difference  for those 
reports is that they were  issued prior to Miss L providing express consent to receive the 
reports beforehand.  However, should Miss L still require access to those now and they have 
not been released under her ongoing  communications with the ICO, I would suggest 
Phoenix offers her assistance  in accessing those from the respective authors directly  in 
accordance with the guidance it follows from the BMA.    
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. 
I do not uphold  the complaint aspect regarding the cancellation of Miss Ls life and critical 
illness policy, since I believe Phoenixs decision was a reasonable one in the circumstances. 
However, I do consider  the failure to assist Miss L in obtaining access  to a key report from 
Dr R has prolonged  and exacerbated matters unnecessarily. I therefore direct  Phoenix Life 
Limited to pay Miss L £350 to recognise  the upset  it has caused her. I also direct it to provide 
any further reasonable assistance to Miss L to assist her in contacting the authors of two 
outstanding reports, if these have  not already been  received by her or her solicitor.   
I make  no other direction or award.   
Ref: DRN63502998Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
    
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6350299