K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  refused  to let him reject  a faulty car.
Background
In September  2018 Mr A acquired second  hand  car costing £25,000  funded by a conditional
sales agreement.  The car was some  three  years  old and was sold as having  done 82,987
miles.
Within a few weeks  Mr A says he had identified a number of problems. He says there was a
rip in a tyre, a loose seatbelt, an airbag warning,  the fob battery  was low and the front doors
were squeaking.  Mr A contacted Moneybarn and it in turn spoke to the dealer.
It was agreed that the dealer would carry out repairs,  but Mr A didnt live close by and he
suggested they be carried out by a third party at the dealers expense. The dealer rejected
this as it didnt  consider  it could guarantee the work. Moneybarn asked Mr A to contact the
dealer to arrange the repairs. I gather he didnt do so, but had the tyre replaced.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld in part. She noted  that the Moneybarn had said
it would  look at the possibility of collecting the car to be repaired, but this hadnt been
followed up. The issue of the disputed mileage  hadnt been  fully examined by Moneybarn as
Mr A hadnt  sent in the evidence it had sought.
She concluded that the various  faults  Mr A had raised were wear and tear issues  which 
could be addressed by the dealer if Mr A had taken it back.  As for the mileage  discrepancy  
she said the photograph of the dashboard provided  by Mr A wasnt proof as it could have 
been from another car or from any date. However, she thought  that Moneybarn had failed to 
follow up the offer of collecting  the car and for that she thought it should pay £50 in 
compensation.
Moneybarn agreed,  but Mr A said he wished the matter to be considered by an ombudsman
and that he would send in further information  which has yet to be received. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I noted that Mr A had asked that I defer a decision to allow  him to provide more information.  
However, I pointed out that had had some  nine months to do so and I could see no reason 
why I should delay matters yet further. I appreciated he had said the Covid  19 crisis  has 
hampered him, but only in the preceding few months  so I didnt consider it fair to Moneybarn 
to delay matters further.
In any event, I explained that the issue for which he was seeking more  time concerned the 
mileage discrepancy and I was happy  to accept that the figure shown on the invoice was 
inaccurate. I said I didnt  know  what was shown on the car advert  or whether  Mr A inspected  
the car before purchase and had seen the actual mileage. However,  I noted  the MOT carried  
out in December 2017 recorded a mileage figure of 81,343,  the next in December 2018 
recorded 90,193 miles and in December 2019  it had done 103,217 miles.
These suggested Mr A has been doing  about  12,000 miles a year and it seemed more likely 
than not the actual mileage at the time of sale was some 87,000 miles. I had no reason to 
think this would have  caused Mr A to walk away  from the purchase, but he might  have  been  
Ref: DRN60591662able to negotiate slightly better  price. I thought it hard to say how much this might have 
been, but if one took 0.4 pence a mile as a reasonable  figure  I suggested he may have 
saved £160. I added  that a higher mileage means  greater wear  and tear on the car which 
should result  in a reduced price.
As for the other issues Mr A encountered,  I noted  the dealer  was willing  to repair  these and 
Mr A chose not to accept  that offer. It may have been inconvenient for him to get to the 
dealer, but it was his choice to buy a car from that dealer and so he must  accept the 
consequences of that decision.  I agreed that Moneybarn didnt follow  up its offer to see if 
collection would be possible and for that I considered compensation of £50 to be fair.
All the issues Mr A complained of regarding the state of the car appeared to be matters  of 
wear and tear and I said I had seen no evidence that they were  of such seriousness that 
they would  merit  rejection.  I said it was quite possible for these to be repaired  and I thought 
the dealers offer to make repairs  was both fair and reasonable.  The faults didnt prevent 
Mr A from making use of the car and he seems to have done  over 12,000 miles a year which 
is greater than the average  for cars. I also said that it is not obliged to pay for work he had 
done at third party garages.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulator's rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice  and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  The finance 
agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement,  in this case is a regulated consumer  credit  
agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints  relating  to it. Moneybarn is 
also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a complaint 
about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that
"the quality  of the goods is satisfactory".
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicle's history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
The business has accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr A has not. He asked for an 
extension to the deadline to respond and this has been given. He has submitted a subject 
access request to Moneybarn and the broker. I already have  had access  to all Moneybarns  
records and I cannot see that further  information will add anything of value. I would add that 
our adjudicator issued  her view letter a year ago and my provisional decision was sent out 
over two months ago. I dont consider it fair to continually defer reaching a conclusion  on this 
Ref: DRN60591663complaint. I believe Mr A has been  given a considerable amount of time to supply further 
information.
Mr A also said that I hadnt been given the correct information or evidence supporting his 
claim. I am satisfied I have seen all that he has submitted. My summary of the background is 
a distilled version of that set out by Mr A and I have already accepted that the mileage 
quoted by the dealer  was wrong.
Mr A also sent another copy of an estimate  he had from a local garage for work on the 
steering column  and for new tyres. This was dated  28 September. I have noted that Mr A 
didnt complain about the steering column  to Moneybarn, but did raise it with this service 
later on. He also refers  to a 30-day cooling off period which  I presume refers to the 
consumer law which allows a consumer to returns  goods  if they are not fit for purpose  taking 
into account the age and previous usage.
I dont disagree that Mr A complained to the dealer within 30 days, but I have not been 
persuaded that car suffered from such defects as to be deemed faulty taking  into account its 
age mileage and price. The car had covered a very high mileage for its age and the issues 
Mr A has mentioned are relatively minor which could be repaired and which the dealer 
offered to address. I think the fact that he has been able to make  extensive use of it over a 
period of almost  two years indicates it was fit for purpose at the point  of sale.  
Of the various issues Mr A has raised, the tyres,  squeaking doors  etc I believe these to be 
wear and tear. The only issue  which may not have  been wear and tear was the apparent  
issue with the steering  column, but I must  stress that it only may have been more than wear  
and tear. Having given  the matter much  consideration I dont consider that to be sufficient to 
merit rejection.
On the matter of the mileage it is clear from Mr As comments that he was looking for a price  
reduction of the incorrect information given by the dealer and I am happy  to agree. 
I have concluded  than my original  decision  should  stand. Mr A is entitled to some 
recompense for the incorrect mileage  being quoted and for Moneybarns failure to follow up 
on its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to pay 
Mr A £160  to reflect the incorrect mileage and £50 compensation. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6059166