K821x#15complaint
Mr J says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr J between  January 
2017 and April 2018. A summary of Mr Js borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
Amount
1 12/01/2017 22/02/2017 6 £550.00 £172.56
2 02/04/2018 19/11/2018 12 £825.00 £124.08
Our adjudicator didnt  think either  of the loans should have been lent to Mr J. 
Notwithstanding there  was a large  gap of 404 days between Mr J taking out both of these 
loans, she said that based on MYJARs  own affordability assessments it should  have been 
clear from the outset that Mr J did not have enough disposable income to meet his 
repayments on the loan.
MYJAR disagree with this view. It said that although  it was noted Mr J had a debt of £900  
there was no reason  to believe that this needed to be repaid in full that month. MYJAR 
thought the increased checks noted  in its business file were  proportionate. As the parties  are 
not in agreement the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN67233522the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for both the first and the second loan 
would most  likely have  shown that Mr J had regular  financial commitments  which  amounted 
to a large proportion  of his income.  
Based on MYJARs  own checks at the time it provided the instalment loans to Mr J, it would 
likely have been aware that he had regular commitments to pay other unsecured debt 
amounts. In January 2017 at the time MYJAR provided the first loan, its records show that 
Mr J had a regular payment obligation  towards  unsecured debt of £900. Taking Mr Js 
income and expenditure into account  this would have  meant  he likely didnt have enough  
money to meet  his instalment repayments  for this loan. 
And by the time MYJAR gave the second loan to Mr J, its own checks would have also 
showed that Mr J had other regular commitments  and that Mr J had a very high percentage 
of debt at the time which would have indicated he would likely have been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for this loan either.
MYJAR says there were no reasons to believe that the full amount  of the other  debts Mr J 
had were repayable  in one go. But I dont agree.  I think at the time it gave these loans, by 
MYJARs own assessment, it would  have been alerted to Mr Js financial circumstances. So, 
I think it ought to have known that Mr J would have been unable  to sustainably meet his 
monthly loan repayments.
  
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  both loans  1 and 2 and MYJAR should put things 
right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans 1 and 2;
Ref: DRN67233523pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Js credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr J a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Js complaint.  MYJAR  Limited  should  pay 
Mr J compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6723352