K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs W complains that Sesame Limiteds appointed representative SFA didnt 
give sufficient advice  to Mrs W about the equity release mortgage she took out. It wants the 
debt reduced.
background
Mrs W took out an equity release mortgage  in 2001, advised by SFA, an appointed  
representative of Sesame Limited.  Mrs W died in 2018  and her estate complained  that SFA 
didnt sufficiently explain to her that the debt to be repaid would increase significantly from 
the amount borrowed.
The estate  of Mr W complained to Sesame, saying that Mrs W hadnt been entirely been of 
sound mind when the mortgage was taken out. It pointed out that Mrs W had been  also 
advised by an independent solicitor  about  the mortgage. The estate said that as the 
advisers name was absent from the solicitors  confirmation, this affected the weight to be 
placed on it. Sesame  also said that SFA did explain the mortgage to Mrs W and how it 
worked, and Mrs W wouldve been provided  with the information  in writing (due to the 
passage of time, Sesame  couldnt provide a copy but said as it was required, it was more 
likely than not to have been  supplied).  Sesame noted that the lender sent Mrs W yearly  
statements about the outstanding debt, showing the equity in the property was reducing.
The estate  of Mrs W complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Mrs W had signed to 
say she understood  and accepted the terms of the mortgage, and received independent 
legal advice. She didnt think the absence of SFAs name from the solicitors certificate 
mattered. The adjudicator also thought that it was likely  that Mrs W had been  given  written  
information about the product by SFA and noted that Mrs W was the average age for taking 
out such a mortgage. She said that there was no evidence that Mrs W didnt have capacity  
and the product appeared to be suitable for her needs at the time.
The estate  of Mrs W disagreed. It said that Mrs Ws age and health were contributing 
factors, and that it believed that she didnt  fully understand the mortgage and how it worked. 
It thought that the absence of the name  of SFA from the solicitors certificate was significant 
and made  the certificate null and void. The estate also said that after the mortgage  was 
taken out, Mrs W suffered from memory loss and dementia and it believed  that SFA didnt 
give face-to-face advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Independent financial advisers are required to recommend a product which  is suitable to 
meet a consumers needs and ensure that the product is clearly explained. For equity 
release mortgages,  extra  processes are put in place to ensure that consumers understood 
the consequences  this is why lenders require an independent solicitor  gave advice  to 
consumers and it is required to give information in writing about the product.
Ref: DRN62803352In Mrs Ws case,  due to the passage  of time,  the advisers evidence has been destroyed. So 
neither the estate nor anyone else can be sure if face-to-face meetings took place with SFA. 
But I think that its more  likely than not that Mrs W was given the required information in 
writing as it was standard practice. Also,  as she was advised by an independent solicitor, 
she was given the information in any event (and additional legal advice). I considered  
carefully the certificate from the solicitor,  and I dont think  the absence  of SFAs name is 
important. What is important is the advice the solicitor said he gave Mrs W, which included 
the details of the mortgage and the way interest  was charged. The certificate is signed by 
the firm and is not null and void as a matter of law. And Mrs W signed documents saying that 
she understood and accepted the terms of the mortgage.
And while Mrs Ws estate  feels that she wasnt entirely of sound mind and noted her age at 
the time the mortgage was taken  out, theres  no reason why older  consumers cant  make 
their own financial choices. These mortgages are designed for the more mature  consumer. 
Mrs W received  money to spend  as she wished, without having  to make any repayments or 
worry about the debt needing  to be repaid  I cant say that it was unsuitable for her needs.
Theres no evidence that Mrs W didnt have  capacity (and the evidence required to support a 
finding that a person doesnt  have capacity requires more than the comments made by the 
estate). A solicitor is not an expert  in mental  health  matters and cannot determine  capacity, 
but solicitors are aware that if there is any concern that a client  doesnt understand the 
transaction, they should ask for a medical opinion. This didnt happen  in Mrs Ws case, 
despite the solicitor  talking to her about the product, which suggests that Mrs W did have 
capacity. I should  also mention  that it is assumed someone has capacity, rather  than 
assumed that someone does not.
I also think that its relevant that Mrs W was sent yearly statements telling her about the 
mortgage and the interest  owed, and she didnt complain. While no objective evidence of 
Mrs Ws health after the mortgage has been taken  out has been provided, the statements 
couldve been shown  to third parties  if Mrs W was confused about their content.
Having considered the evidence, I cant find that Mrs W wasnt given sufficient information 
about the mortgage or that it was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280335