K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1995. Mr F says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI when he took out his Visa 
and MasterCard accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr F has said it wasnt made clear to him the cover was optional and he thinks it was added to 
his accounts without his knowledge. But I think Lloyds  made it clear that Mr F didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this after all this time. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application  
form completed at the time of the sale and this includes a section about  PPI. In this section 
there is a box to tick if PPI is required. On Mr Fs form I can see that the box has been ticked  
and he has signed the form which suggests he agreed with everything that had been 
entered. If Mr F didnt want to take out the PPI, he could have left the box blank.
Ive also seen copies  of Mr Fs credit card statements and these show  the charge for the 
policies as separate entries on his credit  card statements. If he didnt know  what  this charge 
was for or hadnt agreed to taking out the PPI, I think he would have raised this with Lloyds 
sooner than he did.
Lloyds is unsure of how the policies were sold but has said it thinks  it would have  
recommended the PPI to Mr F. This means  Lloyds had to check  that the cover  was right for 
him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the main  limitations or exclusions on the policies 
such as unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition of which  he 
was already aware. 
Mr F has told us he would have received sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work 
but the PPI policies would have paid out for up to 12 months  and any payment would have 
been in addition to any sick pay he would have received. And it would  also have provided 
cover for the same length of time if he was to lose his job  as Mr F has told us he had no 
other means  of making his repayments if he wasnt working I think  the policies could have 
provided him with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
Ref: DRN64313622But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F on his MasterCard account  
card number ending  8720 - because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  on this account  - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive also thought about what  Mr F has said about there having been other court  cases  in 
relation to non-disclosure of commission where consumers have received everything back. 
So he thinks  Lloyds should refund  all of the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Lloyds  has made Mr F an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received on his MasterCard account   card number ending 8720  - that is in-
line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr F wants Lloyds to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr F and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr F. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Fs complaint  or circumstances  that suggests the redress paid 
by Lloyds isnt fair or reasonable. In this case I think Lloydss  offer is a fair way to resolve 
this case.
But in relation to the Visa account  - card number  ending 7211 - taken out at the same time, 
Lloyds doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr F paid for the PPI he had with this 
credit card. The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share 
from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, 
then that could  create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA 
said that businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came  into force  on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements taken out before then, which  were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Lloyds has given me information that shows this credit card account ended in 2004. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont  think the unfair relationship  provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  judgment, or the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
Ref: DRN64313623my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on his MasterCard account   card number 
ending 8720. I understand it has already done this, so I dont  award any further  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6431362