K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc reissued his credit card after a long time of 
inactivity without carrying out any affordability  checks.
background
Mr A says that after a number of years when his credit card was suspended due to him 
being in a debt management  plan (DMP) Sainsburys Bank reissued his card. He says he 
received a statement from the account  in March 2018  after years of not receiving statements 
and when he contacted Sainsburys Bank it agreed to re-issue his card with a £3,000 credit 
limit without carrying out any checks.
Mr A says that at the time the card was re-issued he was being  declined by other lenders 
including short term debt providers.  He says he had a gambling  addition which  had caused  
his financial issues and resulted in him entering  into a DMP and as a recovering addict 
receiving access to new funds was a serious  issue.
Sainsburys Bank says that when  a card is re-issued an assessment is completed and that 
Mr A met the criteria  at that time. It says that it was not made aware of Mr As gambling until 
after the card had been re-issued and that at that time it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment. At this time it says it also assigned a zero offer to the account  to 
limit the charges  and interest which  would  be applied.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said that she wouldnt expect Sainsburys 
Bank to carry out affordability checks before re-issuing  a card.  She noted Mr As comments 
about his gambling addiction  but said he didnt tell Sainsburys Bank about this until after the 
card had been re-issued. 
Our adjudicator also said that when Mr A discussed  his gambling with the bank the adviser 
sympathised with his situation and referred him to the money management team  for 
assistance. She said that since  being made aware  of this the bank had carried  out an 
income and expenditure assessment and set up a payment plan. 
Mr A did not accept our adjudicators view. He said that Sainsburys Bank was aware of his 
DMP and that payments  were made through this. He said he didnt have any contact with his 
creditors while he was on the DMP.
As part of the DMP Mr A said he wasnt allowed to obtain any credit  and so he didnt use his 
card from 2012 to 2016. He said Sainsburys Bank  shouldnt have then raised his credit limit 
following the end of the DMP as his credit score  was still poor.  He reiterated that affordability 
checks should have  taken place before the card was reissued and his credit  limit reinstated.
Mr A also reiterated that he hadnt been  receiving  statements. He said he only received 
statements on his account up to September 2014 when he moved. He said he didnt receive 
any statements at his new address until 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62611482Mr A complains that he was provided  with a new card on his account without any 
affordability checks being undertaken despite him not having used the card for many years 
and him having  previously  been  in a DMP. Mr A has also said that he didnt receive  any 
statements on the account for many years and that the arrival of a statement in March 2018  
led him to get the card re-issued.
Mr A explained that he entered  into a DMP in 2012 and that this finished in 2016.  During  this 
time he didnt contact his creditors  and was not able to use his card.  I have looked through  
the statements  that have been  provided for Mr As account from September  2014. These 
show he wasnt using the card and was generally making payments of less than the 
minimum amount. Interest and charges were not generally applied  from October  2014  until 
March 2016 (although there were some  exceptions).
I note Sainsburys Banks  comments about  its credit  cards being maintained by a third party 
in 2016. However  as the DMP was in place from 2012 to 2016 I would have expected  it to be 
aware of this. Having  looked at the account statements for Mr A it does appear that it was 
working with Mr A as interest and charges were not being applied  in most months despite 
him not making  the minimum required payment. Based on this I find it more likely than not 
that Sainsburys Bank was aware  of Mr As DMP and was working with him in regard to this.
In regard to statements I have looked at when the address changed and this was in 
March 2016. I note Mr A has said he moved  before this date but it was his responsibility  to 
inform Sainsburys Bank about  his new address, even if he was making payments through a 
DMP.
The statements  show  that Mr A had repaid the card in mid 2016  which  was when his DMP 
came to an end. As Mr As statements were being  sent to his current  address from 
April 2016, I find that he should have been  reasonably aware that he had an active account 
with a £3,100 limit from that time.
I can see Mr A didnt  spend on the account  until after the March  2018 statement. Mr A has 
explained that he got his card re-issued at that time and then started using it for gambling. 
While I understand why Mr A is upset  at the situation he is now in, I dont find I can say that 
Sainsburys Bank did anything wrong.  I say this because  Mr A had a live account with 
Sainsburys Bank with an existing credit limit of £3,100. He was being  sent statements on 
this account which clearly showed the limit available. 
As this was a re-issue of a card on an existing account on which  a credit  limit was already in 
place I cannot  say this was providing  Mr A with any additional credit at this time. Therefore I 
wouldnt have expected the affordability  checks that would be expected in regard to new 
credit to have taken place. Mr As account  had not shown any issues in the previous months 
and was fully paid from mid 2016 therefore I do not find this would have raised concerns.
The information provided shows that Mr A didnt tell Sainsburys Bank about his gambling 
until after the card had been  re-issued  and so I dont find that it can be held responsible for 
the debt that he accrued.
When Mr A explained his situation to Sainsburys Bank on a call in April 2018  I find it did 
treat him sympathetically.
Ref: DRN62611483Overall, while  I can understand  why Mr A is upset by the situation  he is in, I do not find that I 
can uphold this complaint. Given Mr As situation I would expect Sainsburys Bank  to treat 
him positively and sympathetically in regard to the repayment of his account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6261148