K822xcomplaint
Ms O complained that her mortgage  broker  London and Country Mortgages Ltd delayed 
sending proof of her self-employed income to the lender. She said this had unnecessarily 
delayed the completion of her mortgage.
London and Country offered Ms O compensation, but she wanted  more. She said it didnt 
reflect her loss of earnings and the emotional  impact of the delay.
background
In June 2018, Ms O contacted London  and Country  about taking  out a remortgage. She had 
an existing joint mortgage but was splitting  up from her partner, and wanted to remortgage  
the property into her sole name.
London and Countrys adviser recommended a lender and mortgage. Ms O had some 
employed and some  self-employed income.  On 20 June, London and Country asked Ms O 
to provide her most recent payslip, two years  of tax year overviews, and two years  of tax 
calculations. Ms O provided these on 26 June.  London and Country sent an application form 
to the chosen  lender, which it copied to Ms O. This showed Ms Os gross annual pay as 
£34,930 and her net self-employed annual profit as £8,465.
On 27 June, London and Country told Ms O what further documents  shed need to provide. 
She sent these on 2 July. London  and Countrys adviser didnt send  these to the lender  until 
11 July.
On 24 July, the lender asked for more information. London and Country passed on this 
request and Ms O supplied the information. But she said shed had a key details summary 
from the lender,  which hadnt included her self-employed income.  She said I trust that if this 
has been omitted it will not delay the process.  The fixed  rate on my present mortgage  
expires on 31 August.  This is the completion date I am requesting.
On 30 July, Ms O sent London and Country the extra  information  which  the lender had 
requested on 24 July.
.
Shortly afterwards, the lender  asked London and Country  to confirm whether childcare costs  
shown on Ms Os payslip would continue. And it said that although  £8,465 was shown on the 
application form, it didnt  have any evidence of that on file.
On 3 August,  London and Country asked Ms O about the childcare. She replied  on 7 August, 
and also asked about the timescales. She said that London and Country  had said it would 
look at the market again before completion,  to check for better  rates, and she asked the 
adviser to do that. And she said that she wanted  the mortgage  completed as soon as 
possible, preferably for 31 August  when  her current fixed rate expired. London and Country 
replied to her question about rates.  It sent the childcare information, and the self-
employment information, to the lender on 8 August.
Later that day, Ms O complained to London  and Country. Shed spoken  to the lender, whod 
said it had only received the information about  self-employed income  that day, and that it 
hadnt received  the information  about  her child care information. She said shed be 
complaining if the remortgage didnt complete by 31 August because  of London and Country 
not sending information within reasonable timescales.
Ref: DRN63849632London and Country replied  that it hadnt sent the information before, because it only 
received the last bit of information from Ms O on 7 August. The adviser said it didnt send  
information as and when it received it, as that would delay the lenders timescales.
The mortgage offer was issued by the lender  on 9 August.
On 27 August, Ms O complained to London  and Country that it hadnt sent all the required 
documents promptly to the lender, and this had unnecessarily delayed completion.
London and Country accepted that its adviser  had received  documents from Ms O on 2 July, 
but he hadnt sent them on to the lender until 11 July. It pointed out that from 11 to 24 July 
the lender had been assessing  the application. And it said that it had put Ms Os self-
employed income on the application form  and shed been sent a copy  at the time which 
showed that. London and Country said that it was just that the lender hadnt asked for proof 
until 31 July. But it accepted that its adviser could have forwarded the proof  on to the lender 
on 31 July when Ms O had sent it.
London and Country pointed out that once the offer was issued, the responsibility  for 
processing the mortgage was a matter for solicitors, and it couldnt take responsibility for any 
delay in completion. But it felt that as its adviser had delayed, it was fair to pay Ms O some 
compensation  for 2 to 11 July, and 31 July to 8 August. It worked  out a figure based on 
Ms Os previous and new interest rates. It didnt use the correct rates at first, but the 
corrected figure was £171.76 which  it rounded up to £200 and offered to Ms O.
The lender  wrote to London and Country  on 21 September to say it had received the 
Certificate of Title for Ms O. The mortgage completed on 28 September.
Ms O didnt accept London  and Countrys compensation offer.  She said it didnt take account  
of her loss of earnings and the impact  on her physical and emotional wellbeing.  She wanted 
evidence that London and Country  had told the lender about her self-employed income.  She 
said shed been  living with a young child in a highly stressful and abusive situation with her 
former partner while waiting for the remortgage  to go through. She calculated her loss of 
earnings and asked for an increased offer.
London and Country sent Ms O another copy of the application form which  it had previous 
sent to the lender and Ms O on 26 June. This included her self-employed income. The 
broker offered to increase its compensation to £300  as a gesture of goodwill, but pointed out 
that it couldnt agree that any delays  after the offer on 9 August were due to its staff.
Ms O wasnt  satisfied.  She wanted London and Country to pay her for 19 days of earnings,  
which she calculated as £670.13, as well as the interest of £171.76. She complained  to this 
service.
The investigators final view was that:
- he thought  it was likely Ms O would have explained her personal  circumstances at 
the outset, and why it was important to her that the remortgage  should  complete and 
her ex- partner move out on 31 August;
- when London and Country  asked  Ms O to provide  her most recent payslip, two years 
of tax year overviews, and two years of tax calculations, on 20 June,  it should  have 
known that the lender would need  Ms O to provide evidence of her self-employed  
Ref: DRN63849633income. He thought the broker should have asked Ms O for the information at that 
stage;
- he agreed that London  and Country couldnt guarantee a completion  date, because it 
wasnt responsible  for conveyancing.  But he thought that if there hadnt been a 19 
day delay between  2 and 11 July, and 31 July and 8 August, it could have been a 
possibility that the remortgage  could have completed earlier. This would have 
reduced the impact  on Ms O.
He explained  that this service doesnt investigate or compensate for time off work, but he 
considered London and Country should  pay Ms O £300 for trouble and upset, plus £171.76 
for paying a higher rate for 19 days. This made  a total of £471.76.
Neither London and Country, nor Ms O, was satisfied with this.
Ms O said she was offended by the description  trouble  and upset because  this wasnt  
appropriate to describe  the dangerous and volatile situation, physical violence and 
psychological abuse she was suffering at the time.  She was also unhappy because there 
hadnt been any discussion with her about the proposed  figure, and it was well below the 
amount shed said she considered reasonable.
London and Country said it had acknowledged that its adviser could  have forwarded  the 
information sooner.  It pointed out that it had agreed  to pay the interest difference  for the full 
19 days, even  though  there could have been  any number of reasons for the delayed  
completion. It didnt agree  with the investigator  that it had control over the application 
process, and lenders  could ask for information  at any point up to completion. It also didnt 
agree that it should have anticipated that the lender  would want  evidence of Ms Os self-
employment income. It said this was by no means certain, and it explained that it wouldnt 
ask for evidence until a lender requested it. To do so would  cause potentially  unnecessary  
inconvenience and costs for applicants. London and Country said it couldnt agree to the 
increased payment  for trouble and upset because  it had no control over the time it would 
take to complete a mortgage.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
what delays London  and Country was responsible  for
London and Countrys adviser failed to send  on the documents which  Ms O supplied  on 2 
July until 11 July. I found that this caused  a nine day delay to the application process. The 
adviser also didnt  send the self-employment information which the lender requested  on 31 
July, until 8 August.  But I noted that the lender had also requested more information about  
childcare costs, and the adviser sent on Ms Os 7 August reply about  this on 8 August. So 
the advisers failure to send on the self-employment information promptly didnt actually  
cause any additional  delay to the process, because at the same  time, the lender wanted 
more information  about child care costs.  
I also noted that Ms Os previous mortgage  was a joint one  the remortgage was to buy out 
her ex-partner. Both Ms O, and London  and Country, accepted that the cost of the existing 
mortgage went up after Ms O and her ex-partners fixed rate expired on 31 August. I didnt 
Ref: DRN63849634have information  about the previous joint mortgage. But I thought  it was reasonable to 
assume that Ms O was only liable for half of this increase on the joint mortgage  monthly  
payment.
Ms O complained that London and Country  didnt tell the lender about her self-employed  
income on the application form. She said the lender  told her this. I didnt have evidence from 
the lender, because theyre not party to this complaint about London and Country. But I had 
looked at the application  form which London  and Country submitted to the lender in June, 
and as Ive set out above, this clearly  stated that Ms Os gross annual  pay was £34,930 and 
her net self-employed annual profit was £8,465. I also saw from the brokers notes  that Ms O 
was emailed a copy  of this application  form on more than one occasion.  So I didnt agree 
that London and Country  omitted Ms Os self-employment income from the application form.
I went on to consider whether or not London and Country should have anticipated the fact 
that the lender would ask for additional information about Ms Os self-employment. I didnt 
consider that it should have done. It had asked her for two years of tax year overviews, and 
two years of tax calculations. And I agreed  that different lenders would have  different policies 
about the level of detail  they needed.
Brokers are not responsible for the progress of a mortgage after the offer, which  in Ms Os 
case was issued on 9 August.  There are very many factors  which  can affect  completion,  
even when its a remortgage without a property purchase being involved. I noted  that this 
remortgage involved a split between previous joint borrowers, which  Ms O had said was 
particularly difficult and stressful, and this situation  may well have been reflected in the 
length of time the legal process took. But in any case, from an application  submitted to the 
lender in late June,  a completion in late September is not unusual.
London and Country was also not responsible for whatever additional information the lender 
required. I find that it was at fault for not sending on information between 2 and 11 July, and 
this did cause an overall delay to the production of mortgage offer. I also find that it was at 
fault for not sending on information between 31 July and 8 August. This didnt cause  an 
overall delay because other information was still pending, but it was still a failing by London 
and Country.
compensation
I looked first at financial loss. I had found that London and Countrys adviser twice failed to 
send on information  promptly to the lender, and that the first of these, from 2 to 11 July, 
caused a delay to the production of the mortgage  offer. Nine days delay, at the rate of 
£171.76 previously  calculated by the parties for 19 days, equates to £81.36 financial loss. 
However, I bore in mind that this financial  loss would have  been  suffered jointly  by both 
parties to the earlier mortgage, so it was likely that Ms Os actual loss was half of this, ie 
£40.68.
I went on to look at the distress the brokers failings caused.
As Ive set out above, the documents show that from 24 July Ms O was expressing  concern 
about timescales to London and Country.  Then,  and later, she said she wanted  to complete 
on 31 August because this was when the current fixed rate expired,  and the cost would  go 
up. I couldnt see any reference  to Ms Os personal  domestic circumstances until her second 
complaint letter to London and Country  on 26 September. I accepted  Ms Os account  of what  
she was suffering, but I couldnt expect London  and Country to have  tried to prioritise her 
Ref: DRN63849635application on that basis, when shed given  the broker a different reason for wanting to 
complete by the end of August. And London and Country had very little influence on the 
extra information the lender required, and none at all on the legal work. So even if the broker 
had known about Ms Os situation, I considered it wouldnt  have been able to ensure that the 
remortgage completed by her preferred date at the end of 31 August.
As the investigator  explained to Ms O, this service doesnt investigate sick leave from work  
and claims for personal injury compensation. Nor do we award  compensation on an hourly 
rate, as Ms O has calculated. But in any case I found that there  was no evidence  that 
London and Country knew about Ms Os domestic  situation at the time.
Having taken all these  factors  into account, I considered that it would be fair for London and 
County to pay Ms O £40.68 for financial loss, and £250 for the distress caused by its delays.
responses to my provisional  decision
London and Country accepted my provisional decision.
Ms O didnt accept the provisional decision. She said she was disappointed and she raised  
two specific points:
-She said it was wrong to assume  that shed paid half the increased cost of the previous 
joint mortgage. Shed paid it all. She said she had paid the mortgage  payments and all 
household expenses,  which she could  demonstrate  through bank statements. Her ex-
partner had left owing  her a significant amount of money,  including  the increased  
mortgage cost. So she wanted the financial compensation figure  increased  to reflect that.
-Ms O also said she didnt know  what criteria I had used to reduce the compensation 
figure for distress. She said it appeared I had arbitrarily reduced it and had thereby 
significantly minimised the impact  of the delays.  She said that every day shed lived in 
the house with her partner had been an extra day when shed been threatened and 
subjected to violence and intimidation. She had had her young child with her. It had had 
such an impact  on her that she hadnt  been able to work, so she wanted  the figure 
increased.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In particular Ive looked at what Ms O 
said in her response to the provisional  decision.
who was responsible for the cost of the previous joint mortgage
What matters is who was responsible for the cost of the previous joint mortgage, not who 
paid it. I think its most  unlikely that on a joint mortgage, Ms Os ex-partner wouldnt be liable 
for his share. 
In regard to who actually paid the cost of the previous joint mortgage, Ms O hasnt sent us 
the evidence which she says would prove that she alone paid all of the previous joint 
mortgage. But in any case, evidence that a mortgage payment came  out of one partys bank 
account doesnt necessarily prove that that party was unequally paying  the whole amount  
sometimes theres an agreement for the other  party to pay some  other  joint bills instead. If 
Ref: DRN63849636Ms Os ex-partner didnt  pay his share,  that would be something for her lawyer  to sort out as 
part of the legal settlement. It wasnt something  which was a financial loss to Ms O which 
had been caused by London and Country.
compensation for distress
Theres no set, fixed, tariff or published  criteria for compensation for distress.  And as I set 
out in my provisional  decision, this service  doesnt  investigate sick leave from work and 
claims for personal injury  compensation.  Our website gives a guide to how this service  
reaches its decisions  about  what would be fair and reasonable compensation in all the 
circumstances of a complaint.
As I sett out in my provisional  decision, from 24 July onwards, Ms O was telling London and 
Country that she wanted to complete on 31 August because that was when her current  fixed 
rate expired  and the cost would go up. She didnt mention  any upsetting urgent personal 
circumstances until her second complaint letter to London and Country  on 26 September. Its 
not possible to say that London and Country  should have acted faster  in view of Ms Os 
personal situation, when she hadnt told it. And in any case, London and Country  had little 
power over what information the lender required, and none at all on the legal work. Given  
what Ms O has told us about her situation,  its quite possible this would have impacted on 
any legal  work delays. So Im not persuaded that London and Country should pay more  than 
£250 compensation for distress caused by twice failing to send on information  promptly  to 
the lender.
Having reconsidered  all the evidence, I see no reason to depart  from my original 
conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I intend  to order London and Country Mortgages Ltd to pay
Ms O:
-£40.68 for financial loss, and 
-£250 for the distress caused by its delays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2019. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6384963