K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and registered a fraud 
prevention marker  against him without due cause.
background
Between 14 and 18 March 2018 a series  of payments were made into Mr Zs account. This 
money was spent between 19 and 22 March.  On 23 March Barclays  received  notification 
from one of the banks  the original payments had come from, that the payments were  made  
up of fraudulent funds.  Barclays reviewed  Mr Zs account and on 9 April they closed his 
account with immediate effect  and escalated their concerns to Cifas  to be registered on the 
national fraud database  for misuse of facility.  
Mr Z explained to this service that he had been  used as an unwitting  money  mule.  He was at 
university and a friend (who well call Mr A) asked if he could use his account to receive  
money from his parents  as he didnt have one of his own. Mr Z said that at the time he was 
nave to the fact these  were fraudulent funds and was simply trying  to help a friend. He said 
he had met Mr A at university as they had lived in the same university halls. Mr Z said he is 
no longer in contact  with Mr A and has reported  him to the relevant authorities.  
Mr Z told us that he withdrew  money and made transactions on Mr As behalf  after the 
money was received. He admits that he had some benefit of the funds as the spending  
included Mr Z accompanying Mr A on a trip to London for a few days.  The transactions 
included a hire car, hotel  costs, cash withdrawals, shopping, restaurants, bank transfers and 
other expenses. He said he didnt realise  there was anything wrong with this, as he thought 
that the funds  belonged to Mr A. 
Mr Z complained to Barclays after his account was closed and the Cifas marker  was loaded. 
They didnt agree they had done  anything wrong,  and felt that it was most likely Mr Z had 
conspired with Mr A with regards to the fraudulent funds so the account  closure  and Cifas  
marker were  both completed  correctly. They thought:
 
if Mr Z had been targeted to launder  money  by a fraudster, Mr A would have likely 
asked him to transfer or withdraw the money  quickly and give it to him; and
it would  be unusual  for a fraudster to spend the funds with an innocent  third party 
(Mr Z). 
Mr Z wasnt happy so he complained to our service.  Initially, an investigator recommended  
that the complaint be upheld as they didnt feel there was enough evidence to justify 
Barclays escalating their concerns to Cifas to register on the national  fraud  database. 
However, Mr Zs complaint  was reviewed after we received  further evidence  from Barclays  
and the investigator  recommended  that it was not upheld. This was because  the new 
evidence included information from the hire car company  and Mr Zs university  that meant 
she didnt think he had been an unwitting  money mule, rather she thought it was most  likely 
that Mr Z was aware the funds were  fraudulent  and willingly spent them.  
Mr Z didnt  agree. He maintained that he had been an unwitting  money  mule  and as such his 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN63575982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The marker that Barclays asked to be applied  is for misuse of facility. The misuse relates to 
using the account to receive fraudulent funds. For Barclays to record this, they dont need to 
be able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Z is guilty  of an offence. But they are 
expected to be able to demonstrate that there  are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud 
or financial crime has been committed or attempted. They must also be able to show that the 
evidence theyve based this on is clear, relevant and rigorous such  that it could confidently 
report the conduct of Mr Z to the police  though  this doesnt mean that they must make  
such a report. 
The alleged fraud or financial crime here relates  to Mr Zs account being  used to receive and 
utilise fraudulent  funds. Though these actions  alone  would not be enough  to register a Cifas 
marker against Mr Z. Barclays  would also need to be satisfied that the evidence  shows  that 
Mr Z was deliberately dishonest in his actions, rather than merely unwitting as he is 
suggesting he was. The relevant finding  for me to make, is not specifically  what  I conclude 
was most likely to have been Mr Zs intentions and actions in relation to the funds. Rather, 
my role is to determine whether I think Barclays were entitled escalate  its concerns to Cifas  
based on the available evidence. I think, on balance, Barclays were entitled to do so. And Ill 
explain why. 
It is not in dispute  that the funds  that entered Mr Zs account were fraudulent  and he didnt 
have any legitimate reason to receive  these into his account. It is also not in dispute  that 
Mr Z did benefit from the utilisation of these  funds. So, I have carefully  considered whether 
Barclays could conclude  he was deliberately  dishonest in the receipt and utilisation  of these 
funds and not an unwitting  money mule. Having  done so, I do think  there is enough  evidence  
to suggest that Barclays could  reasonably conclude Mr Z had been deliberately dishonest. 
Some of the money  was spent on accommodation for the trip to London. After further 
questioning from our investigator, Mr Z explained that there had been  a group of four of them 
staying in the accommodation  Mr Z, Mr A, Mr B (a friend of Mr Zs), and Mr C (a friend of 
Mr As who met them in London). He explained that they originally booked the 
accommodation for two nights but ended up extending their trip by another two days. He 
explained this is why there were two transfers  to Mr B  he had paid for the extra nights in 
the accommodation. Mr Z said that there  were  two payments as they had extended  the stay 
twice by one night each time so there were two additional bookings.  Mr Z explained that the 
group stayed in the same  apartments  for the four days, but were given a new room when 
they extended the booking. 
Ive reviewed evidence  from the accommodation company. It showed that the initial  booking  
was indeed made for four individuals  but only for one night. The next booking  was made for 
only two people for two nights, in a different property owned  by the same company. These 
dates match with two hotel satisfaction  survey  emails Mr Z shared  with us, but dont match  
up with the version  of events provided by Mr Z. This includes the number  of extensions 
made, number of nights  they stayed and the number of guests staying. His testimony was 
that his friend, Mr B, returned in the hire car with him and Mr A, which  I find strange given 
that only two people seemed to stay in the accommodation for the final two of the three  
Ref: DRN63575983nights. Presumably this would be Mr Z and Mr B, as Mr Zs testimony  was that Mr B paid for 
the extension  of the stay. This would  also seem unusual as it would mean Mr A was paying 
for Mr Zs accommodation whilst not even  being  present himself. 
It also doesnt explain why two payments were made to Mr B, as only one extension appears 
to have been made but money  was transferred to Mr B twice.  These  inconsistencies 
undermine the credibility of Mr Zs testimony.  And I think the inconsistencies between  Mr Zs 
account and the evidence  provided  by the hotel demonstrates, on balance, it is most likely 
Mr Z was spending the money for his own benefit  and for friends he had with him. 
Further expenses on Mr Zs account related to hiring  a car which  Mr Z said was used to drive 
himself, Mr A and Mr B to London and back.  I have seen evidence  from the car hire 
company that shows the car was hired  in Mr Zs name and that Mr Z provided his driving 
license at the time of hire. The car was hired  for the sole use of Mr Z, no additional drivers 
were listed  or present at the time he hired  the car. They said he paid for damage and wasnt 
accompanied by anyone. Mr Z said this is because, Mr A didnt have a valid drivers  license.  
Barclays have purported  that as this shows that only he benefitted  from the funds, the Cifas 
loading was justified.  I wouldnt  go as far as Barclays   I do think Mr Zs testimony is a 
plausible explanation for why Mr Z would have hired the car. But I do think it is unusual that 
Mr Z retained the funds  and took responsibility for much of the spending including the hire 
car, though  I will return to this point  in more detail below.  
Mr Z told our service that he met Mr A at university when they lived in shared  university  
accommodation together. He also provided  further details such as the course  Mr A was 
taking, his age and a photograph.  Our investigator contacted the university and provided the 
details of Mr A. The university  confirmed  that this person  had never been a student there.  I 
have considered whether Mr A could have  lied to Mr Z about  being a student  there,  but Mr 
Zs account  is that they met living in university  halls - which  would not be available  to rent to 
a non-student.  When combining this with the fact Mr A wasnt  present or linked to the hire 
car at all, I am not persuaded that Mr A exists.  If he does exist, Mr Zs testimony that he met 
him in university  halls as a student cannot be accurate. So I think it is more likely that Mr Z 
was responsible for the receipt  and utilisation of the fraudulent funds and on balance, its 
unlikely there was a third party  involved.  
There is no set pattern of spending that every  fraudster  or every money mule follows, so a 
finding cannot be made in full on this basis. However, if Mr Z was being  used as an unwitting  
money mule  it does seem unusual that Mr A would not ask him to withdraw  or transfer  the 
money on quickly. Instead, the money  remained in Mr Zs account  and was used over 
several days, and it is not in dispute  that Mr Z benefitted from the funds. It is clear  from the 
evidence from the hire car company  that there were periods of time that Mr Z must have 
been alone in possession  of his card, which means he had total control of the funds and how 
they were spent. This seems an unlikely scenario if Mr Z was being used as an unwitting 
money mule  as Mr A would have to put a significant  level of trust in Mr Z. 
Further to this, there were  transactions which Mr Z has said he didnt recognise that include 
restaurants he has visited prior to the fraudulent credits, and money sent to a payee  whom 
he has paid before. So, whilst he is denying making  these payments, he doesnt deny 
making the earlier ones.  Furthermore, having reviewed previous activity on Mr Zs account I 
think the spending looks broadly similar before and after the fraudulent  credits  were 
deposited and spent. This includes  cash withdrawals similar to those Mr Z made  before and 
after the fraudulent credits  in terms of amounts and frequency, and spending money with the 
same or similar companies as Mr Z did before and after the fraudulent credits. I think  this 
Ref: DRN63575984when combined  with the other evidence supports the assertion that Mr Z was responsible  for 
the funds and spending on his account,  not Mr A. 
So when considering all of this, I think that Barclays were entitled to refer Mr Z to Cifas. I am 
not satisfied with Mr Zs explanation that he was tricked  into being a money  mule  and think 
the review of the evidence demonstrates that Barclays were  entitled to believe that he was 
aware the credits  he received and spent  were fraudulent. As such I find that it is fair and 
reasonable that Barclays referred Mr Z to Cifas and closed his account.  As such  Barclays  
were also entitled  to close Mr Zs account  with immediate effect in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Zs account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6357598