K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains, with the help of a representative, that Facts & Figures Financial  Planners  
Ltd (F&F)  mis-sold her a Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) for the purpose of investing  in 
Harlequin.
background
In 2011, F&F advised Mrs M to transfer her existing pension provision to a SIPP. The SIPP  
was recommended so that Mrs M could invest in Harlequin. 
The background to this complaint was set out in detail in my provisional  decision, that 
decision is attached  and forms part of this decision. 
Mrs M agreed  with my decision. 
F&F disagreed, in summary it said: 
The tone of the provisional decision is predicated  on it being known at the time of the 
advice that Harlequin  was a scam,  which it was not. In 2011 there was nothing  to 
suggest the investment was bound to fail. 
F&F was the only party involved which advised against the course of action and was 
paid a small fee but is now being  asked to cover 100% of the complainants losses  
with no insurance. 
If Mrs M had approached F&F saying she wanted to invest 100% of her pension in 
Harlequin and F&F had simply written  back saying That would be a very high risk 
investment strategy and I dont  recommend it, surely it would not be held liable if 
Mrs M went  ahead  anyway; 
Here,  the only difference is that F&F went on to recommend a SIPP to hold the 
investments Mrs M was adamant she wanted to make. 
This case  was demonstrably conducted  on an insistent client basis  which the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) recognises  this is evidenced  by Mrs M signing 
the report confirming  that she had already made her mind  up and was adamant she 
wanted to go ahead.  
It did take into account the overall  investment strategy as required by the regulators 
alert quoted in the provisional  decision  detailed advice on the underlying 
investment was not required. 
It stated that it was a very high risk investment  strategy and it did not recommend it. 
It was entitled to rely on the facts Mrs M confirmed. 
F&F only recommended the SIPP because Mrs M was adamant  that that was what 
she wanted. 
What Mrs M is now saying is completely  at odds with what  she confirmed at the time 
of the advice and she is committing an offence  under the Fraud  Act. 
We are seeking to apply standards which have  no basis  in applicable regulation. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached the case has been passed  back to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65990062The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
As I have explained above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this 
decision. A number  of the arguments  raised  by F&F in response to my provisional  decision 
cover issues  that I have already considered and addressed within  that decision, so I have  
not repeated my findings in respect  of all of these  at length again. 
F&Fs submissions focus on the fact that Mrs M was an insistent client and it treated her as 
such. In turn, F&F believes that it is not reasonable to hold it responsible for her investment 
losses. I have considered everything it has said but I do not agree. 
The nature of F&Fs advice
F&F disagree with my assessment of its advice. It remains confident that it took the 
underlying investment into account  and clearly  advised against it. 
Within the suitability report F&F does  say: 
You have already made a decision to invest in overseas property via a SIPP.  Using 
a single asset class for investment is a very high risk strategy but one which you are 
comfortable will bear fruit. However  this is not an investment  strategy that we 
recommend.
As I acknowledged in my provisional decision this does go some way toward F&F fulfilling its 
obligation to assess  the risk involved  with the intended investment strategy  but, I remain  of 
the view that this focuses  more on the risks involved with investing in one asset class rather  
than those involved in investing all of ones pension monies in a UCIS (Harlequin). The value 
added by and the clarity  of that statement is further  diluted by F&F making a number of 
references within the same letter to the fact that it is not giving investment advice, for 
example: 
We are providing no advice on your choice of investment for the SIPP.  We are 
merely facilitating your request to use your pension savings accrued to date for the 
desired overseas property investment.
And the recommendation given is: 
Recommendations Summary
Having considered your current  situation,  objectives and attitude to risk I recommend 
the following:
Switch your [name  of pension provider] Pension  to a SIPP with [name of SIPP  
provider].
Ref: DRN65990063I still do not think that this amounts to giving  clear advice in respect  of the overall  transaction 
taking into account  Mrs Ms circumstances, knowledge (relevant to the specific type of 
investment being  made /transaction being undertaken) and capacity for loss in line with the 
regulatory requirements applicable at the time. 
In any case, the recommendation  made was for Mrs M to transfer her pension  to a SIPP   
the purpose of which was to invest all of her monies  in Harlequin, an unregulated esoteric 
investment. 
That recommendation was not suitable. From  outset the pension  switch resulted in Mrs Ms 
pension  the purpose of which was to provide her an income in retirement  being  exposed 
to higher charges and an increased level of risk. Under the circumstances, I am not 
persuaded on the balance  of the evidence that Mrs M had the knowledge or experience to 
really understand  the risks involved in the transaction or that she had the capacity  for loss to 
bear these  risks. 
Treatment of Mrs M as an insistent client
Based on the evidence  I have seen, Mrs M was treated  as an insistent client  from the outset 
of the transaction. It is not clear on what basis F&F did this as it dealt with Mrs M by post 
only and I have not seen any correspondence  from her, which pre-dated the suitability letter  
that would  indicate she was adamant  that she would disregard any advice she received. In 
any case, F&F was required to give suitable  advice and it failed to do so. 
There has been much debate  as to whether or not F&F advised Mrs M against  investing in 
Harlequin. F&F did include some risk warnings within the suitability report  and the statement 
that it was not an investment strategy it recommended,  as quoted above.
Ultimately and most importantly, the suitability letter ends in F&F recommending  that Mrs M 
switch her pension  provision into a SIPP  the sole purpose of which  was to invest  in 
Harlequin  this advice was not suitable,  for the reasons I set out above  and in my 
provisional decision. 
Mrs M was never given the opportunity to be insistent  as she was never  proffered  suitable 
advice to go against. In turn, I am not persuaded that Mrs M was genuinely an insistent client  
 or, that F&F fulfilled its obligation to give suitable advice.
The process followed
I set out the sequence of events and the correspondence exchanged in some  detail in my 
provisional decision, so I have  not done this again  here. Briefly, to highlight the process 
followed, the relevant documents were issued and signed as follows: 
Fact Find  printed (along with pre-populated  answers in some parts)  on 25 May 
2011, denoted as having been completed by F&F on 20 June 2011, signed  by Mrs M 
on 24 June 2011 and by F&F on 28 June 2011.  
Suitability Letter  printed  on 25 May 2011  and signed by Mrs M on 24 June 2011. 
The unsigned insistent client  declaration  printed on 25 May 2011. 
SIPP application form  signed on 24 June 2011. 
Ref: DRN65990064So, the suitability  report (which assumes that Mrs M is adamant  that she wants to go ahead 
with the Harlequin  investment regardless) and the insistent client declaration were 
completed around a month before the fact-find was fully completed and Mrs M confirmed 
that the detail  contained  within  it was a true reflection of her circumstances. Also,  the fact-
find, suitability  report and SIPP application  were  all signed on the same  day. 
In light of my findings in respect of the suitability the process followed is not necessarily  
critical to the outcome  of the complaint  but I think it does shed light on the approach taken to 
advice in this particular case.  
I find the process followed indicative of a predetermined approach  in this instance  
particularly when taking  into account  that F&F was only dealing with Mrs M by post, so there  
were no conversations taking place  in the background  to potentially justify what happened.  
Even if that is not the case,  it is not reflective of a genuine insistent  client  process. 
What would have  happened if F&F had given Mrs M suitable  advice?
I do not doubt that when Mrs M was referred  to F&F it is most likely that she thought moving 
her pension to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin  was a good  idea,  based  on what she had been 
told up until that point.  A lot of this information  most  likely came from the unregulated 
introducer  the involvement  of whom F&F was aware of. This did not take away  or 
otherwise negate  F&Fs  duty of care and obligation to give suitable advice. To the contrary, 
under the circumstances,  this made  it even  more important for F&F to give clear and 
comprehensive advice,  which  would have been  for Mrs M to retain her existing pension  
arrangements. 
In the suitability report F&F says that Mrs M received advice to invest in Harlequin from the 
unregulated introducer. If this was F&Fs understanding  of what  happened, it at the very 
least, ought to have  explained the roles  of the parties involved and the implications  of this, in 
particular highlighting  that the introducer  was not allowed to give investment advice in that 
capacity. 
I am satisfied that if F&F had clearly advised against  switching to a SIPP in order  to invest  in 
Harlequin  highlighting its role as a opposed  to that of the unregulated introducer  it is 
more likely than not that Mrs M would  have listened  to this. In turn, I dont think  that Mrs M 
would have ended up in a SIPP invested  in Harlequin if F&F had done what I have found it 
ought to have  and, that it is fair and reasonable for F&F to compensate  Mrs M for her 
losses in full. 
As I set out above, within this decision I have focused on responding to the points raised in 
response to my provisional  decision. I have not reiterated my findings in respect of every  
aspect of the complaint here.  For the sake of completeness, in summary,  I have found  that: 
F&F did not give clear and comprehensive  advice in respect of the overall  
transaction. 
To fulfil its duties F&F had to know its client, act in her best interests and give 
suitable advice.  I dont think that it could  fulfil these  duties without considering the 
overall transaction, including; the suitability  of the switches  and the investment  
strategy that the SIPP was taken out to facilitate.
The recommendation given was to transfer to a SIPP  the sole purpose of this was 
to invest in Harlequin  that advice was not suitable taking into account  the overall 
transaction. I have  not seen sufficient evidence  that Mrs M had enough knowledge 
Ref: DRN65990065and experience to fully appreciate the risks involved with the transaction  or, the 
requisite capacity for loss.
Mrs M was not a genuine  insistent client and by following  a process that treated 
Mrs M as an insistent  client  before  advice  had even been given F&F was not acting  
in her best interests. 
In this instance, taking into account  Mrs Ms circumstances, it is more likely  than not 
that  if F&F had provided clear and comprehensive advice against transferring to a 
SIPP for the purpose of investing  Harlequin   Mrs M would not have ended up in a 
SIPP invested in Harlequin, even when  taking into account the role of third parties.  
So, the full measure of Mrs Ms loss stems  from F&Fs failure  to give suitable  advice  
and it is fair to ask F&F to compensate her for that loss. 
I have reached these findings  on the basis of the available contemporaneous  evidence  and 
the submissions provided by both parties.
fair compensation
Mrs M should  be put as closely to the position she would  likely now be in if she had not been  
given unsuitable  advice as possible. As I have explained above I think that Mrs M ought to 
have been told that switching to a SIPP was not suitable for her  and, I think  that if she had 
been given suitable advice she would have listened to this.
F&F should  follow  the below steps to compensate Mrs M:
1)Contact the provider of the plan that was transferred into the SIPP  and ask for a 
notional valuation of what the policy would now be worth.  For the purposes of the 
notional calculation the provider should be told to assume no monies would have 
been transferred  away from the policy and that the monies in the policy would have 
remained invested in an identical  manner to that which existed prior to the actual 
transfer until the date of calculation.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation from the provider  then the 
business should instead arrive at a notional valuation  by assuming the monies  would 
have enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total 
Return Index. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return  that could have been 
achieved over the period in question.
oMrs M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
oThe FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices  with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take 
some risk to get a higher  return.
oAlthough it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close  enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
2)Obtain the current  transfer value of Mrs Ms SIPP, including  any outstanding charges.
It may be difficult  to establish the actual value of the investment held within Mrs Ms 
SIPP. This is complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be 
readily sold on the open market) as in this case. So, the value should be assumed to 
Ref: DRN65990066be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  F&F should take ownership  of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation once the loss has been 
established as set out within this decision.
If F&F is unable  to purchase the investment the value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. F&F may require that Mrs M provides an undertaking 
to pay F&F any amount  she may receive  from the investment  in the future.  That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
that from the pension plan.  F&F will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
3)Deduct the transfer value  of the SIPP as established under step 2 from the sum total 
of the notional values established under  step 1  the resulting  sum is Mrs Ms loss.
Interest should  be added  to the resulting  sum at the rate of 8% simple from the date 
of this decision through until the date of payment.
Mrs M should  be aware that tax may be payable by her on the 8% interest element of 
any redress paid.
The loss established  plus interest represents the overall loss position (other than the 
five years SIPP fees and distress and inconvenience payments  both of which are 
addressed in steps 4 and 5 respectively),  if any.
The business should arrange  for a suitable pension arrangement for Mrs M to be 
augmented by a sum equivalent  to the overall  loss position. An allowance may be 
made for any available  relief if the payment is treated by the pension  provider  as a 
relievable member contribution.
Alternatively, if it is not possible to pay the compensation  into a suitable  pension 
arrangement, or if doing so would give rise to pension protection/pension allowance  
or pension  contribution issues,  then the business  should instead pay the overall loss 
owing as a cash  sum to Mrs M. But, had it been possible to pay into a pension 
arrangement, it would have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total residual 
amount owing should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ms most likely marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  For example, if Mrs M is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in 
retirement, the notional  allowance  would  equate  to a reduction in the total amount 
equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. If Mrs M would  have been  able to take a 
tax-free cash lump sum from any proportion  of the redress  owing, then the notional 
allowance for income tax to be applied to that proportion should  only apply to 75% of 
the monies in question  (the residual  25% being  considered to be paid with no 
notional allowance  for income  tax as it would have been  paid as a tax-free cash lump  
sum).
4)Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mrs M to the SIPP
Had F&F done what I have concluded it ought to have done  then I do not think there 
would be a SIPP. It is not fair that Mrs M continues to pay the annual  SIPP  fees if 
Ref: DRN65990067that SIPP cannot be closed. Ideally the business would take over the Harlequin 
holding to allow the new SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest  way of putting Mrs M 
back in the position she would have  been  in. However, third parties are involved and 
we do not have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I 
think it is fair that  if the SIPP cant be closed now  F&F pay Mrs M an upfront lump  
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the most recent 
years fees).  This should provide a reasonable period for the parties  to arrange for 
the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways they may want  to seek  to achieve 
that. It will also provide Mrs M with some  confidence that she will not be subject to 
further fees.
5)Pay Mrs M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs M has been caused 
significant distress by the loss of her pension  benefits. I think that a payment of £500  
is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Facts & Figures 
Financial Planners  Ltd to compensate her as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Nicola Curnow 
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M complains, with the help of a representative, that Facts & Figures Financial  Planners
Ltd (F&F) mis-sold her a Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) for the purpose of investing  in Harlequin.
background
Mrs M was referred  to F&F by an unregulated business.
The financial  review form completed  at the time says:
Ref: DRN65990068The questions  here have been specifically designed to help your adviser provide advice that 
meets your needs in respect of your pension  switch only.  As you have asked us to limit our 
advice to this area our advice can only be based on the information provided. If you require a 
more detailed financial audit please  just ask!
Within the form there is a list of general financial objectives, the only one marked as high priority is 
maintaining your standard of living  in retirement.
There are descriptions of the various attitudes to risk. Aggressive  is described as:
You are prepared  to invest in asset based investments worldwide. You are comfortable with 
investments in high risk funds such as individual shares and even unquoted investments.
It is likely  that a significant proportion of total funds would  be in equities. You accept that 
significant investment volatility is almost inevitable  but are hoping for better overall long term 
performance.
Mrs Ms attitude to risk is listed as aggressive. The form appears to have been completed I part 
electronically and in part by hand. The attitude to risk was input electronically. It was signed on 24 
June 2011.
The suitability report is dated  25 May 2011 and signed on 24 June 2011.
Under present position, objectives & priorities the report confirms that:
You have  received advice from [name of adviser] of Atlantic Overseas Investments to invest 
in an overseas  property  with Harlequin.  You have told me you wish to proceed with this 
investment and want to use your existing  personal pension funds in order to do so.
That decision made you have chosen not to go into further details about your personal 
circumstances with me, preferring to treat this as a standalone transaction.
You have  asked me to recommend  a pension  plan which will enable  you to invest your funds 
in property, held offshore.
To achieve this objective you need to invest in a Self Invested Personal  Pension Plan.
You have  a Section 32 pension plan with [name of pension provider].
You have  already completed your research on the overseas property investment  and I have 
not provided  you with any advice in respect of that investment. You are quite adamant  that 
this is what you want to do and have  expressly instructed  us merely to facilitate the pension 
switch(es).
You recognise that there may be other areas of financial planning in which you could  benefit 
from advice; we agreed that you would contact us if you wanted to review any other areas  in 
the near future, however  your priority at this stage is to execute the overseas property 
investment only.
In the section  discussing attitude to risk the report says:
You have already made a decision to invest in overseas property via a SIPP.  Using  a single 
asset class for investment  is a very high risk strategy but one which you are comfortable will 
bear fruit. However  this is not an investment strategy that we recommend.
The report goes on to describe Mrs Ms existing personal  pension plan and concludes  by saying:
Your plan does not enable you to meet your investment objective as there is no self 
investment option.
Switching this fund to another  plan would not cause the loss of any other benefit you are 
currently entitled to.
Ref: DRN65990069The report describes various types of pensions  and then goes onto set out F&Fs recommendations:
As you have already decided  to invest in a single  overseas property  we cannot make a fair 
comparison of past performance. But you believe that the returns from your chosen overseas 
property will exceed  those available elsewhere and are equally  satisfied that if this not 
achieved you will be able to fund your retirement from elsewhere. You are not unduly 
concerned about the risks of this investment.
And
We are providing no advice on your choice of investment for the SIPP.  We are merely 
facilitating your request  to use your pension savings  accrued to date for the desired overseas  
property investment.
The recommendations  are summarised  as:
Having considered your current situation, objectives and attitude to risk I recommend the 
following:
Switch your [name of pension provider]  Pension to a SIPP  with [name of SIPP 
provider].
On 8 June  2011, F&F issued an addendum  recommending a different SIPP provider.
On 28 June 2011, F&F wrote to Mrs M saying:
Thank you for your enquiry.  I have pleasure  to confirm that we have received your completed  
Fact Find and authority letters.
We will now write to your current pension provider(s) to obtain the information required for us 
to prepare our report. We are now very much in the hands of the provider(s) and it can take 
up to six weeks for them to respond. We will of course issue our reports  as soon  as possible.
Our standard fee for switching existing pensions into regulated investments is 3% of the 
amount switched. This is normally deducted from the pension fund on completion but you do 
have the option of paying separately by cheque. I note that you have declined  our offer of a 
detailed investment  report  on the proposed Harlequin  investment at a fee of £675 as you 
have already received  other advice.
In its submissions F&F confirmed that it dealt with Mrs M exclusively by post.  Along  with its comments 
F&F sent us an insistent  client  summary addendum; this is dated  25 May 2011 and says:
Description of Advice Provided:
We always recommend that clients  diversify  their pension & investment holdings.
Irrespective of your very aggressive  attitude to risk we recommend against buying  individual 
properties offshore and off plan as it is such a high risk investment strategy.
And
Why client  is proceeding  against advice:
You do not regard this pension  as material you have other plans to supplement retirement.
You had already settled on this investment when you approached us.
Ref: DRN659900610You have  conducted your own research into Harlequin  and are relying on other advice  in 
respect of this investment. You remain very confident of success.
You merely  require an IFA to establish a SIPP  as this is the only way you can invest  into a 
Harlequin property.
This form is not signed.
F&F is listed  as Mrs Ms IFA on the SIPP application form and the unregulated  introducer is listed as 
the investment  manager.  This was also signed on 24 June 2011. This was sent to the SIPP provider  
on 29 June 2011.
In 2015 Mrs M complained  to F&F, it did not uphold  the complaint.  Unhappy with its response Mrs M 
referred her complaint to this service.
F&Fs original submissions:
It agrees that it is not possible to assess the suitability of a SIPP without taking into account 
where the funds were  to be invested.  It established where the funds  were to be invested 
(Harlequin) and took steps to ascertain Mrs Ms knowledge and experience,  her attitude to 
risk, and her investment  objectives.
Mrs M approached F&F wanting  to invest in Harlequin. At that point she had already received 
advice in respect  of that investment and paid a non-refundable deposit.
Mrs M decided for herself  that she had an aggressive attitude  to risk and selected  this on the 
fact find that was sent to her by post.  The suitability  report reflected this and described what  
this meant in terms of investment parameters. Mrs M signed that suitability  letter  confirming 
that she had read and understood it.
The suitability  report stressed  the risks involved  in investing in Harlequin and that it was a 
very high risk strategy that it did not recommend.
Mrs M was offered  a more comprehensive financial review nevertheless in this case F&F did 
assess the suitability of Harlequin and recommended that Mrs M not proceed with this.
F&F regard Mrs M as an insistent client and it followed all of the steps set out in the 
regulators guidance on dealing with insistent clients.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should upheld.  F&F disagreed,  in 
summary, it said:
Mrs M was an insistent  client and it followed the correct process for dealing  with insistent 
clients.
It clearly did consider  the underlying investment, recommended  against it and included  risk 
warnings within its report.
It also offered a serious alternative but Mrs M chose to ignore its advice   the very definition 
of an insistent client.
F&F went  on to describe  its process  for dealing with postal  pension switches like Mrs Ms:
Receive enquiry
Post fact find, terms of business and authority letter  to client for signature and return under 
cover of letter confirming its fees
Once the fact find and authority were returned, issue standard questionnaire to ceding  
scheme(s)
On receipt  of details from ceding scheme conduct appropriate comparison  with SIPP (based 
on FSA switch template)
Post report  to client
On receipt  of signed report from client issue discharge form(s) from ceding scheme(s) 
together with SIPP  application paperwork
Ref: DRN659900611On receipt  of signed SIPP paperwork issue this to the SIPP for processing  advising them to 
expect hear from client re Harlequin  investment.
Because agreement could not be reached, this case has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
What did F&F do?
There is some dispute  as to what F&F did. In its submissions to this service F&F has said that it 
considered the suitability of investing in Harlequin and advised against it as well as advising on the 
SIPP.
I have quoted the documentation from the point of sale that we have been  provided in some detail. My 
emphasis below in bold.
On the one hand, amongst other things, F&F says:
You have already completed your research  on the overseas property  investment and I have 
not provided  you with any advice in respect of that investment. You are quite adamant  that 
this is what  you want to do and have expressly instructed us merely to facilitate the 
pension switches .
And
We are providing no advice on your choice of investment  for the SIPP.  We are merely 
facilitating your request  to use your pension savings  accrued to date for the desired overseas  
property investment.
On the other hand it says:
You have already made a decision to invest in overseas property via a SIPP.  Using  a single 
asset class for investment  is a very high risk strategy but one which you are comfortable will 
bear fruit. However this is not an investment strategy that we recommend. 
So, arguably  F&F did asses the risk involved in the intended investment strategy. That said,  that 
comment appears to be referring  more  to the risks involved with putting all of your eggs  in one 
basket than to Harlequin specifically  or its suitability for an individual in Mrs Ms circumstances. There  
are also a number of references to the fact that it was not providing advice on the investment  and that 
it was only finding a pension  to facilitate Mrs M chosen investment strategy.
Taking everything into account I dont think that this reasonably amounts to providing comprehensive 
advice in respect  of the overall transaction  and, in any case, the suitability report ends in positive 
advice for Mrs M to switch  her pension to a SIPP,  the sole purpose of which was investing  in 
Ref: DRN659900612Harlequin. So, I dont think that F&F did in fact clearly give advice on the overall transaction  or advise 
against the transaction  which, for the reasons set out below is what I think ought to have done.
Could F&F limit its advice to the switch to the SIPP?
F&F appear to broadly  agree that the SIPP could not be considered in isolation   but, for the sake  of 
completeness I have  set out my view of F&Fs responsibilities under the circumstances.
F&F was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs to be 
considered through  the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles  for businesses  in particular, 
principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable  
care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1  required F&F to gather the necessary 
information about Mrs Ms knowledge and experience  relevant  to the specific type of designated 
investment, her financial  situation and investment objectives. This was to enable it to make a 
recommendation which  was suitable for Mrs M.
COBS 9.2.2 required  F&F to gather enough information to ensure that the recommendation;  met her 
objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and had sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things,  to fulfil its duties F&F had to know  its client, act in her best interests and 
give suitable  advice. I dont think that it could  fulfil these duties without considering the overall 
transaction, including; the suitability of the switches and the investment strategy that the SIPP was 
taken out to facilitate.
In 2013, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (then Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued  an 
alert in relation to Advising on pension  transfers with a view to investing  pension monies into 
unregulated products  through  a SIPP. This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
This alert came  after F&Fs recommendation to Mrs M but the alert was issued because of issues that 
the regulator found when  reviewing  how some advisers  were operating based on existing  regulation. 
In other words, the alert was a reminder of existing obligations under the
COBS rules  it did not introduce a new set of obligations.
Here F&F was aware of the involvement of an unregulated third party. And, that the transactions 
involved Mrs M switching a significant amount  of her pension  provision, which was to be invested in a 
single unregulated esoteric  investment.
Ref: DRN659900613F&F should  have given suitable advice in respect of the overall transaction,  in line with the obligations 
set out above. It ought to have been clear to F&F that proceeding on the basis that it did was not 
acting in Mrs Ms best interests,  in fact quite  the opposite.
I have a number of concerns about F&Fs process in this particular case. The report  predates  the fact-
find and it assumes  apparently in advance  that Mrs M will proceed regardless of the advice  given. 
Taking everything into account it appears that the whole process was predetermined,  this is 
particularly concerning  given that F&F refers to advice having been given by an unregulated business 
and that it dealt with Mrs M by post only.
What would  suitable advice  have been?
Having concluded  that F&F ought to have  considered  the entirety of the transaction and given suitable 
advice, I have  thought about what suitable advice would  have been based on what I know about Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time.
F&F knew  that Mrs M was intending to put all of the monies from the switch into a single unregulated 
esoteric investment  specifically  Harlequin   in light of Mrs Ms circumstances, this was enough  for it 
to know  that the course of action was not suitable.
The switch resulted  in Mrs Ms pension  being subjected to higher charges and the investment 
exposed her pension funds to significant risk. I dont think there was any justification for this in this 
case. I have not seen any evidence  that Mrs M had sufficient knowledge  and experience  to fully 
appreciate the risks involved with the transaction  or, the requisite capacity for loss.
I think  that a reasonably competent  body of Independent Financial Advisers (IFA)  would have 
concluded that the switch was not suitable,  particularly when taking into account  the intended 
investment. And I think that this is the outcome that F&F ought to have reached had it properly 
assessed the suitability  of the overall  transaction.
So, F&F should have  unequivocally advised in the strongest possible of terms against the switch  and 
subsequent investment in Harlequin. This recommendation should  have included  a detailed 
explanation as to why the switch was not suitable and the risks involved. Any such recommendation 
ought to have  included a clear explanation of F&Fs  role in the transaction as the regulated  adviser as 
opposed that of the unregulated firm and the implications of this.
What would  Mrs M have done?
Having concluded  that F&F ought to have  advised  against  the switch to the SIPP for the purposes of 
investing in Harlequin, I have thought about what  if anything  Mrs M would have done  differently 
had she received suitable  advice.
I have not seen enough in this case to persuade me that Mrs M was likely to have ignored suitable  
advice from a regulated adviser  particularly,  if this had included a clear explanation as to why the 
intended course of action was unsuitable and that of the roles of the parties  involved.
Mrs M had at least been introduced to Harlequin  before F&Fs advice. She had made some initial 
commitment to invest including  paying  a deposit  based on what she had been told about the 
investment. As far as I am aware  the deposit was likely to have  been £1,000. At that point it would still 
have been possible  for Mrs M to not go ahead with the investment but she would  most likely  have lost 
her deposit.  Whilst  I dont  doubt that Mrs M would  not have been thrilled to lose this money, I am not 
persuaded that this would have led her to ignore regulated advice as set out above.
F&F has said that Mrs M was an insistent client and it treated her as such, it is confident that the 
process it followed  would have been in line with recent guidance on handling  insistent clients.  I dont  
agree. I think  that F&F failed at the first hurdle of this, it did not give suitable  advice, for the reasons  I 
Ref: DRN659900614have set out above and I am not persuaded that Mrs M would have insisted on proceeding  with the 
transaction if F&F had given suitable advice.
Taking everything into account, I am satisfied that if F&F had given suitable advice, Mrs M would not 
have transferred her pension. In turn, in this case, I dont  think that Mrs M would  have ended  up in a 
SIPP invested  in Harlequin if F&F had fulfilled its regulatory obligations and provided suitable  advice.
The involvement  of other parties
F&F did not recommend that Mrs M invest in Harlequin. It seems that she approached/was referred  to 
F&F with a view to invest  in Harlequin,  after the involvement of an unregulated business. So, Mrs M 
had started  along the path to invest in Harlequin by way of switching  her existing  pension prior to 
F&Fs involvement. In this case, I dont think that this takes  away from F&Fs responsibility for the 
losses that Mrs M has suffered. I will explain why.
F&F had a duty to provide suitable advice  taking into account the intended purpose of the SIPP and 
the source of the funds.  The involvement of other parties did not, in any way, negate the duty of care 
which it owed to Mrs M.
F&Fs paperwork refers  to Mrs M having received advice in respect Harlequin. The business that it 
was referring as having provided investment  advice was unregulated. If F&F believed that Mrs M had 
received investment advice from an unregulated business, it ought  to have been acutely aware  of the 
potential for consumer detriment under the circumstances. When giving its recommendation F&F 
should have highlighted to Mrs M that Atlantic Overseas was an unregulated introducer and that it 
was not under the same regulatory requirements  as it to act in her best interests and that it was not 
allowed to give investment advice.
The investment was made as a result of the switch  of Mrs Ms existing pension plan. The switch was 
made possible  through F&Fs involvement. And, I dont think  that these would have gone ahead  
without F&Fs actions, particularly if F&F had provided suitable advice as outlined above.
fair compensation
Mrs M should be put as closely to the position she would likely now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice as possible. As I have explained above I think that Mrs M ought to
have been told that switching to a SIPP was not suitable  for her  and, I think that if she had been 
given suitable advice she would have listened to this.
F&F should  follow the below steps to compensate  Mrs M:
6)Contact the provider of the plan that was transferred  into the SIPP and ask for a notional 
valuation of what  the policy would now be worth.  For the purposes of the notional calculation  
the provider should be told to assume no monies would have been transferred away from the 
policy and that the monies in the policy  would  have remained invested in an identical manner 
to that which existed  prior to the actual transfer until the date of calculation.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the provider  then the 
business should instead  arrive at a notional  valuation  by assuming the monies would have  
enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  Index. That 
is a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have been achieved over the period  in 
question.
oMrs M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
oThe FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a higher return.
Ref: DRN659900615oAlthough it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the 
index is close enough  to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure  of comparison  
given Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
7)Obtain  the current transfer value of Mrs Ms SIPP, including any outstanding  charges.
It may be difficult to establish the actual value  of the investment held within Mrs Ms SIPP. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily sold on the 
open market) as in this case. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. F&F should  take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying  a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the 
compensation once the loss has been established  as set out within this decision.
If F&F is unable to purchase the investment  the value should be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. F&F may require that Mrs M provides an undertaking  to pay F&F any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must  allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan.  
F&F will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
8)Deduct  the transfer value of the SIPP as established under  step 2 from the sum total of the 
notional values established under step 1  the resulting sum is Mrs Ms loss.
Interest should be added to the resulting  sum at the rate of 8% simple from the date of this 
decision through  until the date of payment.
Mrs M should be aware that tax may be payable by her on the 8% interest element of any 
redress paid.
The loss established  plus interest represents the overall loss position  (other  than the
five years SIPP fees and distress and inconvenience  payments  both of which are 
addressed in steps  4 and 5 respectively),  if any.
The business  should arrange for a suitable pension arrangement for Mrs M to be augmented 
by a sum equivalent  to the overall loss position. An allowance may be made  for any available 
relief if the payment is treated by the pension provider  as a relievable member contribution.
Alternatively, if it is not possible to pay the compensation into a suitable pension arrangement, 
or if doing so would give rise to pension  protection/pension allowance or pension contribution 
issues, then the business should instead pay the overall loss owing  as a cash  sum to Mrs M. 
But had it been possible  to pay into a pension  arrangement, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total residual amount owing should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Ms most likely  marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Mrs M is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. If Mrs M would have been able to take a tax-free cash lump sum from any 
proportion of the redress owing, then the notional  allowance for income tax to be applied to 
that proportion should only apply  to 75% of the monies in question (the residual 25% being  
considered to be paid with no notional allowance  for income tax as it would have been  paid as 
a tax-free cash lump sum).
9)Pay five years worth  of future fees owed by Mrs M to the SIPP
Had F&F done what I have  concluded it ought to have done then I do not think  there would be 
a SIPP. It is not fair that Mrs M continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if that SIPP cannot be 
closed. Ideally  the business  would take over the Harlequin holding  to allow the new SIPP to 
Ref: DRN659900616be closed. This is the fairest way of putting Mrs M back in the position she would  have been 
in. However, third parties are involved  and we do not have the power  to tell them what  to do. 
To provide  certainty to all parties, I think it is fair that  if the SIPP  cant be closed now  F&F 
pay Mrs M an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated  using 
the most recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties  to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number  of ways they may want to seek  to 
achieve that. It will also provide Mrs M with some confidence that she will not be subject to 
further fees.
10)Pay Mrs M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs M has been caused 
significant distress  by the loss of her pension benefits. I think that a payment of £500 is 
appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I uphold  Mrs Ms complaint and I intend 
to award redress  as above.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add as long as I receive it by 13 March  2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6599006