K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited mis-sold him a
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC)  plan.
background
Mr C met with one of Sun Lifes representatives  in 1995. The fact find recorded  that Mr C:
was 35 years old and earning around £15,900 year;
was a member of his employers OPS and his retirement age was 60;
wanted to supplement  his retirement  income and retire when he turned 55; and
had a goal of saving £50,000 by 2003 for a business  venture.
Sun Life recommended Mr C take out an FSAVC. His initial  contributions were £40 a month,  
increasing by 5% each  year. Mr C stopped making  payments  between  April and 
October 2006, before he closed his plan and transferred the funds in his FSAVC elsewhere.
Mr C complained to Sun Life in 2017  about  the way his FSAVC  was sold. He said he should 
have been advised to contribute to his employers in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(AVC) scheme instead. Sun Life didnt uphold his complaint. It said the documentation  from 
the sale shows Mr C:
appreciated the difference in costs and charges between the FSAVC and his 
employers in-house AVC;
appreciated the anonymity and flexibility of the FSAVC; and
could vary his retirement age with the FSAVC, which he wouldnt be able to with an 
AVC.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr C referred his complaint  to our service. One of our 
adjudicators contacted the OPS of Mr Cs former employer, which confirmed members could 
have contributed to an AVC. The rules  of the OPS confirmed the normal  retirement age was 
65. The rules  went  on to outline  that early retirement after the age of 50 was allowed  with the 
consent of the employer  and the schemes  trustees. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  He thought the letter  of recommendation 
showed the differences between AVCs  and FSAVCs were  discussed, and the advice to take 
out an FSAVC wasnt  unsuitable.
Mr Cs representative disagreed, in summary  saying Mr C hadnt been  provided with enough 
information; there was nothing  to show he was told what  the differences in costs and 
charges between AVCs  and FSAVCs were. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2019, explaining why I intended to uphold  this 
complaint. In summary, I thought Sun Life didnt make Mr C aware that his AVC was likely to 
have been lower in cost and provide better  value than the FSAVC.  I thought  that if Mr C had 
been made aware of this, he would have  in all likelihood have taken  out an AVC taking into 
account the potentially higher returns it could have provided. Im not persuaded that Mr C 
would still have chosen to incur the (probable)  higher charges involved in the FSAVC. If the 
advisor had explained that AVCs were likely to provide  better value for money then I think  
its reasonable to assume that  Mr C wouldve chosen to take advantage of his employers 
AVC. To put things  right, I recommended  Sun Life undertake a redress calculation in 
accordance with the FSAVC review guidance. 
Ref: DRN67819522Sun Life disagreed  with my provisional  decision.  It disagreed with my view of what it was 
required to do when  selling the FSAVC, and didnt think the rules I referred to applied  at the 
time of the sale. Having  carefully considered Sun Lifes comments, these dont change my 
provisional decision for the reasons  Ill explain below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I disagree  with our 
adjudicators conclusions and intend to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision,  I said that in May 1996,  the Personal  Investment Authority (the 
PIA - a predecessor of the Financial Conduct Authority) set out in a regulatory update that 
tied advisers should:
draw a customers attention to the in-house AVC scheme
discuss the differences  between the FSAVC  plan and the in-house AVC in generic 
terms, including the likely  lower charges of in-house AVC schemes
direct  the customer to their employer  or occupational pension scheme trustees  for 
further information about the in-house AVC option
In response to my provisional decision,  Sun Life asked where the PIA said it saw the 
regulatory update as a clarification of the existing rules. It said I should  reconsider the 
provisional decision I reached based on the rules referred to in my provisional decision.
Its correct that the PIA update was after the sale. But as explained in the provisional 
decision our understanding was that this was considered to be a clarification  of the existing  
rules. So the adviser should have followed the guidance set out by LAUTRO which  was the 
regulator at the time of this sale. The LAUTRO  Code of Conduct stated that life assurance 
company representatives  should:
have regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational pension scheme; and
give the consumer  all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in 
question.
So the adviser should have:
pointed out that AVCs  were available;
explained that AVCs were  likely  to provide better value for money;  and
recommended considering the AVC
Ive reconsidered  the information available from the time of the sale.  Sun Lifes adviser 
provided Mr C with a reasons why letter to confirm the advice given to him. This recorded  
that Mr C: 
wanted to maintain  the option  of early retirement from age 55
Ref: DRN67819523he appreciated the difference  in costs and charges  between  in house AVCs  and 
FSAVCs 
favoured the anonymity and flexibility of FSAVC schemes
It appears that Sun Lifes  adviser did point out that AVCs were available.  But Im not satisfied 
from what was recorded that Mr C was told that the AVC available the employer pension  
scheme was likely to have been better value. And the provider of the employer scheme  has 
told us that it had an annual management charge  of 0.875% an unspecified  policy fee and a 
bid offer spread on contributions of 5%. The illustration  provided at the time of the sale by 
Sun Life that the effect of the FSAVC charges would reduce the growth  by 2.4 %.  
And Ive not seen  any evidence that the adviser recommended  Mr C contact his employer to 
find out his options. As I dont think Sun Life met these expectations,  I need  to look at what 
Mr C would have done if hed been given  more information about  his options.
I note our adjudicator  picked up on the consumers goal of saving £50,000  by 2003 to start 
his own business.  I disagree with his interpretation of the consumers intentions. Plenty  of 
people run their own businesses in addition to working for an employer,  and theres little 
evidence to say what Mr Cs business  venture would be or how it would work. It is also a 
long-term goal, not an immediate  one. So I think it is too far a leap to conclude  that Mr C 
intended to leave his current employer in the near-future or that his FSAVC was intended to 
fund any business  venture.  
I dont think the fact that Mr C wanted to retire at 55 changes things either. The OPS  Mr C 
was a member of did allow early retirement  with the consent of the schemes trustees  and 
his employer. So Mr C could potentially have  taken benefits from his employers AVC before  
65, so the FSAVC doesnt seem to provide a definite advantage here either.  
And as Ive decided that Sun Life didnt  make Mr C aware that his AVC was likely to have 
been lower in cost and provide better value, I think if he had been made aware  of this, he 
would have in all likelihood have  taken out an AVC taking into account the potentially higher 
returns it could have  provided. Im not persuaded that Mr C would still have chosen to incur 
the (probable) higher charges involved in the FSAVC. If the advisor had explained that 
AVCs were likely to provide better value for money then I think  its reasonable to assume  
that  Mr C wouldve chosen  to take advantage of his employers  AVC. 
So for the reasons Ive set out above,  Im not persuaded the advice  to take out the FSAVC 
was suitable. I think  Mr C would have contributed to his employers in-house AVC if hed 
been given more information.
putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited should undertake a redress  
calculation in accordance with the FSAVC review  guidance, but with reference to the 
clarification of this on our online technical resource  webpage which can be found at 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical_notes/FSAVC.html
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  to put things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN67819524Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6781952