K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained about the market value U K Insurance  Limited  paid him when he made
a claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr O bought a car insurance policy with UKI. In December 2017  his car was involved in an
incident and so he made a claim.  UKI said it wasn't  economical to repair Mr O's car. So it
said it would  settle  his claim as a total loss. In January 2018 UKI paid Mr O a total loss
settlement of £962. It deducted the excess Mr O owed of £150 from the £962.
Mr O said the valuation  UKI placed  on his car was too low.
The main  motor trade guides - which we use to check  if a valuation has been decided in a
fair way - couldn't  provide a valuation  for Mr O's car because it was an import  and so there
weren't many on the open market like it.
UKI's engineer decided the valuation based on a similar car for sale abroad.
Our investigator agreed that it was difficult to decide a fair valuation  for Mr O's car. But it
seemed UKI had used the wrong  mileage and type of car when  deciding  a valuation.  So he
didn't think  there was enough to say UKI had been  fair. And the investigator thought UKI
could've handled the claim and complaint better than it did. He thought UKI should do the
following:
Consider and accept  fresh  valuations using more accurate information.
Once a figure has been agreed it should pay the difference between what it has
already paid to whatever increase there is.
Pay 8% simple interest on the difference from the date of claim to the date of
settlement and;
Pay Mr O £250 compensation.
Both parties  didn't agree. Mr O said the suggested compensation wasn't enough to cover his
claim for further losses in buying a replacement car. He provided  examples of similar cars for
sale in the UK.
UKI provided  a detailed  reply from its engineer to explain why it believes the valuation it paid
was reasonable.
Our investigator gave  a follow  up view. He didn't agree Mr O's claimed losses  were caused
by UKI's handling of his claim. So he didn't recommend these should be met by UKI.
The valuations Mr O provided were  significantly higher than the price he paid for his car
when it was imported.  And from looking online, the investigator found the advertised prices
ranged widely. He remained of the view that UKI hadn't shown that it had used the correct
car or mileage when  deciding a valuation for Mr O's car.
So he thought the fairest outcome was for UKI to pay Mr O the purchase price  he paid for his
car which was £1,320.59.  He therefore recommended  UKI pay an additional  £358.59 with 
interest at 8% a year for the date it paid the interim settlement to the date it pays  Mr O. He
recommended UKI pay this in addition to the £250 compensation.
Ref: DRN60937392Mr O accepted the investigator's findings. UKI didn't agree. It said Mr O's car would have
been worth  less at the date of loss as it was older and had higher mileage. And it believes
£250 compensation is harsh. It said there was always going to be an element of frustration
dealing with this claim due to Mr O's car being  an import.
To resolve  the matter, UKI proposed  it pay Mr O an additional £179 adding  interest at 8% a
year from the date it paid the original settlement sum.
UKI said its engineer  relied on the government  website  where  Mr O's car mileage was
recorded in kilometres.  
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2018. I thought  the fairest outcome was for 
UKI to increase  the total loss settlement by the £179 it offered with interest. I didnt think  it 
had provided a poor service to Mr O.
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr O hasnt replied. 
So the case has been returned to me for a final decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any new 
information, my final decision remains the same  as my provisional  decision.
Mr O's policy  with UKI says the most it will pay in the event  of a total loss claim is the market
value of his car. It defines market value as "the cost of replacing your car with another of the
same make and model and of a similar  age and condition at the time of the accident  or loss."
As our investigator explained, any shipping or tax costs Mr O paid to have his car imported
and registered  are not costs UKI needs to cover.
UKI - like many insurers - generally follows our standard approach to deciding  a valuation
for a car. We look at the main motor trade guides as they provide average valuations  based
on likely  selling prices for cars based  on their make, model, age, condition and mileage.
But because Mr O's car was an import,  the trade guides couldn't  provide a valuation. And
our investigator asked a main motor trade guide  if it could provide a bespoke valuation,  but it
couldn't.
From the information Mr O provided,  he paid the equivalent of £1,320.59 for his car in April
2017.
When he made his claim in December 2017,  his car had travelled a further  4,500  miles  and
was eight months older. I think that if UKI pays Mr O the same price  as he paid for his car in
April 2017, this puts him in a better position  than he would have been in had he not made a
claim. I don't think this is right.
UKI provided  a screenshot from an import site of a similar car for sale in January 2018  - the
month after the date of loss - which was the same make, model and age as Mr O's car. The
mileage of this car was just over 111,000  kilometres. Mr O's car odometer read at 117,972
kilometres - so I think this car closely matched Mr O's for mileage too.
Ref: DRN60937393The advertised price for this car was $1,222  U.S dollars. UKI converted this to £914. In
addition, it paid the full price Mr O paid for extras at £47.27. This came to £961.27 which  UKI
rounded up to £962.
Mr O gave an example advertisement of a similar car for sale in the UK at £6,495.  I don't
think it's reasonable to use this valuation as a guide.  It's almost five times the amount Mr O
paid for his car.
But if UKI relies on the advert for £914,  this means  Mr O's car depreciated by around a third
in eight months with a relatively low mileage increase. This doesn't  seem fair either.
As it isn't possible to use the main  motor trade  guides to decide  a valuation - and given the
limited information available elsewhere  - I think the proposal UKI has made to pay an
additional £179 seems reasonable.
I don't think UKI caused undue delay in dealing with Mr O's claim.  Its engineer offered Mr O
an initial settlement on 8 January 2018.  I appreciate Mr O didn't accept  the initial valuation
UKI decided.  So UKI asked Mr O to provide  proof of the amount he paid for the car so that it
could review its decision. Mr O provided  this on 24 January 2018. On further review  UKI
increased the total loss settlement to £962. It sent Mr O a settlement  cheque on 31 January
2018.
So overall I don't think UKI caused  undue  delay or provided a poor service to Mr O.
So I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I think a fairer outcome is for UKI to pay Mr O an
additional £179 for the market value  of his car. It should pay interest on this amount  from the
date of the original  total loss settlement to the date it pays  Mr O at a rate of 8% simple
interest a year.  UKI has accepted this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
oPay Mr O an additional £179  for the total loss settlement of his car. 
oPay interest on this amount  at a rate of 8% simple  interest  a year from the 
date it paid the original settlement to the date it pays him.
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr O accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr O a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN60937394Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6093739