K820x#14complaint
H is a limited company.  It complains that Clydesdale Bank  Plc mid-sold it a fixed rate 
business loan.
background
In January 2003, H took out a ten-year loan of £310,348 from Clydesdale. The annual 
interest rate was fixed  at 7.13% for the entire duration.  The loan ran its course and was 
repaid in December 2012.
In July 2017, H complained to the bank about the sale of the loan. Its representative said the 
bank hadnt given H adequate information  about  the risks  particularly the potential  scale  of 
the break costs  which would be charged for early repayment  which restricted Hs ability to 
react and adapt to changing financial circumstances. The representative also said the bank 
failed to disclose  the level of commission paid to its sales force.
Clydesdale didnt offer H any compensation. H therefore referred  its complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He gave these 
reasons, in summary:
The bank  has acknowledged  that its explanation of break  costs  could  have been  
more comprehensive.  So the crucial issue is what H would have done if the bank had 
given adequate information  about  break  costs.
The evidence clearly  indicates that H was interested in fixing  its interest costs. The 
company expressly had no plans or intentions  to repay the loan early.
Without the fixed rate, there would have been  no risk of break costs. But H would  
have been exposed to the risk of interest  rate rises  and their impact  on the 
companys cash flow.
The adjudicator  thought that in the circumstances, if H had been  told how large  the 
break costs could be, the company would still have gone ahead with the fixed rate. 
The bank  wasnt required to disclose information  about staff pay or profit  levels when 
setting out the terms of the loan. Nothing  was paid to an intermediary and the price  H 
would pay was clear  from the outset.
H didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions. On the companys behalf, its representative 
made these  points, in summary:
The primary complaint on the fixed rate margin isnt about how the bank chooses to 
remunerate its staff. Rather,  its about  the banks failure to adequately disclose the 
costs and charges  associated with the product, which  prevented H from making an 
informed choice.
Ref: DRN62564552With a fixed rate loan,  the customer is entirely  unaware that the interest rate offered 
includes a charge for fixing the rate. Some customers would be happy to pay the 
premium for certainty of fixed rate interest,  just as many take out insurance. But 
many wouldnt  be willing to pay a premium just for the luxury  of having a fixed rate.
The customer could only make an informed  decision if they were informed of the 
additional cost for entering a fixed rate loan instead of a variable rate loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive come to the same  
conclusions as the adjudicator and for much the same reasons.
Its common ground that the bank didnt fully explain the costs  of exiting the loan early.  It told 
H that the costs  could  be substantial but it didnt give any figures. However, I agree with the 
adjudicator that H would have weighed this risk against the risk of facing rising interest costs. 
On balance, I think H would still have taken the fixed rate loan even if the bank had given 
adequate information about  the potential scale of break costs.  
Ive seen no evidence  that H made any request to repay the loan early or any enquiry about 
the costs of doing so. For this reason, Im not persuaded that the banks  failure to explain  the 
potential scale of break costs caused  H any unexpected loss of flexibility.
As regards  the representatives argument about transparency  of costs, I think it was clear to 
H how much  it would pay for the loan. H knew the all-in fixed  interest rate and Clydesdale  
added no charge or cost on top of that interest  rate. Im satisfied that the bank acted fairly 
and reasonably when it informed H how much  the loan would cost.
Hs representative characterises the fixed rate as containing a premium  above the rate that 
H would  have paid for an otherwise equivalent  variable rate loan. But H could have 
compared the banks offer with the cost of a variable rate loan, and there was no 
requirement for the bank to make  this comparison on behalf of the customer. Similarly, if H 
had sought to shop around, it could  have compared the cost of the fixed rate loan with an 
offering from another provider. In both respects,  its my view that H was in a position to make 
an informed choice. H knew what it would  pay for the fixed  rate loan and could have 
compared it with the price  of other  loans.
For all the above  reasons,  I dont require Clydesdale to pay H any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Colin Brown
Ref: DRN62564553ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256455