K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr M applied  for his credit card online in October 2005. He didnt apply for the PPI at that 
time but took it out when  he contacted Nationwide to activate his card a few days later.
I understand the policy cost 70p for each £100 of the balance outstanding on Mr Ms credit  
card. It would have  paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 months for each successful 
accident, sickness or unemployment claim  he made.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Mr M disagrees. He says he 
had good employee benefits  and didnt need  PPI. So Mr Ms complaint has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has given  us a record of Mr Ms online journey when he applied  for his card. 
And, as Ive said, he didnt select PPI at the time. It was added over the phone  when he later 
called Nationwide  to activate his card.
Nationwide doesnt  have a recording of the sales call. Thats not unusual  given how long ago 
the sale took place, but it has shown us to a script  it says wouldve been used at the time. I 
cant say how closely the script wouldve been followed but I think  its more  likely than not 
the representative gave Mr M a choice about  whether  or not to take out the PPI and, since  it 
was added to his account, I think its likely he agreed to it.
Nationwide didnt make  Mr M a tailored recommendation for the policy. That meant  it didnt 
need to take reasonable  steps to make sure it was suitable for his circumstances. But it still 
had to give Mr M clear enough  information  to make sure he could decide for himself  whether 
or not he wanted  the PPI. 
As Nationwide  doesnt  have  a call recording available, I cant say exactly  what information 
Nationwide gave Mr M over the phone  when he called  to activate his card. I think its likely 
not all the information was as clear as it couldve been. But thats not enough  for me to 
uphold his complaint. I next need to think about whether, if Mr M had clearer or better 
information, he would have changed  his mind and not bought  the policy.
I dont think its likely  he wouldve done.  I say this because, from what  Ive seen  of the policy  
terms and what Mr M says of his circumstances, I think he was eligible for the insurance. 
And Mr M says he was in good health,  was working  and didnt have any unusual 
employment circumstances at the time. So I dont think hed have been affected  by any of 
Ref: DRN62793972the main limitations  and exclusions  on the policy that mightve made it more difficult for him 
to make a claim. 
As the PPI wasnt recommended  to Mr M, as Ive mentioned, Nationwide  didnt have to make 
sure the PPI was right for him in his circumstances. But Ive still thought about what Mr M 
has told us about  his work benefits,  which he says amounted  to six months full sick pay. But 
the PPI couldve  paid out for longer than his full sick pay from work lasted and in addition to 
it. It also looks like the PPI was affordable when he took it out.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide has paid back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6279397