K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him nearly £7,500 taken out of his 
account between  February and August 2018  at cash machines  (ATMs).  He says he didnt 
withdraw the money and didnt ask or allow anybody else to do so.
Mr As mother is helping  him with his complaint.  But, to make things a bit easier,  Ill refer to 
everything as though  its Mr A that has said it.
background
Mr A has recently sent us more information about the problems hes had with his Santander 
account. This suggests the issues go back much further than February 2018.
But I can only look at things that Mr A says went wrong in 2018. Santander hasnt had 
chance to look into anything before (or after) then. So it wouldnt be fair for me to say 
anything about  those other problems. Mr A will need to raise  a separate  complaint with 
Santander about them.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both Mr A and Santander. So Ill keep the 
background short and hope  both sides will accept the following  as a brief summary of whats  
said to have happened:
Mr A was going  through  his Santander  records and could see a lot of money taken out of 
his account at ATMs during 2018;
He says he hadnt withdrawn the money  or asked or allowed anybody else to do so for 
him  so he complained to Santander;
The bank wouldnt give refund the money  it said the withdrawals  had been  made  using 
Mr As genuine card and the correct PIN had been used each time; and
Mr A still had his account  card  and the piece of paper  hed written  the PIN down  on, as 
he has problems  remembering things like his PIN.
As Santander wouldnt refund the money,  Mr A contacted us. One of our investigators 
looked into things  for him.
But our investigator agreed  with Santander.  He didnt think the bank had to refund the 
money to Mr A.
In summary,  our investigator thought it was most  likely  that Mr A carried  out the withdrawals 
himself  or allowed somebody else to do so.
Our investigator couldnt see any way that somebody would have been able to take Mr As 
card, use it and return it to him without him realising  particularly as this happened so many 
times. And it wasnt clear  how somebody  else would have got to know Mr As PIN.
As our investigator was aware of Mr As particular needs, he tried to get in touch with the 
worker that supports Mr A. Unfortunately  this wasnt successful.
Ref: DRN65666042The investigator went through  the various rules and regulations that cover situations like this. 
The key ones are the Payment  Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs). Having thought about 
all the possibilities about what  might have happened,  he didnt think  it would be right to make  
Santander refund the money.
Our investigator also suggested  Mr A get in touch with Santander to see if there  are any 
ways the bank can help protect his money given his specific needs.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. So his complaint  has been passed  to me to 
review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by repeating that this complaint can only deal with the money  taken out of 
Mr As account in 2018. While the circumstances of the other  withdrawals that he has now 
told us he didnt make may appear very much the same, Santander must be given the 
chance to look into them  if Mr A makes  a separate complaint about them.
I can see Mr A feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to both us and Santander. And thats not surprising. After all, nearly  £7,500 was taken 
out of Mr As account between February  and August 2018. Thats a lot of money. So hes 
bound to be concerned.
And Im very aware of Mr As specific needs  that have been set out clearly   particularly in 
the most  recent information sent in. It must be quite difficult for Mr A to keep track of things 
as a result  of his circumstances.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr A that I agree  with our investigator. I dont think  Santander has 
to refund the money taken  out of his account  in 2018.
I accept Mr A says hes lost a lot of money  here.  But that doesnt necessarily mean itd be 
fair for Santander  to suffer that loss by refunding the money to Mr A.
Theres not a great deal I can add to what our investigator set out in his very detailed view 
on the matter. But its important I set out the main  points Ive considered  so Mr A knows 
Ive looked into things with a fresh pair of eyes.
could Santander  have done things  differently?
Mr A may well be regarded as a vulnerable customer. Santander hasnt said it was aware  of 
his particular needs. And Ive not seen  any evidence that either Mr A or anybody supporting 
him told the bank  this was the case.
But Im aware its been suggested Mr A went into (at least) one Santander branch to 
withdraw cash and may have shouted  out his PIN when doing so. If thats  the case, then the 
PIN would have been known to anybody close to Mr A.
Ref: DRN65666043Hed also been into branches on a reasonably regular basis.  So Santander  might  have had 
other chances to know Mr A might need help with managing and protecting  his account. But 
without being  there  and knowing how Mr A acted when in the branches I cant be sure 
Santander would know for certain this was the case.
And what action Santander might  have taken would need to be discussed and agreed with 
Mr A or those  supporting him. For example, the bank restricting the use of Mr As card  or 
stopping him using his account this way altogether  would be quite a drastic response by 
the bank.
As Ive not seen  any specific evidence Santander  was on sufficient notice that would make 
me think it should have  restricted  Mr As access to his account  at the time of these 
withdrawals, I cant safely  conclude  its done  anything wrong.
was Mr As genuine card used to make the withdrawals?
Ive looked at Santanders records. They show the chip in Mr As card was read when the 
withdrawals were made at numerous  ATMs in 2018. So Im satisfied Mr As genuine card 
was used to make the withdrawals.
Mr As PIN
Again, Santanders  records  show the correct PIN was used  with Mr As card.  I know  Mr A 
kept a note of his PIN in his pocket. That helps him remember  the number. And  given what  
hes said about his specific needs   thats  not surprising. But it does mean  theres a greater 
chance of somebody  else getting to know the PIN, which puts Mr As money at risk.
how often the card (and PIN) was used
Mr As account statements show a large  number of withdrawals were made in 2018.  Hes 
said many   but not all  of these werent done  by him. And there  was other  use of the card 
to buy things.
So  if Mr A didnt take the money out himself  itd mean whoever did so was able to get 
hold of his card, use it and then get it back to him. There were often several withdrawals on 
one day. That points to somebody  very close to Mr A being involved  and almost certainly 
with his agreement.
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But its where the evidence  points to. And I accept  
its possible somebody may have abused the trust Mr A placed  in them and he may not have 
fully understood  the consequences  of him letting somebody else have  his card.  Or 
somebody may have  encouraged Mr A to make the withdrawals  and then used the money  
either directly or through Mr A spending  it in a particular way.
have we properly  considered the rules, regulations and other things covering this complaint?
As I said earlier,  our investigator set things out in some detail in his view. Having looked  at 
everything available on the file Im satisfied that weve thought about everything we should 
have, particularly what the PSRs say banks  should do.
Ref: DRN65666044protecting Mr A in future
In many respects, its for Mr A to decide what to do to protect  his money going  forward. But 
Id expect Santander to actively work with him (and/or  his representatives) to put in place 
practical ways to do so.
This might end up with Mr A having  less flexibility  about how he operates his account.  Thats  
something for him and the bank to work through and decide whats best.
summary
I cant rule out the possibility Mr A made the withdrawals himself.  But hes clear he didnt.  So 
the most  likely thing is that somebody close to Mr A has used his card with his agreement.
Because of that, it wouldnt be fair for me to make Santander refund the money.
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Santander informally  can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr A any further over the ATM withdrawals between  February and August 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A (or his 
representative) to accept  or reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6566604