K821x#15Complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
Ms F was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as A, that supplied  and installed solar 
panel systems. Following  a meeting  at her home, Ms F agreed to enter into a contract with A 
for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing around £7,000. To pay for this, Ms F 
also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed loan agreement with Shawbrook.
At the time of entering into the contract, A also paid Ms F a cheque  to cover  her first three  
months loan repayments  as it would take around this amount  of time for her to start receiving 
any benefits form her solar panel  system.
Ms F initially complained to A around  one year after the panels had been installed.  She said 
that the salesperson had told her that her solar  panel system  would be self-funded and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the financial benefits  shed  receive form 
the system. But that hadnt happened. Instead, her monthly loan repayments had been  much 
higher. A told her that its salesperson wouldnt have misrepresented the benefits of the solar 
panel system to her.
Following this, Ms F made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. 
As Shawbrook couldnt complete its review of Ms Fs complaint within 8 weeks  she referred 
her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She thought that A had 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel  system  to Ms F. To put things right she asked 
Shawbrook to calculate the potential  savings and income to Ms F over the term of the loan. 
She said Shawbrook  should then restructure  Ms Fs loan, so she paid no more  than this over 
the 10 year loan term. As this may have meant  that Ms F had been paying  more each month  
than she should  have been, the investigator said Ms F should be given the following four 
options as to how any overpayments should  be used:
1.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Ms F 
continues to make her current monthly  payment resulting in her loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Ms F 
pays a new, lower  monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
3.the overpayments are returned  to Ms F and she continues  to make her current 
monthly loan payment  resulting in the loan finishing early, or;
4.the overpayments are returned  to Ms F and she pays  a new, lower  monthly payment 
until the end of the existing loan term.
The investigator also recommended that Shawbrook pay Ms F £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Ms F accepted the investigators view of her complaint. Shawbrook  didnt.  It later got in touch 
to say that A was willing to make an offer to resolve  Ms Fs complaint. As this offer still hasnt 
been received  the case has been  passed  to me to review.
 
Ref: DRN60157582My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA.  S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Ms F paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan agreement,  Shawbrook  agrees that 
s75 applies. This means that Ms F could claim against Shawbrook   the creditor   for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by A in the same way she could have claimed 
against A, the supplier.  So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding  what  is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations  between Ms F and A, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by A as an agent for Shawbrook.
What happened? 
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must  decide on the balance  of probabilities  
that is, what I consider  to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms F says she was cold-called by A and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the 
solar panel  system would be entirely self-financing. I havent  seen anything to show  that Ms 
F had previously shown an interest  in solar panels  before she was contacted  by A. It is hard 
to see why she wouldve  agreed to the installation of the solar panels, paid for by a loan, 
which would increase her monthly outgoings.  And based on this, I think its unlikely that she 
wouldve agreed to the solar  panel system and a loan with Shawbrook, unless she had been  
led to believe that it would  be self-funding and come at no additional financial cost to her.
Ms F has been consistent with her recollection  of what she told and subject to considering  
other information she was given at the time I have no reason  to doubt Ms Fs version  of 
events.
Ive gone on to consider the paperwork that was provided to Ms F to see if there  was 
anything contained  within it that made it clear that the solar panel  system wouldnt be self-
funding. This includes the order request form, the site survey, the loan agreement  and the 
customer satisfaction document.
Ref: DRN60157583First, Ill consider the loan agreement. This sets out the amount being borrowed,  the interest 
to be charged,  total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments. This has been signed  by Ms F. Im satisfied that this is clear  and there is no 
reference to the solar  panel system being  self-funded. However, as noted by our 
investigator, it doesnt make any reference to any potential savings and income from the 
solar panels  so I dont  think  it wouldve allowed Ms F to compare the cost of the solar panel 
system to any benefit she may have received.
Ill now turn to the order request form that was signed by Ms F. There  is some wording on 
here that says:
The performance of Solar PV Systems  is impossible to predict with certainty  due to the 
variability in the amount of solar  radiation (sunlight) from location to location  and from year to 
year. The estimate  is based upon  the governments standard assessment procedure for 
energy rating of buildings  (SAP)  and is given as guidance only.  It should not be considered  
as a guarantee of performance.
Ive considered whether this should  have been enough to alert Ms F to the possibility of her 
loan repayments  not being met by the benefits  from the solar  panels and therefore the 
system not being  self-funded.
I consider the wording  quoted above  to be standard wording given to all consumers whether 
they are taking finance or not that explains the performance of solar  panels isnt predictable 
and that the electricity generated  could vary. Having said that, I dont it would be reasonable 
to assume that this meant  that Ms F wouldve  understood from this statement that the 
system wouldnt  be self-funding as she had been  led to believe.
The order  request form also shows the expected output in kWh from her solar  panels on an 
annual basis. However, this doesnt  break this down  into financial benefits, so Im satisfied 
that Ms F wouldve been reliant on what she was told by As salesperson. Ms F has said that 
the salesperson  did compare  the income from the solar panels  to the monthly  loan 
repayments, but she only realised these figures  hadnt been left with her when she reviewed 
the paperwork after the salesperson had left.
Im satisfied that it is more  likely than not that A told Ms F that the solar panel  system would 
be self-funding and come at no additional cost to her. So, Ive considered whether it was 
reliable for her to have  relied  on that misrepresentation  when  entering  into the contract given 
the documents that were  given to her. Ive also considered whether any of the documents 
given to her was sufficient  to counter  the misrepresentation made by the salesperson.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the documents provided to Ms F werent 
clear and were presented  in such a way that it wouldve been difficult  for her to make  an 
informed decision without  relying on what she was told by the salesperson. So, Im 
persuaded it was reasonable  for Ms F to have relied on what she was told by the 
salesperson when she agreed to enter  into the contract.
Was the solar panel system self-funding at no additional cost to Ms F?
My view is that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Ms F, 
the monthly savings  and benefits she would achieve should have been  sufficient  to meet  her 
monthly loan repayments.
Ref: DRN60157584As I have explained above, Ive seen no evidence to show that Ms F was given any written  
confirmation of the financial  benefits  she should  have expected to receive from her solar  
panels. 
I have seen that when Ms F contacted A to complain about a year after the solar  panel 
system had been  installed  at her home,  it wrote  back to her to explain that the expected 
income and savings she should  make  would be around £485.  But her monthly loan 
repayments were about £1,166 in the first year. Taking this into account Ms F was likely to 
be out of pocket by about £681  in the first year and this would broadly be the same 
throughout the term of the loan.  This means  that even based on this estimate, the solar 
panels arent self-funding. So, Im satisfied that A misrepresented the benefits to Ms F.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, it is my finding that Ms F has suffered a loss as a 
result of the misrepresentation made by A. And as Shawbrook has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by A, I find that it is responsible for Ms Fs loss.
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at fair 
compensation taking  account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Ms Fs complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar panels themselves  but 
that she was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I dont think  it 
would be fair or proportionate to require  Shawbrook to arrange for the removal  of the solar 
panels from her home. Rather, I think the fair outcome  here it to put Ms F in a position where 
the panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Ms F to keep the 
panels, Im satisfied that she will likely benefit  from lower electricity bills and FIT payments 
going forward.
By making  the solar panels self-funding,  it is likely that Ms Fs monthly repayments will be 
lower than what she has been paying,  meaning  that she would have been previously paying 
more each month. As Ms F would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment she has 
been making, I would  expect Shawbrook to add 8% simple interest per annum form the date 
the overpayment  was made until the date of settlement. In cases  like this, I think the fairest 
resolution is to allow  Ms F to decide  how she would like her overpayments  and associated 
interest to be used, selecting  from the four options  below:
1.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and Ms F continues to make her current  monthly payment 
resulting in her loan finishing  early,
2.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and Ms F pays a new, lower  monthly payment until the end of the 
loan term,
3.the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Ms F and she continues  to 
make her current  monthly loan payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or;
4.the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Ms F and she pays a new, 
lower monthly payment until the end of the existing  loan term.
If Ms F accepts my decision, she should  indicate  on the acceptance form which  option she 
wishes to accept.
Ref: DRN60157585Shawbrook can take into account that A has already paid Ms F her first three  monthly loan 
repayments.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Ms F first 
contacted Shawbrook that means  her claim should have been upheld.  The fact that this 
didnt happen  undoubtedly caused  her trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an 
award of £100  for this.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Ms Fs complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
a)allow Ms F to keep the solar panels,
b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Ms F from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Ms Fs electricity  bills and FIT statements to do this,
c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement, minus the first three  payments that A refunded 
to Ms F when  she entered into the contract,
d)allow Ms F to decide how she wold like her overpayments  to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
e)pay Ms F £100  for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms F how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6015758