K822xComplaint
Mrs M has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a number of packaged 
bank accounts.  Her account history is as follows.
Opened as a fee free account in January 1995
Upgraded to a Select account  some  time prior to December 2000
Upgraded to a Platinum account  in October  2005
Downgraded to a Silver Vantage account  in February 2009
Downgraded to a fee free account  in August 2018
Mrs M has said that she was not given  the option  of having a fee free account.
Background
Lloyds has already agreed  to refund all the fees that Mrs M paid for the Select  account  with 
interest in line with our approach.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the sale of the Platinum and Silver account and they did 
not think that these  accounts were mis-sold. They also thought  that what  Lloyds  had already 
agreed to do in relation to the Select  account  was sufficient. Mrs M did not agree with this 
and therefore  the complaint was passed  to me to issue a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Ms complaint. Where evidence  
is incomplete and matters are in dispute,  as they are here, I make my decision based on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the 
wider circumstances  at the time. Having considered everything that Mrs M and Lloyds have 
said and provided,  I dont uphold this complaint in relation to the sale of the Platinum  and 
Silver account and I think what  Lloyds  has already  agreed to do in relation to the Select 
account is sufficient.  I will explain why.
Why I think  what Lloyds  has agreed to do in relation to Select account is enough
Lloyds has agreed  to uphold the Select  account and refund the account fees. Unfortunately  
Lloyds does not know when exactly the Select  account was sold to Mrs M so it has agreed to 
refund the account fees back  to the mid-date - between  its earliest  record  of Mrs M having 
the Select account  (December 2000) and when it first launched the Select  account  (January  
1997) - which was December 1998. Lloyds will also pay 8% simple interest on those  fees.
Having considered Lloydss offer, I think it is reasonable in the circumstances
Why I dont think the Platinum account was mis-sold 
Mrs M has said that she was not given  the option  to have a fee free account. But at this point 
she had already held a fee free account  albeit  some years earlier  so I think she wouldve 
been aware that Lloyds did free accounts and that they were  an option for her.
Ref: DRN63004712I also cant see why if she did not want a paid for account why she wouldve agreed to 
change her account from the Select  account  to a more expensive Platinum account at this 
point. Overall I think that it is more likely that she agreed to this upgrade for the benefits that 
it came  with. So I am not persuaded that this account was mis-sold.
Why I dont think that the Silver  account was mis-sold
The main  difference  between  the Silver account and the Platinum  account  was that the 
Platinum account  came with travel  insurance  whereas the Silver account  did not and 
therefore was cheaper.  Both accounts came with breakdown cover  and mobile  phone  
insurance, which were benefits  that Mrs M had registered for or used. Mrs M says that she 
wanted to save  money  and asked for the cheapest account. But I think  that overall it is more 
likely that Mrs M chose  to downgrade her account to the cheapest one that came  with the 
benefits that she was using  which was the Silver account. Given  this I do not believe that this 
account was mis-sold.
putting matters right  Select account
In accordance with Lloyds offer,  to put matters  right about the sale of the Select account 
Lloyds needs  to:
Refund Select account fees that were (or mayve been  charged) between December 
1998 and when the account was upgraded to the Platinum  account  in October 2005; and
Pay 8% simple interest on those fees, calculated from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement,  less deductible  tax.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds must  give Mrs M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision  is that the Silver account  and Platinum account were not mis-sold and that what  
Lloyds has agreed  to do in refunding the Select  account is sufficient
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6300471