K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mr M have  complained on behalf of Mrs M about the way Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited  handled an escape  of water claim under her home insurance policy and 
the settlement  Acromas  offered.
background
Mrs Ms property  was damaged by a water leak from under floor heating  pipes in January 
2017. Mr M and Mr M arranged for Mrs M, who is elderly, to move  into a care home while  
repairs were carried out.
Acromas arranged for the property  to be dried out and then repaired. The initial repairs  were 
finished on 6 June 2017. Acromas paid a contribution  towards Mrs Ms care home based on 
the amount charged by Mrs Ms care home  for accommodation and food.
Mr M and Mr M thought Acromas should  have paid the full amount  of Mrs Ms care home 
fees and that there were unnecessary delays in repairing the property.
Acromas said it wasnt liable  to pay the cost of providing care to Mrs M. It said there  had 
been about four weeks of unnecessary delay on its part. So it paid £1347.20 as a 
contribution towards  Mrs Ms care home  costs.  It also offered Mrs M £750 compensation for 
delays in handling the claim.
After a complaint  was brought  to this service, I issued a provisional decision explaining 
why I was minded  to uphold it. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
It seems to me there are two issues  whether Acromas  should pay in full the care home 
costs Mrs M incurred  because she couldnt stay at her own home and whether  it should 
pay further compensation for the trouble and upset  Mrs M suffered because of the way 
Acromas handled  the claim. I appreciate that Mr M and Mr M also suffered some 
inconvenience as a result  of the poor claim handling but I can only look at the impact  on 
Mrs M.
There are two reasons  why I might make  an insurer  pay for someone to live elsewhere. 
The first is because  such  costs are covered by the policy. The second is because the costs  
wouldnt have been incurred if it hadnt  been  for the poor handling of a claim.
In this case Mrs Ms policy does cover  the cost of renting a similar  property to her own if 
she has to live elsewhere because her home cant be lived in. Acromas agreed to pay 
Mrs M £336.80  a week while she was unable to stay at home due to the insured works. It 
said this was based on what it could reasonably have expected to pay for a rental property 
plus a food allowance.  Based on what Ive seen, I think that figure  most  likely represents 
the cost of her living elsewhere in a like for like property. So I dont  think  there are grounds 
to make Acromas pay more under the terms of the policy.
For me to make Acromas pay more outside the terms of the policy  Id need to be satisfied  
that its poor handling of the claim most  likely led to Mrs M having to stay in the care home. 
Theres clearly  an argument  that if there hadnt been delays on the part of Acromas, Mrs M 
wouldnt have had to stay in the care home for so long. In view of her age, her health 
issues and the help she relied  on from neighbours to live in her own home, I accept that it 
Ref: DRN65830932wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs M to adjust to living on her own in a different 
property. So I think it was reasonable  for her to move into a care home  while her home was 
being repaired. In order to treat Mrs M fairly I think Acromas should  pay her care home 
costs in full for the period  while she had to stay there due to delays caused by Acromas.
Looking at a timeline of this claim I can see that there were delays at various points. In 
particular it was a week after the claim was notified  before Acromass loss adjuster  visited  
the property and they appear to have under-estimated the extent of the damage.  There 
was also a delay  of two weeks or so in dealing with asbestos at the property and about 
three weeks for electrical works and fitting carpets. Its hard to say with accuracy  how 
much longer  the works  took because of failing on the part of Acromas but all in all Id say it 
was more like six weeks than the four weeks calculated  by Acromas.
So I think Acromas  should pay Mrs Ms care home costs in full for six weeks.  The care 
home cost £800 a week. Thats £4,800. Acromas has already paid £1347.20. So the 
balance due is £3,452.80. In view of the time that has passed since the care home  costs  
were paid, I also think its appropriate for Acromas  to pay interest on this amount.
I turn now to compensation for the trouble  and upset caused to Mrs M by her having to stay 
in the care home longer  than she needed  to. Thats a long time for a vulnerable elderly lady 
to be away from her home unnecessarily. There isnt an exact science in calculating  this 
sort of compensation.  This is because compensation isnt based  on the wrongdoing itself; 
its based on the effect that wrongdoing had on the consumer.  Based on what Ive seen I 
agree with our investigator that £1,000 is appropriate to compensate Mrs M for this.
Mr M and Mr M accepted my provisional  decision on behalf of Mrs M. Acromas didnt 
accept it. In summary it said:
It shouldnt have  to pay Mrs Ms care home costs for six weeks  as the policy only 
covers her staying somewhere of a similar  size and standard  to her home.
It had already  paid her £118.05  a week more than she was entitled  to in respect of 
accommodation costs.
It would agree to pay Mrs M £646.60  for an extra two weeks  in the care home at the 
rate it had previously  paid.
It didnt think it should have to pay interest  since Mrs M wouldnt  have  been  able to 
move back home on the date the property should have  been  ready  because  of the 
second claim.
Mr M and Mr M had agreed  the costs it had paid.
It had already  compensated  Mrs M by treating the second claim as an accidental 
damage claim  rather than an escape of water and this had saved Mrs M a £500 excess 
payment.
It agreed to increase the compensation payment to £1,000. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs M isnt entitled  to have her care home fees paid in full as part of her 
claim. But thats not why I think Acromas should  pay the full costs  for six weeks in this case. 
I think Mrs M had to stay in the care home for an additional six weeks not because  of the 
claim but because of the way Acromas handled  it and in particular its delays. So its only fair 
Ref: DRN65830933that it should compensate her for that. I also think Acromas should pay interest on that sum 
since Mrs M hasnt  had the benefit  of the funds  from the date she paid the care home  fees.
Acromas has referred to the fact that as soon as the heating was turned back  on after the 
works had been  completed, there was another water  leak and that led to a second claim. I 
accept that the second claim led to Mrs M extending  her stay in the care home but the fact 
remains that Mrs M had an additional six weeks in the care home not because  of the first or 
second claims but because of delays on the part of Acromas. So I dont think the fact that 
Mrs M couldnt  have moved  home because of the second claim is relevant to the 
compensation I think Acromas should pay.
I think Mr M and Mr M had only agreed the extent to which  Acromas  should contribute to the 
care home fees as part of the claim as opposed to agreeing to the claim settlement as a 
whole. 
It was up to Acromas how it treated the second claim i.e. as an escape  of water or an 
accidental damage  claim.  I think the claim could properly be classed as accidental damage. 
So I dont  see the difference in excess as compensation  for Mrs M.
Im pleased that Acromas  has agreed to the increased compensation for trouble  and upset.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mrs M:
£3,452.80 plus simple interest* at 8% per year from 25 April 2017  (being the date on 
which I calculate  the property should have been  ready for Mrs M to move back home) 
until the date of payment.
£1,000 (less any amount previously  paid in respect of this) as compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mrs M by its claim  handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Acromas Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs M a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so Mrs M can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6583093