K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  about the charges  he was asked to pay by British  Gas Insurance  Limited 
under his home emergency policy.
background
When a leak was found Mr F arranged for an engineer to visit. The British Gas engineer  
found two faulty  leaking  valves and replaced them. The engineer also carried out the annual  
service. A discussion took place  with Mrs F about replacing the other valves  as the engineer  
estimated they were  quite old, a quote was provided to replace them and an appointment 
booked.
Mr F contacted British Gas before the appointment to discuss the charges. He didnt think  he 
should be paying for the replacement valves under the policy.  The call handler at British Gas 
confirmed that he was covered under his home  emergency policy and wouldnt have to pay. 
But after the work was done  British Gas said Mr F did have to pay as the valves  werent 
faulty. It offered  £30 as a goodwill gesture for any confusion  caused. Mr F brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She didnt  think that Mr F had mis-led British Gas and 
noted the British Gas call handler couldnt  explain why the quote had been given. Our 
investigator said no further questions were  asked of Mr F and that he was clear that he 
wanted to know  why he should  have  to pay. She said during this call Mr F was given the 
clear indication he wouldnt  have  to pay. Our investigator said there were some  
misunderstandings between the parties. But she also said British  Gas couldve been clearer 
or found out about the reasons for the quote  and couldve  updated Mr F prior to the 
appointment to carry out the work. In conclusion she said British Gas had prejudiced Mr Fs 
position. Our investigator said Mr F wouldnt have agreed to the work being done  and so 
British Gas should waive the invoice.  She said the £30 goodwill gesture offered as 
compensation should also be paid.
British Gas didnt  accept this and asked  for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there have  been misunderstandings between  the parties throughout. Whats 
interesting to me is that British Gas has been completely clear in response to our 
investigators view. In their email  British Gas has said theres absolutely  no doubt that this is 
not covered. I think this only highlights the errors British Gas made when Mr F rang them for 
advice. He asked  if the problem was covered and was told yes. He explained he was told he 
needed replacements and this would cost around £700. The call handler said she was trying 
to look at the notes  from the engineer visit but doesnt say any more about  this during the 
rest of the call. I think the call handler  is doing  what she can to provide  good customer 
service to Mr F, but its clear that the conversation  is at crossed  purposes.  I think  it was the 
responsibility of British Gas to clarify  the points covered either  during the call or at least  
before asking Mr F to pay any costs.
Ref: DRN66972832During the call Mr F does clearly state that he wont  pay. I cant  think of a more  simple 
indicator for British  Gas to realise that this matter needed to be clarified. It seems to me that 
what probably shouldve  happened is that the existing appointment shouldve been 
cancelled. In fairness to the call handler thats  the first suggestion she made  regarding  how 
to rectify the situation. But Mr F was happy at this point that he wouldnt have to pay and as 
the arrangements had already been  made  he was happy to go ahead  with the appointment. 
Once it was agreed  that the appointment was going  ahead British Gas didnt  follow up on the 
actions it said it would  if the appointment had been cancelled.  The call handler  said she 
would contact the previous engineer and their manager to find out why Mr F was being  
charged. This didnt happen.
Its still clear to me that the onus  was on British Gas to ensure that its engineer understood 
the issues and that Mr F wasnt expecting  to pay. British Gas has said Mr F didnt  raise  the 
matter until the work had been concluded but I dont think its reasonable for British Gas to 
shift its responsibility on to Mr F. It says the quotation had been signed for and theres no 
dispute about that, but its British Gas in the follow up phone call that tell Mr F he doesnt  
have to pay. All parties are aware of this but British Gas didnt clear up the issue prior to Mr 
F having  the work done. I think after telling  Mr F that he doesnt have to pay to then expect 
him to is unreasonable.
I dont think theres any doubt that Mr F went ahead with the later appointment in the belief 
that he didnt have to pay. To then decide  to still charge him despite that is unfair and 
unreasonable. Mr F did what he could to clarify  the situation in advance  of the work and was 
clear that if he had to pay he wouldnt get the work done. To waive the invoice is the fair 
outcome in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr F found  this experience  stressful. Despite his efforts to clear up any 
issues in advance it still became distressing when he found out that British Gas expected 
him to pay the invoice  in full. In view of this I think the £30 compensation offer is reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
waive the invoice  costs;
pay £30 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6697283