K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that The Governor  and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BoI) mis-
sold them  a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage in 1991. They also bought a PPI policy around the same 
time, which wouldve  covered their mortgage  repayments for up to 24 months at a time for 
accident or sickness or for 12 months  at a time, for unemployment. Only Mr O was covered 
under the policy.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagree, so their 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. They say they didnt need the PPI 
because they had savings and Mr O had sick pay through  work. They also say that the 
premiums were increased after they took out the policy and Bol continued to take PPI 
premiums after they closed their mortgage account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding Mr and Mrs Os case about whether PPI was mis-sold. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale took place  over 25 years ago. BoI havent  retained any of the documents  from the 
sale as the mortgage was closed  over 15 years ago. I dont think this is unreasonable.
I cant know what was discussed at the time when Mr and Mrs O took out PPI. The records 
are no longer available.  I dont have enough to fairly conclude now that Mr and Mrs O 
werent given enough  information  about the optional nature of the policy and didnt agree to 
take it. So, based on the very limited information  I have, I cant  fairly uphold  their complaint 
on this ground.  
Ive worked on the basis that Bol advised Mr and Mrs O to take out the policy.   This  means  
that BoI had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the policy  was suitable for them. It also 
had to give them enough clear information  about the policy  for them to make  an informed 
choice about whether  the policy was right for them, and they wanted to buy it.
Although the policy only covered Mr O, as this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken into account 
Mrs Os circumstances too when deciding if this policy  was suitable for them.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time I think its likely that the PPI was 
suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr O met the eligibility criteria  to take out the policy;
I cant see that Mr O was affected by any of the main terms seen in PPI policies 
which might  make it more difficult to make a successful claim. For example terms 
relating to existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances;
Ref: DRN68052082Mr O has recently produced evidence from his employer to show he wouldve got 
sick pay through work. The policy wouldve  paid out in addition  to his sick pay and 
possibly for longer  than his work benefits for accident and sickness;  
Mr and Mrs O said they had some  savings. But, I cant see that these other  
resources made  the policy inappropriate. It wouldve allowed them to use their 
savings for other household expenditure at what might be a difficult  time financially if 
Mr O wasnt working;
Ive taken into account that Mrs O was working  too. Given that the PPI was protecting 
their home, I think it wouldve been important  to them to know that their mortgage 
repayments wouldve  been met if Mr O was out of work. Mrs Os income  couldve 
then been used to meet their other household expenses.
I cant know what Mr and Mrs O were told about the cost of the policy.  When the 
policy was taken  out it was £22.50 per month for £450  per month of cover. I think  Mr 
and Mrs O wouldve understood they had to pay something for the policy and I cant  
see the cost was unaffordable based  on what theyve  told me of their circumstances. 
The cost was comparable  to other  policies  available around that time. So, I dont 
think that wouldve  put them off taking it out.
I dont know how the information about the policy was presented  to Mr and Mrs O, so its 
possible they didnt  receive everything  they should  have  done at the time of sale. But for the 
reasons Ive given  above I dont think more, or better, information  wouldve changed Mr and 
Mrs Os mind about buying the policy. So I dont  think theyve lost out as a result  of anything  
BoI did wrong.  For these  reasons,  I cant fairly  uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs O said that the policy premium was increased considerably  in later years and the 
premium continued  to be collected  after their mortgage ended. But, this complaint is about 
whether the policy  was mis-sold in the first place,  in 1991, so, these comments  have not had 
a bearing on this decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6805208