K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made under his 
homecare policy.
background
In February 2018,  Mr A had a problem with his boiler and he called British Gas to make a 
claim under his homecare policy. The first engineer said they needed to order  some new 
parts. However, after these were fitted,  the problems with the boiler continued and Mr A says 
it kept switching  on and off. 
Mr A says all in all, nine engineers came out to inspect the boiler  but were unable  to fix the 
problem. And it was faulty was during a period of very bad weather, making it difficult  for him 
and his wife to manage without heating and hot water. 
The engineers recommended Mr A had a new boiler fitted, but Mr A has said that he couldnt 
afford to replace  the boiler. One engineer told Mr A that there were some parts that could 
potentially help repair the boiler.  But they would take two weeks  to arrive,  and even then 
there would not be any guarantee  the boiler would  be repaired. Mr A asked British  Gas to 
provide him with a quote for a new boiler. They prepared this and then offered to reduce the 
price by £700. Mr A decided, at this point, to borrow the money from a family  member and 
have a new boiler installed by a third party. Hes told us he paid less than the discounted  
price quoted by British  Gas.
British Gas accepted the service it had offered Mr A wasnt acceptable.  They accepted its 
engineers had made a number of visits and caused delays as a result of parts not being in 
stock. It originally offered  him a payment for the trouble and upset hed experienced. But on 
reflection if thought the amount initially offered wasnt  sufficient and sent a cheque for £400. 
But it didnt think it was required  to pay for a new boiler under the terms of the policy. Or give 
him the £700  it offered  to reduce its quote by.
Mr A asked one of our investigators to look into what happened.  She did so and thought 
British Gas offer for trouble and upset was appropriate. She explained why she didnt think 
British Gas was responsible for paying for and installing a new boiler in Mr As home, or that 
it needed to give Mr A the £700  theyd quoted as a discount. Mr A wasnt  happy  with this so 
this complaint has been passed to me.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has told us about the significant  impact being without heating and hot water had on him 
and his wife. It impacted  them  in a number of ways given  the particularly bad weather 
experienced at the time. Mr A and his wife were up during the night, so being without heating 
and hot water was especially difficult during this time. 
Mr A was also of the view the boiler  could have  been replaced  rather  than repaired. It 
seems, from looking at the information on the file, that it was difficult to identify  the fault 
because it was an intermittent fault. When the fault was identified,  it took longer than Mr A 
would have liked for the parts to be obtained,  and a key factor here was that the boiler 
Ref: DRN68580222ceased to be produced  in 2007.  And, given its age, obtaining parts  took a little longer than it 
might have in other circumstances. However, I havent seen anything which suggests British  
Gas could have  obtained the parts any sooner  than they did, or they delayed the fitting of the 
parts after they arrived.
Under the terms of Mr As policy, British Gas werent  required to meet the cost of replacing 
his boiler. As far as I can see, they might  have been  required  to do so under the following 
terms:
Whats covered
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair  it and:
Its less than seven  years old
Or, its between  seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by British  Gas under  either a warranty or HomeCare agreement
Or, it caught fire or exploded, providing  you gave us access  to carry out your annual  
service every year since we first covered  you  
British Gas has said the boiler ceased  production more than 11 years ago. So, I dont  think, 
on this basis, we could  say that British  Gas were responsible  for replacing the boiler  under 
the above criteria. The boiler  wasnt less than 10 years old, so didnt meet the criteria set out 
in the first two bullet  points. And it didnt catch  fire or explode. 
Mr A asked British Gas to give him a quote for a new boiler. They  did so, and then offered to 
reduce the cost by £700. Mr A decided this was more than he was able to spend and 
therefore arranged  for a third party to fit a new boiler. The amount Mr A paid was less than 
the discounted price  offered by British  Gas. Like the investigator, I think it was Mr As choice 
to have a new boiler  fitted, and he paid less than he would  have  if British  Gas had supplied 
and installed  it. I cant see that Mr A had incurred any financial loss as a result of British Gas 
actions because it was his decision to have a new boiler fitted. And, on this basis;  I wont be 
recommending they pay him the £700 he asked for. 
However, its clear this matter has a significant impact on Mr A. He and his wife were without 
heating and hot water for a long period of time during some bad weather conditions. British  
Gas has accepted that it could have done  more  for them,  which is why it offered to pay them 
£400 in recognition of the trouble and upset  experienced. I have thought carefully  about  all 
that Mr A has told us about his personal circumstances. But, while I accept they were  
experienced a very difficult time while  the boiler was not working, I think the payment offered 
by British Gas is a fair reflection  of this. Im not going to recommend British Gas increase  
their offer. Mr A didnt cash the first cheque so if he now wants  to accept that offer,  he can 
contact British Gas directly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858022