K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a second charge loan Mr and Mrs T took out on the advice of 
Basik Money Ltd. The money lent was used to consolidate a large number of existing debts, 
some of which were included in a debt management  plan (DMP). 
Mr and Mrs T, who have  third-party representation, complain that consolidating the debts in 
the DMP was unsuitable  advice, because  they werent interest-bearing. Also,  they were still 
left with some outstanding  debts, and because of that they took out a third charge loan later.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary  of the current position and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld; she said that Mr and Mrs T should  
only have been  advised to consolidate interest-bearing debts that lay outside the DMP. To 
resolve the complaint, she proposed Basik do the following:
Calculate how much  it will cost Mr and Mrs T to repay the debts consolidated to the 
second charge  over the term of that loan; that is, capital plus interest  plus fees (A);
Calculate how much  it will cost Mr and Mrs T to repay the debts consolidated to the third 
charge over the term of that loan; that is, the unconsolidated cost from the date of advice  
to the date of the third charge then consolidated thereafter (B);
A+B gives the total costs of their indebtedness.
Then:
Calculate how much  it would have  cost to repay the debts consolidated into the second 
change if they had remained in the DMP, from the date of the advice to the date the 
DMP would end (C);
Calculate how much  it would have  cost to repay the debts consolidated into the third 
charge (that were on the schedule but werent consolidated - totalling £5,585.29) if they 
had been consolidated into a loan at the same rate and over the same term, entered into 
at the same time,  as the second charge (D);
C+D gives the position Mr and Mrs T should have been in. The redress is then (A+B) - 
(C+D) which is the extra overall  cost of the advice they received from Basik.
If Mr and Mrs T choose to use the resulting lump  sum to repay  some  or all of their debts, 
Basik should pay any early repayment charges  (ERC). 
The investigator recognised that this would leave the problem of some  debts  still being  
outstanding. But by taking the redress to the end of the term of the various debts rather than 
just to the settlement date, she concluded  Mr and Mrs T would benefit from having the 
redress up front. They could then choose to use that to pay down the outstanding debts 
(and if they did that Basik should  also reimburse  any ERCs etc). 
The investigator also reasoned that if there  were  still any debts left, that would be 
unfortunate to some  extent - but it wouldnt be fair to ask Basik just to clear Mr and Mrs Ts 
Ref: DRN67664992debts. And if things had gone as they should have, they would still have  some  outstanding 
debts now anyway; the redress being proposed would mean Basik covering their extra  debt, 
not their entire debt.
Basik asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, chiefly because  of a dispute  
over which debts had and hadnt been listed in the point-of-sale documentation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Basik hasnt said anything  in its response  to the view, to justify recommending  Mr and Mrs T 
consolidate the debts that were in their DMP. All it has done is argue the fine detail about  
which debts were listed in the point of sale documentation and which were not. 
I accept there was some omissions and anomalies in the schedule  of debt, but I dont  
consider Basik was at fault for not identifying  them,  and Mr and Mrs T signed to confirm  
theyd given the right information. In the end, this isnt an argument  that affects the broader 
outcome, because ultimately, Basik should not have recommended Mr and Mrs T 
consolidate their DMP  debts, only any interest-bearing debts that lay outside it.
I agree  with the investigator that the redress being  proposed is a fair settlement to the 
complaint. That said,  its a settlement that doesnt  produce a known outcome; the exact 
value of the settlement will only be known once  Basik has carried  out the necessary 
calculations in accordance with the specified formula. I appreciate this approach requires 
something of a leap of faith from Mr and Mrs T, but the formula is designed to produce a 
fair settlement, and the eventual  amount paid will flow from that. 
This approach also requires Mr and Mrs T and Basik to co-operate with each  other to a 
degree thats not been present up to now. Implementing the settlement requires both parties 
to engage with each other  without recrimination about what  has gone before. I do hope that 
will prove possible, if only to avoid a fresh complaint in future about how Basik  implemented 
the settlement  of this one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  and in full and final settlement, direct Basik  Money  Ltd to calculate  
and pay Mr and Mrs T redress as set out above.  My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6766499