K820x#14complaint
H is a charity. H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) closed its 
accounts and suspended  access to its funds.
The complaint is brought  by one of Hs trustees, Mr H.
background
H held a current account and a foreign currency account with Yorkshire  Bank. 
Yorkshire Bank decided  to close Hs accounts in late November 2018. It wrote to H on 
30 November 2018 to say that it would do so in two months time.  
Shortly before the letter  was sent, Mr H found that he was unable  to access  Hs current 
account. Access to the account had been  suspended  while under review by the bank  from 
28 November 2018, until this was lifted about  a week later.
Mr H complained. He was unhappy that hed had no notice of the account suspension and 
that hed not been  told the reasons behind the banks decisions  despite  calling and visiting 
a branch. He said the suspension had caused H cash flow problems, meant it lost out on 
donations and damaged  its reputation. He asked for more time to find an alternative bank 
and wanted Yorkshire  Bank to make a donation  to H by way of compensation for what 
happened.
Yorkshire Bank extended the notice period by a further month. But it said it had carefully 
reviewed the position  before reaching its decision to close Hs accounts, which wouldnt be 
changed. 
Mr H referred  the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. He didnt 
think Yorkshire Bank had done anything wrong in suspending and closing Hs accounts, 
which had been  carried out in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions. And he 
said the bank  wasnt obliged to explain the reasons  for its decision.  
Mr H remained  unhappy. He thought the terms and conditions were  unfair, and that the bank 
had acted unreasonably in suspending access to the account without notifying him. And he 
said it was difficult to assess  the banks actions without knowing the reasons  for its decision. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Yorkshire Bank  like all banks in the UK  has a number of legal and regulatory obligations 
to meet  in continuing to provide services to its customers. Banks are required to keep 
accounts and their use under review, and may need  to suspend  access  or services  in order  
to do so. 
Ref: DRN64290962Such measures can, of course, lead to inconvenience for affected customers   like H. But 
while I dont doubt  that H was significantly affected by Yorkshire Banks actions, in order  for 
me to uphold their complaint Id need to find that the bank did something wrong. And I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I note that Mr H says that Hs current account was closed without notice. But thats 
not what happened. The bank suspended  access to the account around the same  time as it 
issued H with notice  of its intention to close the account.
The terms and conditions  of Hs accounts  allowed Yorkshire Bank to suspend  and withdraw  
its services. It has explained to us that it did so in order to comply  with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that was the case  and 
that its actions were reasonable. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong in suspending  
and closing Hs accounts. I appreciate that its frustrating for Mr H that Yorkshire  Bank hasnt 
explained its reasons to him, but its not required to do so.
Yorkshire Bank gave  H two months  notice of its decision to close  the accounts   as 
provided for under the conditions  which gave it sufficient time, in my view, to make  
alternative arrangements. In the event, it ended  up giving  H additional  time  with a further  
month before closing  the current account and even longer in respect of the foreign currency  
account. It didnt  notify H of the suspension,  but it wasnt required to do so and thats not 
something Id expect of it. And I dont think it remained in place for any longer than was 
necessary.
Mr H suggests that the conditions  at issue here are unfair in light of the applicable legislation 
on the fairness of contract terms. Only a court  could  make  a ruling on that. But in considering  
the position more broadly, I dont think its unfair for the bank to rely on these conditions.  
They enable the bank to comply with the various legal and regulatory obligations it has, as 
Ive noted above. Such  provisions are commonplace  across  the industry. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Yorkshire Bank  did anything wrong in how it 
handled the suspension or closure of Hs accounts. And so while  I appreciate that this matter 
has had a significant impact on H and that Mr H understandably  feels  very strongly about it, 
Im not requiring the bank  to take any action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6429096