K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the decision made  by Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited 
(L&G) to turn down a group income protection claim. 
background
Mr W stopped work in his management role in June  2017. His late wife had sadly  been 
diagnosed with a terminal illness, and he says he experienced stress and depression as a 
result. He submitted a claim  to L&G.
L&G turned down the claim. It thought Mr W had stopped work in order  to be a carer  for his 
wife, rather than because  he was experiencing symptoms that prevented him from working. 
Unhappy with L&Gs decision, Mr W brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigator initially didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He agreed with L&G that 
the main reason Mr W had stopped work was to care for his wife. He thought the stress that 
Mr W reported was a consequence of that, rather than the underlying  reason why he couldnt  work. 
However, when Mr W provided a further report from his GP, our investigator changed his 
mind. He thought  the new evidence from the GP was persuasive  and showed  that Mr W had 
experienced stress and depression which prevented  him from working. He recommended 
L&G pay the claim. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2020. My findings were:
I would first of all like to say how sorry I am for Mr Ws loss. I understand it may be upsetting 
for him to read references to his late wifes illness, so Ill try and keep these  references  as 
brief as I can. 
A claim  will be payable,  after a deferred period of six months, if Mr W is unable  to perform  
the essential duties of his occupation due to illness or injury  throughout the deferred  period 
(13 June 2017  12 December  2017). Ive therefore considered the medical evidence.  
When Mr W initially stopped work, his GP signed him off with carer stress. After  that, his GP 
continued to sign him off with stress  throughout  the remainder of the deferred  period. 
When Mr W submitted  his claim in July 2017, he said he was experiencing stress arising 
from caring for his wife. He explained the symptoms that stopped  him from working were  
managing medication,  hospital and GP appointments, and managing household activities. At 
that time,  he hadnt  been prescribed any medication,  but said hed received counselling and 
hospice support.  
In August  2017,  L&Gs rehab nurse (Ms B) spoke with Mr W. He explained  to her that he 
was worried and feeling anxious  about  his wife, and that he struggled  to relax and his 
concentration levels were  reduced.  Mr W said hed accessed an employee assistance 
programme and had completed two sessions,  but didnt find this helpful. He also explained 
that he and his wife had received hospice support by way of practical adjustments  to the 
home, as well as financial  advice. And hed attended group support at the hospice, so he 
could meet other partners in the same situation  as him, which he found  helpful. 
Ref: DRN66155882Ms B concluded that Mr W was absent  due to his wife being  unwell. Although  his wife was 
able to wash and dress independently,  Mr W was doing all the domestic chores, as well as 
taking her to medical  appointments.  Ms B thought  Mr Ws symptoms were  in keeping  with a 
normal reaction to his wifes situation, and noted he wasnt receiving any medical care. She 
advised him of medical support available to him if his symptoms deteriorated. Although she 
didnt think his absence  from work  was medical,  she thought it likely he would remain  absent 
from work while the situation  with his wife was ongoing.
As L&G didnt think  Mr Ws absence from work was for medical  reasons, his employer 
agreed to close the claim. However, in January 2018, his employer advised L&G that Mr W 
had been experiencing  stress, anxiety  and depression. L&G therefore reopened the claim to 
consider this. 
In February 2018,  another of L&Gs rehab  nurses  (Ms H) spoke with Mr W. He said he was 
experiencing depression and anxiety as a result of his wife being terminally ill. Mr W 
explained he was being seen by a psychologist with his wife to help them cope with her 
illness. Ms H concluded  that Mr Ws absence was entirely due to his home circumstances 
which were impacting on his psychological  health. She didnt think Mr W was capable of 
returning to work due to his symptoms of depression  and severe  anxiety. 
L&G then wrote to Mr Ws GP for some more information about Mr Ws health. The GP 
responded in March  2018 to say Mr W had a diagnosis  of carer stress,  and the stress impact  of 
a relatives illness prevents a return to work. The GP said Mr W had been  seen for 
psychological input  in February 2018, and that Mr W didnt require medications for his 
symptoms. The GP said it wasnt possible to say whether Mr W could return  to work if his carer 
responsibilities were removed, as his stress  may still affect work even if this were the case. 
L&G again  declined the claim, as it didnt think Mr W was prevented  from working because 
of a medical condition  throughout the deferred period. 
In June 2018, Mr Ws GP said hed diagnosed him with depression, and had started him on 
antidepressant medication. 
L&G explained Mr Ws employer had changed insurer  and so the policy  had ended  on 31 
March 2018. It accepted  that the GP information from June 2018 supported that Mr W wasnt  
able to work, but said this was after its liability under the policy had ended.  
My conclusions
Based on the information Ive seen, Im inclined to agree with L&G that Mr W initially stopped  
work to assist his wife. I can of course understand that Mr W was feeling very worried and 
anxious about the situation, and particularly about  what was going  to happen in the future. 
But Mr Ws own reported symptoms that stopped  him from working werent related to his 
mental health, and instead related to him helping his wife  such as managing medication 
and managing hospital appointments.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ws GP had signed him off work, his GP had diagnosed him with 
carer stress, and didnt  diagnose him with depression until June 2018  which was some  
months after the deferred period had ended.  
It may be helpful if I explain that the NHS says that stress is not an illness itself, though it 
can cause serious illness  if it isnt addressed. Because stress isnt an illness, I generally 
Ref: DRN66155883dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to expect to see more  evidence that someone 
isnt able to work, other than sick notes signing someone off for stress. 
When L&Gs  rehab  nurses spoke  with Mr W in August 2017 and February 2018, they asked 
Mr W to complete some assessments. These  were  GAD-7 and PHQ-9  assessments. GAD-7 
is a generalised  anxiety  disorder assessment, and the scores can indicate the severity of 
someones anxiety. PHQ-9 is a patient health  questionnaire for depression,  and the scores 
can indicate the severity  of someones  depression.
In August  2017,  L&Gs rehab nurse concluded that Mr Ws symptoms were a normal  
reaction to the situation, and she didnt  think his absence from work was medical.  At that 
time, his GAD-7 score was moderate and his PHQ-9 score was mild. 
However, in February  2018, L&Gs rehab nurse  thought Mr W was experiencing symptoms 
of depression and anxiety, and these symptoms prevented  him from working.  Her 
conclusions in this respect were  seemingly based  on the increase of his GAD-7  score to 
moderately severe, and the increase of his PHQ-9 score to severe. 
Based solely  on this evidence, it does seem  as though Mr Ws symptoms  worsened between 
August 2017 and February 2018. However, the rehab nurses  view that Mr W was 
experiencing depression and anxiety in February  2018 doesnt correspond with the 
information from Mr Ws GP provided in March  2018. The GP said Mr W had been  
diagnosed with carer stress and didnt require medication for his symptoms. This would 
suggest that Mr Ws symptoms were a response  to the situation he was in, rather than a 
mental health condition which prevented him from working. 
I appreciate Mr Ws symptoms then got worse,  because  in June 2018 his GP diagnosed him 
with depression, started him on antidepressant  medication and confirmed he couldnt  work 
because of his depression. The evidence  from June 2018 supports that Mr W wasnt  able to 
work because of his mental health.  However, this was after the deferred period had ended.
Mr W explains he was able to obtain  a sick note from his GP the first month he was off work, 
but after that, repeat notes were provided  without the GP seeing  him. He says it was only in 
June 2018 when he met with his GP again, and at that time, his condition  was much  worse. 
He says he tried to keep  going and wasnt aware of how bad he was. He accepts he should 
have engaged with his GP and sought help earlier, but thinks hes being  penalised  by L&G 
for struggling  to carry on.
I can understand the points Mr W is making. However, when considering  whether or not an 
insurer has acted fairly  in turning down a claim, we are reliant  upon  the medical evidence.  
Here, theres very limited medical  information  throughout the deferred  period. Mr W accepts 
he wasnt engaging  with his GP, which means  theres no medical  evidence  from this time 
from his GP (other than the sick notes signing him off with stress) to support that his 
symptoms prevented him from working. 
Since bringing his complaint to this service, Mr W has provided a further letter  from his GP 
dated September 2019. His GP says it was clear  when first diagnosed that Mr W was 
suffering with his own significant levels of stress linked  into his informal  carer role at that 
time. The GP says he was seen on a number of occasions throughout 2017  and 2018, and 
was signed fully unfit for work on medical  grounds  of stress/depression throughout the entire 
time from June 2017 to June 2018. The GP says Mr W provided valuable  long-term informal 
Ref: DRN66155884care for his wife, which clearly took its toll on his own health, preventing  him from working  
and leading, ultimately, to a diagnosis of depression.
The further information from Mr Ws GP doesnt actually provide us with any new 
information. And although the GP says Mr W was seen  on a number of occasions 
throughout 2017 and 2018,  I understand the majority of these  appointments were  held over 
the phone. Mr W has confirmed he was initially seen by his GP after first stopping work, but 
then didnt see his GP again until June 2018, which was around a year later.  It was only in 
June 2018 that he was diagnosed with depression.
Although Mr W didnt  engage much with his GP during the deferred period, he did complete 
the GAD-7 and PHQ-9  assessments  for L&G during the deferred period and again shortly  
after it ended.  As Ive said, based  on his scores, it would seem that his symptoms  worsened 
between August 2017 and February  2018.  Though even if I were to accept  that Mr W wasnt 
able to work as of February 2018, this was still after the deferred period  had ended  on 12 
December 2017.  For the claim to be payable, Mr W needs to show  that he wasnt able to 
work throughout the whole deferred period. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I dont think the evidence  supports that his symptoms 
prevented him from working throughout the deferred  period.  Consequently, I think  it was 
reasonable for L&G to turn down the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Mr W responded to say that he was not simply fulfilling a carers role, and what initially  
started as stress then became depression.  He says his depression had manifested  itself at 
the time he stopped work and he believes the latest information from his GP clarified this. 
Mr W says he cant  believe  that his situation is being  described  as non-medical  and provided 
us with an internet  link to articles relating  to depression in spouses with cancer. 
L&G didnt provide us with any further  comments.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
expressed in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the articles provided  by Mr W, and I do appreciate these articles support that 
depression can often manifest  in spouses/partners of people with serious illnesses, such as 
cancer. However, in considering whether Mr W meets the terms of this policy  for a claim to 
be paid, I need  to consider his own circumstances and the medical  evidence  that relates 
solely to him. 
Mr W says that his condition started as stress,  but then became depression. I dont disagree 
with this. The medical evidence supports that he was experiencing stress throughout 2017,  
then in 2018 his symptoms became worse  and he was diagnosed  with depression. 
However, I dont agree  with Mr W that the latest  information from his GP (the letter  dated  
September 2019) confirms that he was experiencing depression  from the date he stopped 
work. In that letter, the GP explained  that when Mr W was first diagnosed he was suffering 
with stress. I accept this. The GP then said Mr W was signed fully unfit for work on medical  
Ref: DRN66155885grounds of stress/depression throughout the entire  time from June 2017 to June 2018.  I also 
accept that Mr W was signed off work with stress or depression  during this period  he was 
signed off with stress from June 2017,  and then in June 2018  he was signed  off with 
depression. 
The information from the GP therefore confirms what we already knew from the available 
medical evidence.  I fully accept that Mr W initially presented  with stress, and that his 
symptoms then got worse, and developed  into depression.  However, as I explained  in my 
provisional decision - for the claim to be payable, there would need to be evidence to 
support that Mr Ws symptoms prevented him from working throughout the relevant deferred 
period (13 June 2017  12 December 2017).
Im afraid the limited medical  evidence  from the deferred period doesnt support this. Mr Ws 
own reported symptoms  at the time werent related to his mental health, and the evidence 
from the rehab nurse in August 2017 was that he was worried  and feeling anxious, and that 
he struggled to relax and his concentration levels were  reduced. Whilst its entirely 
understandable why Mr W was feeling that way, I dont think  itd be reasonable  to say that 
those symptoms prevented him from carrying out his role. 
Consequently, I remain satisfied that it was appropriate for L&G to turn down the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6615588