K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms M complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited declined  their claim under their travel 
insurance policy and about its customer service.  My references to Aviva  include  its agents 
including the medical emergency assistance  service.
background
Mr B and Ms M had travel insurance with Aviva. They were  on holiday in Europe when 
unfortunately Mr B was found injured with several  fractures at the bottom of a high wall 
which was about  two stories high. Ms M wasnt with him at the time and it isnt clear what 
happened. From the initial calls between  Aviva, Ms M and Mr B it appears he was sitting on 
the wall at a pub and either fell or was pushed. The police werent involved. Mr B was 
admitted to a public hospital for several days.  
In summary,  Mr B and Ms M complain  that:
Aviva  declined their claim while Mr B was in hospital. They say Mr B doesnt know  
what happened to him so Aviva  couldnt  say hed deliberately  put himself at risk. 
they felt they were  being interrogated by Aviva despite them making  it clear  that Mr B 
couldnt remember what happened
they think Aviva should have  given them more support and advice  as they were 
vulnerable
Aviva  were too slow in getting the provisional replacement  certificate  (PRC) to cover  
Mr Bs treatment  in the public  hospital (as he didnt  have a valid EHIC  card with him). 
That meant the hospital hadnt  got the PRC when Mr B was discharged and the 
hospital chased them for the costs 
Aviva  didnt respond to their complaint by the initial date it gave and it was late in 
responding to their subject access request
Mr B and Ms M want Aviva to make them an offer to put them  back  in the position they were 
before the incident happened  to take into account:
the lost cost of the holiday for the days Mr B was in hospital
Ms Ms taxi costs  between  the hotel and hospital
Mr B wasn't able to return  to work  for nearly  two months and only received statutory 
sick pay
due to incorrect surgical procedure abroad Mr Bs hand is disfigured and he had 
ongoing physio
Ms M was off work with the stress  of it all.
Aviva said it had fairly declined the claim and overall  it had acted  reasonably, although it 
could have kept Mr B and Ms M better informed about what  it was doing to assist  them.
Our investigator thought Aviva had fairly  declined the claim. Once she received more  
information about what happened  with the PRC she said Aviva had given reasonable 
service.
Mr B and Ms M disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN69310682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see that Mr B and Ms M had a very distressing experience. But I have to decide 
whether Aviva acted  fairly and reasonably and I think it did. I dont uphold the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
claim
Aviva declined Mr Bs emergency medical  expenses claim for two reasons.  The policys  
excludes:
Any claim where during  the trip you deliberately put yourself at risk of death, injury,  
illness or disability  (unless  you were  trying to save human  life).
Also, the reasonable care section of the policy says:
You must take the same level of care as you would take if you did not have this 
insurance. You must  take all reasonable precautions to protect yourself  and prevent 
accidents, theft, loss or damage.
When a claim  is made the burden  of proof is on the policyholder  to evidence what  happened.  
Its not known what  happened to cause  Mr Bs injuries. The hospital report says the injuries  
were caused  by a fall from a height. Ive seen Ms Ms photos of where  Mr B was found  
injured but that doesnt explain what happened  for him to be injured. In one of the calls with 
Aviva Ms M said that one of the paramedics thought  Mr B had been pushed by a man. But 
there are no witness statements by anyone who saw what happened  and theres not been 
police involvement.  Ms M couldnt get a police report because a police report  isnt provided 
unless someone  has been charged.
As theres  no evidence  to explain how Mr B was injured, in the circumstances I think  Aviva 
could reasonably take the position  it did and decline the claim.
Mr B says if he was told by Aviva he had to provide evidence  of how he got his injuries 
things could have  been done differently.  But I dont  think Aviva  delayed in telling him it 
declined the claim  and why so if he wanted  to take further steps to find out what happened  
he could have done so. Having said that, I do understand Mr B and Ms Ms focus was on 
getting him better.  But I don't think Aviva needed  to do anything  more.
I should note that even  if I thought  Aviva  had unfairly  declined  the emergency  medical  
expenses claim there  may not be have been  any covered expenses  for Aviva to pay. The 
medical expenses  were covered under the PRC (EHIC) and when Mr B was discharged from 
the hospital they continued the holiday and returned  home on their planned flight. To my 
knowledge they incurred no additional cost.  
The taxi costs Ms M spent  going between the hospital and hotel arent covered by the policy.  
Mr B may have been  able to claim for the cost of the lost days of his holiday when he was in 
hospital depending on the policy terms. But as I think Aviva fairly declined  cover for the 
incident I dont  need to look into the issue further.
Ref: DRN69310683The policy doesnt  cover  lost employment  income due to an injury. 
The policy does have  a personal accident  section that pays a benefit in some circumstances. 
Mr B may want to make  a separate claim under that section for Aviva to reasonably  assess  
subject to the policy terms and conditions. 
If the hospital abroad carried  out surgery incorrectly which has affected Mr B, and Ive seen 
no medical evidence  of that, its the hospitals responsibility. Mr B may wish to complain to 
the hospital directly  about that issue. 
service
Aviva accepts it didnt keep Mr B and Ms M fully informed  of all it was doing  to assist them. 
I dont think Aviva's  service was perfect  but I do think  it was reasonable.     
Mr B and Ms M have  highlighted that Aviva  sent them  an introduction email three days  after 
Ms Ms first contacted it. But its clear from Avivas  notes, which Mr B and Ms M have, that it 
had been in contact with them several times before  then. 
Mr B and Ms M felt interrogated by Aviva  questioning them. But I think Avivas questions  
were reasonable and asked in a fair way. It needed to get as much information as it could  
about the incident to decide whether it would provide cover. Aviva didnt unnecessarily  delay 
in declining the claim. It also continued to provide assistance after the claim was declined,  
which was reasonable.
Understandably, Mr B and Ms M were distressed and felt vulnerable given what  had 
happened. But I think Aviva recognised that and provided reasonable assistance.  For 
example, I wouldnt have expected Aviva to go into detail about  possible  alternative return 
travel arrangements  until it was clear  that would be required. 
Initially our investigator thought Aviva hadnt  done  enough to obtain the PRC and should pay 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B and Ms M. Aviva 
then provided more evidence and our investigator  explained to Mr B and Ms M why she 
changed her mind.   
Given the further evidence I dont think Aviva  was responsible for the hospital not receiving 
the PRC.  Our investigator gave  the details of what happened. In summary, Aviva chose to 
help Mr B and Ms M apply for a PRC.  It didnt  delay unnecessarily in making  the application 
to the Department  of Work and Pensions, whose responsibility it was to send the PRC  to the 
hospital. The hospital hadnt  received the PRC  despite it being sent to the correct email 
address by the DWP several  times.  It was frustrating for Ms M when Aviva again asked her 
for Mr Bs email  address so the DWP could  send the PRC to him direct.  Aviva apologised at 
the time that it asked for the email address again, as was reasonable. Apart from asking  for 
the email address again I dont think Aviva  did anything wrong in relation to the PRC.
Ive seen evidence  from Ms Ms GP that she took time off work with stress when she 
returned home. She was very upset about  the whole situation. But as I think Aviva gave 
reasonable service  theres no basis for me to award  compensation.
It isnt clear exactly how long Aviva took to provide a response  to Mr Bs subject access  
request. If Mr B has concerns about  how Aviva handled the request our investigator  has 
Ref: DRN69310684correctly said its appropriate  for the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  to look at that 
issue, rather than this service, and Mr B may wish to contact the ICO.
Mr B also says Aviva took too long to answer  his complaint, which  was made around 
11 February. Aviva's acknowledgement letter didnt say it would fully respond to Mr Bs 
complaint in 10 working days but that it would contact him. Avivas next letter  gave Mr B a 
revised timescale. Its final response letter on the complaint was sent on 22 March.  That's  
within the eight  weeks the relevant rules say a business has to respond to a complaint. Aviva 
dealt with the complaint in a reasonable timescale.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 June 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6931068