K820x#13complaint
Ms B and Mr W say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think YBS mis-sold the PPI to Ms B and Mr W for the following reasons:
I thought YBS made  Ms B and Mr W aware  they had a choice in taking PPI, and they 
subsequently chose to take it.
It wasnt clear  if YBS recommended the PPI to Ms W and Mr B or not. But even if it had 
recommended they buy the cover. I thought  it was suitable for their needs.
I thought it was possible that the information YBS gave Ms B and Mr W about  the PPI 
might not have been as clear as it should  have. But I didnt think  clearer information 
wouldve stopped  them  from buying  the PPI, given  their circumstances at the time.
But I did think YBS should  pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and Mr W because : 
When the policy was sold,  YBS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Ms B and Mr W about 
that. Because YBS didnt tell Ms B and Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
YBS responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed it should pay back some  of the 
cost of the PPI premium  relating  to the commission and profit  share that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.
Ms B and Mr W responded to say that they didnt  agree with my provisional  decision and 
made a number of points  relating to this. Many of the points theyve made I have already 
covered off in my provisional decision and so I wont address these again. 
But I will cover off some of the points that I feel Ms B and Mr W feel strongly about. Based 
on their most recent email to us, I think these  are the below:
They say YBS told them in 2009 that despite Ms Bs change  in employment, she 
would still be able to make an unemployment  claim.
They say theyve  provided evidence (a letter confirming the declined application) that 
they met with YBS in 2009. They say that at this point they told YBS that Ms B was 
on a fixed term contract and was paid an allowance and not a salary.  Ms B and Mr W 
say that at this meeting they provided payslips, so YBS ought to have let them  know 
the PPI was no longer suitable  for Ms B. 
Ref: DRN65492472They are concerned YBS hasnt been able to give me the paperwork relating to one 
of their mortgage applications.
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding Ms 
B and Mr Ws complaint about  the mis-sale of this PPI policy.
As Ive already  said in my provisional decision, this decision is about  how the PPI was sold  
so I havent looked into the declined claim.  
I understand that Ms B and Mr W arent happy because YBS no longer has a copy of the 
mortgage application from 2009.  I agree this is unfortunate, but this isnt surprising or 
unusual  especially  as this application  was declined, so there  wasnt really a need  for YBS 
to keep this information. Ive seen a copy of a letter  Ms B and Mr W have sent me. This 
shows that the application for the mortgage was declined  but it doesnt give me any more  
information about what was discussed  at the time.
I know that Ms B and Mr W feel strongly  about what they say they were  told in the meeting in 
2009  in that they think YBS told them that Ms B would still be covered under the policy  
given her change  in employment.  There arent notes of the meeting  available, so I cant be 
sure what  was discussed. I agree its likely YBS knew  that Ms B had changed roles, but this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that they would  have known about the change in employment 
status. I dont have any information  at all that shows there was a discussion  about PPI  or 
that Ms B and Mr W were  told that theyd still be able to make a successful unemployment  
claim given  Ms Bs employment status. So because of this, I dont  have enough evidence to 
say YBS did anything wrong here.
I agree  that Ms B and Mr W would have  given YBS details of Ms Bs employment  when they 
applied for additional lending in 2009.  But I think it likely that this would have been to 
specifically assess their circumstances  for the borrowing  not the PPI. And as the 
application was declined, it wouldnt have been necessary for YBS to discuss  PPI with Ms B 
and Mr W  as there wasnt any further  borrowing being added to the mortgage.
Ive looked into the point  Ms B and Mr W have made about  a new policy  being sold in 2007  
when they increased  the lending. I havent  seen  anything  to make me think that a separate 
policy was sold at this time. 
Ref: DRN65492473I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms B and Mr W, but I cant fairly say 
their complaint about the mis-sale should be upheld. But as Ive mentioned above, I dont 
think YBS made it clear how much commission and profit share was going to be charged  
so some of this has to be refunded.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Ms B and Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Ms B and Mr W any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Ms B and Mr W the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Ms B and Mr W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms B and Mr W can claim back  the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and Mr W.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Ms B and Mr W any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65492474copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms B and Mr W say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B and Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. They  paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy. The policy was designed to cover Ms B and Mr W in the event that they couldnt  work through 
accident, sickness or if they became involuntarily  unemployed.
Ms B and Mr W increased the cover of the PPI in 2005 and again in 2007.
Over the course of this complaint, Ms B and Mr W have also mentioned that they had an 
unemployment claim declined in 2009.  But because this decision is about  how the policy was sold,  
Ive only looked at this element of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint.  Ms B and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms B and Mr Ws case. 
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Ms B and Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why. 
YBS should have made it clear to Ms B and Mr W that they didnt have to take out a PPI policy  and it 
should have got their consent before  adding the cover. Ms B and Mr W havent specifically 
complained about this point, but for completeness, Ive considered this anyway  and having done  so, I 
think YBS made  it clear the PPI was optional  and I think it got Ms B and Mr Ws consent before 
adding the cover.
It isnt clear to me if YBS recommended  Ms B and Mr W buy the PPI. But I dont think  this point makes 
a difference to the outcome of this complaint,  I say this because even  if YBS did recommend the 
cover  meaning that it had to check the policy  was suitable for their needs,  based on what  Ms B and 
Mr W have  told me about  their circumstances  at the time, I think  it was right for them. For example 
they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had 
a need for the cover.  
From the information Ive seen, I think its possible the information YBS gave Ms B and Mr W about  
the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the policy - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think  better information  about  
the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ms B and Mr Ws main  complaint is that it would  have  been difficult for Ms B to make a claim on the 
PPI policy  given her changes in employment status across  the duration of the policy. 
Ms B and Mr W originally took out mortgage in 2003  they didnt buy at PPI policy at this time. We 
have a letter  on file from Ms Bs employer  at that time to say that she had been employed  since April 
2003  and that this would be for the foreseeable future.  
Ref: DRN65492475In 2004, Ms B and Mr W applied for additional lending  and it was at this point that they bought a PPI 
policy. Ive looked at the application they completed for the loan. The application  form was signed  and 
dated by Ms B and Mr W in December 2004. Ms Bs employer on the application remains the same as 
it was when  she applied for the mortgage in 2003. The application says that she shed  been employed 
for what looks like, two years  and eight months. The application also shows that Ms B was a full time 
and permanent  employee.  So I dont think Ms B was ineligible for the cover  or would have been 
caught by any of the main things that might have made it difficult for her to make a successful  claim.
In 2005 I can see that Ms B and Mr W applied  to make an amendment  to their existing PPI policy to 
increase the monthly  benefit. So I dont think this policy  was sold again  under new terms and 
conditions  which means the terms and conditions from the 2004 sale continued   as did the policy.
I can see that Ms B had changed employer  on the loan application form that had been signed  and 
dated in November 2005, and shed been in her new role for eight months  
Ms B told YBS at this point that she was a permanent employee. Ms B says this contract was on a 
temporary basis and was due to end in two weeks. YBS say they werent  aware of this.
Ms B says she was unemployed up until January 2006, when she was became employed on a zero 
hour contract.  I have  a copy of two faxes  from this employer on file. The first fax is dated 4 January 
2006 and says that Ms B was due to start on 9 January 2006, but at that time they were  unable to 
confirm how many  hours shed be working  and that there are no guaranteed hours  offered. The 
fax then states that it couldnt offer any further information  about  this point at that time.
Later, on 17 January  2006, the same employer sent a fax further to the previous one it sent to confirm 
that it had offered Ms B 25 hours per week. So I dont think that YBS would  have thought  that Ms B 
was on a zero hour contract.
So I agree that the PPI might not have been useful to Ms B at some points, but I dont think  this 
makes a difference to the outcome of this case. I say this because when  Ms B and Mr W took out the 
policy in 2004, Ms B was a permanent full time employee. So I dont think  YBS did anything  wrong by 
selling her a policy. I agree  that YBS might not have made the terms relating  to certain types of 
employment status  clear to her, but I dont think this would have made a difference to her decision to 
buy the policy  at the time because she wouldnt have been affected by these  terms. And I dont  think 
that when they bought the cover, they were expecting Ms Bs employment  status  to change.
I agree that the changes  in Ms Bs employment status  over time might have meant that she could 
have found it difficult to make a successful unemployment claim. But it was up to Ms B and Mr W to 
let the insurer know if their circumstances change. And it wasnt up to YBS to assess the ongoing 
suitability of the policy.  So if the policy was no longer  appropriate, then it would have been  up to Ms B 
and Mr W to cancel it.
The PPI policy was then amended again in 2007  to increase the level of benefit. And again, I think  
this was an amendment to the 2004 policy, so still the same terms and conditions.
Ms B tried to make a claim on the policy in 2011 and the claim was declined because  of Ms Bs 
employment status,  as I say, Ive only considered the sale of the policy so havent looked  at the 
declined claim.
But Ms B and Mr W say that YBS ought to have been aware of Ms Bs employment status  in 2008 
when they tried to apply for more borrowing but were declined. There  wasnt a new policy sold at this 
time, so I havent considered this as a separate sale. And although  Ms B and Mr W have shown  me 
information to say that they did have a discussion with YBS about additional  lending, I havent seen 
anything to make me think  that the PPI was discussed  again.  And again, it was ultimately  up to Ms B 
and Mr W to let the insurer know if their circumstances  changed. And it doesnt look as though they 
did this. So I dont think YBS has done anything wrong  here. 
Ref: DRN65492476Ive taken into account Ms B and Mr Ws comments, including but these points dont currently change 
my conclusion. Which means YBS doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and Mr 
W.
But YBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and Mr W because : 
When the policy was sold, YBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Ms B and Mr W about  that. Because YBS 
didnt tell Ms B and Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
YBS has to pay back to Ms B and Mr W any commission  and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Ms B and Mr W any extra  interest they paid 
because of that.
YBS should pay back to Ms B and Mr W the extra they paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Ms B and Mr W 8%* 
simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms B and Mr W can claim back  the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building  Society does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and Mr W.
But I think Yorkshire Building  Society does have  to pay back to Ms B and Mr W any commission  and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I now invite  Ms B and Mr W and YBS to give me any further information they want  me to consider 
before I make my final decision. This must be provided  to us by 13 August 2018.
Ref: DRN6549247