K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with a hire purchase  agreement provided by Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited (SMF). She says not enough  checks were completed when she took the borrowing 
to make sure it was affordable for her.
background
Miss M got a used car in December 2015.  She applied for finance through a broker and 
funded the whole cost of the car with a hire purchase agreement  provided by SMF. The car 
cost £6,919, with a total payable under the agreement of £14,738.80  over the term of 61 
months. The regular  repayments were £238.23  per month.
Miss M made the monthly repayments for some time. But, around March  2018 she stopped  
making the repayments due to financial difficulty. She later complained  to SMF and said it 
didnt do enough  to make  sure the lending was affordable for her when she took it.
SMF issued its final response in April 2019. It said it wasnt upholding the complaint. It said 
before it agreed  the borrowing Miss M confirmed she earned £1,500 a month, was 
permanently employed  and lived with her partner.  SMF said it ran a credit check on Miss M 
and made  sure the lending fit its affordability  model. And it said Miss M signed the 
agreement and other paperwork confirming the lending was affordable.
Miss M was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to our service. She said she 
earned around £1,000 a month when she took the borrowing and was on maternity  leave. 
And she said she had to borrow from other sources  to make the repayments.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ms complaint. She said,  in summary, that she thought 
SMF didnt do enough checks to make  sure Miss M could afford the borrowing.  But, she said 
having looked at information from the time, if SMF did do enough checks then this wouldve  
shown Miss M could afford the borrowing. So, she didnt think  Miss M had lost out.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators findings.  She reiterated that she was on maternity 
leave at the time. She said the process was rushed.  And she said she tried to reduce her 
repayments and return the car several  times but wasnt allowed to.
The case  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Miss M has mentioned not being able to lower her monthly repayments  and complained  
about issues with handing the car back part way through the agreement. These points have 
already been considered by this service, so I will not comment  further on this. This decision 
only considers if the borrowing was affordable for Miss M.
Miss M has complained about a hire purchase agreement. Providing consumer credit 
contracts like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can investigate  Miss Ms concerns 
about SMF.
Ref: DRN61175522When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations,  
rules and, where appropriate,  what I consider  having  been good industry practice at the time. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules about checking lending  is affordable  
for consumers in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which  I will take account of.
SMF will be well aware of the rules, regulations and good industry practice here for what 
checks it shouldve done. So, I dont need to go into full detail here.  But in summary, CONC 
explains SMF needed  to make reasonable and proportionate checks to make  sure Miss M 
could afford  to repay any borrowing  in a sustainable way.
So, what  I need to consider in this case is whether SMF did enough to check  the borrowing 
was affordable for Miss M before it agreed the lending. If it didnt, I need to consider if 
Miss M has lost out because of this.
Ive considered what checks SMF said it did when  it agreed to lend to Miss M. It said it asked 
for her income and details about  her living situation.  It then used an automated  system to 
verify her income and provide information  on income stability  and confidence. It then used 
this information  to estimate  how much of Miss Ms income was non-discretionary 
expenditure. 
SMF then said the borrowing went through its underwriting process where it looked into 
Miss Ms credit file data and any other  available information. Based on all of this, SMF said it 
was happy Miss Ms borrowing was affordable.
Thinking about  the borrowing Miss M took,  she was due to pay back  nearly  £15,000 over a 
period of around five years. Her monthly  repayments were around £240  a month. Im 
satisfied this represented a significant  financial commitment for Miss M. Ive considered that 
Miss M paid no deposit for the car. And, Ive also considered that Miss M had some negative  
information on her credit  file at the time. I think this shouldve prompted  SMF  to look into 
things in more  detail.
Ive carefully thought  about all of this. I appreciate SMF used data to estimate Miss Ms 
outgoings. And it asked  what her income was. But, it didnt verify these things, by doing 
checks such as asking  for wage slips,  doing a detailed income and expenditure report with 
Miss M or by checking her bank  statements.
Thinking about  everything, Im satisfied SMF did not do sufficient and proportionate checks 
to make sure the borrowing was affordable  for Miss M. 
I have considered that SMF said it did a welcome call with Miss M where it said she couldve 
raised any concerns.  I dont know what was discussed here. But, this call was made after the 
lending was agreed. So, this doesnt  change my opinion.
So, I now need to consider if Miss M has lost out as a result of this. In other words, I need to 
think about what wouldve  happened  if SMF did do enough checks  before it agreed to lend to 
Miss M. 
Miss M has provided bank  statements for the three  months before she took the borrowing. 
So, Ive reviewed these  to consider her financial situation at the time.
Ref: DRN61175523Miss M says her income was around  £1,000  a month at this point. But, it doesnt  appear this 
is correct. Looking at her salary, as an average across the three months  Ive seen Miss M 
earned around £1,934 a month. 
Miss M told us she owed money  to family members. And I can see transfers being made on 
her bank statements. But, as far as Im aware, these were informal  arrangements  with no 
formal commitment or contract  in place. The amounts  varied month to month. I dont think  its 
most likely she wouldve told SMF  at the time that these payments represented a fixed  sum 
that had to be repaid every month.  So, I havent  considered these payments to be part of 
Miss Ms essential outgoings.
Ive reviewed Miss Ms bank  statements and looked for what appear to be essential 
outgoings. Ive considered  what she told us she was paying her partner for bills and rent. 
And, Ive thought  about what Miss M told us her car insurance and petrol  costs  were - along 
with the new borrowing
Having done so, it appears after these  costs Miss M would have been left with roughly 
£1,000 a month to cover  her other  expenses. Im satisfied this means the borrowing was 
affordable for her. It follows that, even though Im satisfied SMF didnt  do enough checks to 
ensure the borrowing was affordable  for Miss M, Im also satisfied that if it did, it still 
wouldve lent to her. So, I dont think Miss M has lost out here and therefore  SMF doesnt  
need to take any further action.
I have considered what Miss M said about  being  on maternity leave at the time. But, I 
havent seen enough to make me think its most likely she told this to SMF. She signed an 
affordability and employment  declaration that said,  You are not currently aware of any 
changes in circumstances which may occur  before  the end of the finance agreement that 
you are applying for which may have a significant  adverse impact on your income or your 
expenditure, your benefits and tax credits.
Even if Miss M did tell SMF she was on maternity leave, she was still receiving an income 
that I think was enough  to support  the borrowing  even considering  the lowest monthly  
amount Ive seen  from across the three months, rather than the average. And, I can see 
from SMFs system notes  that she later told it that she was due to return  to work around 
three months after taking  the agreement. So, thinking about everything here, this doesnt 
change my decision.
Ive also considered that Miss M says the process  was rushed and she was pressured into 
taking the finance. But, she applied for the borrowing  several days before she signed the 
agreement to take it. So, I dont think its likely she was pressured.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6117552