K821x#15complaint
Miss E is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined  her water damage  claim and 
cancelled her buildings insurance policy.
background
Miss E made a claim on her buildings insurance  following water damage.  UKI accepted  the 
claim and arranged for her family to move  into alternative accommodation and a place for 
her pet to stay.
Several months later,  UKI told Miss E it was declining the rest of her claim and it cancelled  
her policy.  UKI said Miss E had falsely inflated her claim  for pet costs.  Miss E didnt accept 
this and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He accepted Miss Es explanation. He didnt think  
Miss E had inflated  her claim or that shed gained financially.  He asked UKI to reinstate the 
policy and continue dealing  with Miss Es claim.  UKI didnt accept this, so the complaint has 
been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
When Miss E made her claim the house  was uninhabitable. UKI paid for a hotel until Miss E 
could be moved to a more  suitable  property. However, this new property didnt allow  pets, so 
UKI agreed  to pay the cost of looking  after Miss Es pet elsewhere. The fee for this was £17 
a day. Later, Miss E informed UKI that shed had to change arrangements for her pet. The 
new arrangement  with (B), cost £19 a day; and UKI accepted this.
Before the claim concluded  UKI noticed a discrepancy with one of the pet invoices.  It asked 
who had provided  the invoices, and Miss E confirmed it was B. Ive listened to the 
subsequent telephone call between B and UKI. B is clear that the pet cost was £10 per day, 
that shed never created any invoices for Miss E, she was never asked  to, but she had 
offered to.
UKI went back to Miss E who then admitted shed created the invoices herself.  She said this 
was because B didnt  know  how to, and she was trying to help. But she maintained  that the 
daily cost was £19.
Based on UKIs investigation and the inconsistent information UKI declined the claim. It also 
cancelled Miss Es policy. In doing  so, UKI relied on the following policy term:
Fraud: You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that 
is in any way fraudulent,  false  or exaggerated. If you; any person insured under this policy;  
or anyone  acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, 
false or exaggerated claim: your policy may be cancelled; we may reject your claim and any 
subsequent claims;  we may keep any premium  you have paid.
Following UKIs decision, Miss E provided  a new email chain between her and B. This 
showed Bs daily board charge was £10 but said she charged additional costs  for walks and 
food dependant on the size of the pet. The additional charges were  £4 a day for food and £5 
Ref: DRN64443682for two walks  amounting  to an additional  £9 per day. The emails  also implied that B was 
aware that Miss E had been creating invoices on her behalf  and that she had been checking 
them prior to submitting  them  to UKI.
UKI said that as this email conversation took place  after its decision to cancel Miss Es 
policy, it wasnt persuaded by it. UKI said it was contradictory to what B had told it on the 
phone. I accept UKIs point here.
Miss E did provide an email chain with B where  they discussed  the arrangement.  It said 
Miss E would create  the invoices and B would  check them.  But, as UKI said, these emails 
took place after the cancellation  of the policy. This is very different to Bs original 
conversation with UKI where she said something entirely different about the costs and the 
invoices. In the call shes clear about  costs  and doesnt mention anything about  additional  
charges for food or walks.  Based  on this I think UKI acted reasonably when it declined to 
deal further with the claim and cancelled Miss Es policy.
Miss E said that UKI didnt ask B about additional charges, so she didnt expand on the costs  
for walks or food. But from listening to the call, I think B was given the opportunity to clarify 
any details she wanted to. UKI didnt ask B how much she was charging; this information  
was volunteered  by B and she maintained throughout the call that it was £10 a day.
I think UKI has acted reasonably when it declined to deal with Miss Es claim and cancelled  
her policy.  I think  there is enough information for UKI to suspect fraud  in the circumstances. 
As such Im not asking  UKI to do anything further.
responses to my provisional  decision
UKI responded and said it had nothing further  to add.
Miss E responded and made several  points.  The main aspects were as follows:
If she was trying to commit fraud  she wouldnt have  provided the pet sitters  details;
Miss E was helping the pet sitter by creating the invoices;
UKI didnt  look at the evidence before cancelling;
The pet sitter didnt  think  to explain  the extra charges. She didnt think  these would be 
included;
The situation  feels unfair. Miss E wouldnt dream of committing  fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision Ive no other evidence to make  me 
review or change the provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against UK Insurance Limited.
Ref: DRN64443683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6444368