K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  plc has unfairly added his details to the fraud  database.  
background
TSB said Mr B applied for a bank account  online on 17 April 2018, with an address which he 
said hed lived at for over three years. TSB made  checks and said Mr B hadnt disclosed an 
address he was living at in 2017  at which he had debts not disclosed in his application. TSB 
concluded that he had provided false information in order to obtain a bank account and 
declined his application and added his details  to the fraud database. 
Mr B said he just needed a bank  account  as his life was very difficult without one. He said 
the consequences of his application to TSB dont recognise the vulnerable situation he is in. 
The investigator said the fraud marker concerned falsehoods, or false supporting documents 
provided by a customer in order to obtain a bank account. He said it appeared that false 
information had been provided  and TSB had grounds to reject  the application. However, he 
said TSB shouldve contacted Mr B to clarify his address history.  He said this additional step 
allows a bank to satisfy the threshold  for loading a customers details onto the fraud 
database. He said that TSB should now remove the fraud marker  against  Mr B.
Mr B agreed that the fraud marker  should  be removed, but said that he should be 
compensated for the impact  of TSBs  actions upon him.   
TSB disagreed with the investigator saying that they dont call consumers  for clarification  of 
their applications  in Mr Bs circumstances,  and werent minded to change  their procedures. 
TSB requested that an ombudsman review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B has brought separate complaints 
about the service  he has received from TSB and these will be considered  separately.
Ive looked carefully  at the TSBs handling  of Mr Bs application for an account to see what 
took place in order to decide if TSB has treated Mr B fairly. In so doing Ive taken full account 
of the very difficult personal and financial circumstances that Mr B has described.
I can well understand  Mr Bs desire to gain a bank  account as his life has been very difficult  
without one. We do generally expect banks to give customers a bank account, but there are 
circumstances when  a bank can withhold an account. One circumstance would be where a 
potential customer misrepresents their circumstances so as to create a dishonest  or 
fraudulent application. Businesses  are required to carry out sufficient checks to show  there 
are grounds not to open an account  and support a fraud marker. 
Ive seen the detail of Mr Bs application for an account with TSB. He hasnt referred  to a 
previous address for which he has adverse credit recorded. When  TSB discovered this it 
could have spoken to Mr B and given him chance  to disclose this address, but this didnt 
happen. TSB concluded that Mr B had deliberately  withheld this information without seeking  
clarification and registered a marker  against him on the fraud database.
Ref: DRN66960412TSB said they dont  call consumers for clarification. This puts TSB out of step with the 
approach adopted by other banks in similar circumstances I have reviewed. More  
importantly, banks are required to have evidence to justify  a fraud marker and in not seeking 
clarification I dont  think TSB has met the requirements.
I think that TSB should have contacted Mr B as this wouldve given him the opportunity  to 
correct any misleading  information he provided on his online application and for TSB to 
discover if he had made a mistake. Having decided not to call, TSB was left with only Mr Bs 
online application for information.  I agree with the investigator that it was unfair  for TSB to 
put the marker against Mr B in these circumstances and it should now be removed. I am 
aware of other fraud markers  against Mr B that pre-date TSBs and so I havent found  that its 
actions caused  him financial  detriment and I dont require it to pay him compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require TSB 
Bank plc to remove the fraud marker  it put against  Mr B in April 2018. I dont require TSB 
Bank plc to take any other action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6696041