K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  concerns  disputed  payments made 
from his businesss account  from 2013 to 2017,  which HSBC wont  refund to him.
background
Mr G complains about his businesss card payment account, which  he held with HSBC. After  
separating from his wife in 2018, Mr G became aware that from 2013 to 2017 shed been 
transferring money  from the business account to another account that she owned,  as well as 
writing cheques from it.
Mr G says that when he raised this issue in court during divorce  proceedings, the judge 
wouldnt allow it. He also says that his ex-wife is currently subject to a police investigation.
Mr Gs wife dealt with all his family and business finances, which he admits.  He says this is 
the reason he didnt  realise until January 2018 (when he and his wife split), what  had been  
going on as far back as 2013. 
He complained to HSBC,  saying that he hadnt authorised transactions of £78,800  out of his 
business account, by transfers  and cheques, and that as they were all unauthorised HSBC  
shouldnt have allowed  them and should now refund them.
HSBC declined to offer the refund. It said all the transfers were made using telephone 
banking, using Mr Gs secure  PIN number.  It said that as the correct PIN was always  used, 
and nobody other than Mr G should have  known it, he was responsible for those. It also 
believed that Mr G should have realised far earlier than 2018  what was going on with his 
account, and that hed failed to mitigate  his loss.
Mr G didnt agree, and brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters carefully,  and requested further information and 
evidence from both parties. She then concluded  that HSBC was entitled to hold Mr G liable 
for the disputed transactions, and that she couldnt uphold  his complaint. In doing  so, she 
explained the Payment Services Regulations  2019, and what those meant for Mr G.
Mr G remained  unhappy, and asked  for an ombudsmans  review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint. I 
say so because  it wouldnt be fair for me to say HSBC should  be responsible for Mr Gs loss. 
I appreciate my decision will be hugely disappointing  to Mr G. Ive no doubt the impact  of 
these events on his life have been significant,  and that things will have been very difficult. 
But Im afraid I cant right all wrongs.  I need to assess the evidence in this specific  case 
alone, and decide an outcome I thinks fair to both parties. 
Id like to explain why I dont believe its fair to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Gs losses.
Ref: DRN64997712Mr Gs admitted that he allowed his ex-wife  to have full control of his businesss finances, 
and that he didnt ever look at the account in question, as the money was there on a long-
term basis - to finance his pension,  and for the benefit of his children. In allowing this level of 
access over the whole period, I think its fair to conclude that Mr G gave his ex-wife apparent 
authority.
We know that telephone banking was opened for the account, which Mr G said he didnt do, 
and that HSBC should have queried  at the time on hearing a female  voice  make the request. 
But we dont  have  the call in question, due to the passage of time,  and cant  be certain who 
made this request. We cant  rule out that it was Mr G. 
We do know that Mr Gs ex-wife opened  all his business mail, so after telephone  banking 
was established,  shed have the crucial telephone PIN number, which would be all she 
needed going forward to make transfers out of the account. 
As the account  wasnt in Mr Gs ex-wifes name, the terms  and conditions  say that hes 
required to keep his personal information safe and secure. In allowing his ex-wife  unlimited 
access to the account, we know  he failed  to do so. 
We know that the cheques issued from the account  dont bear a signature that looks  like 
Mr Gs. And its been accepted that HSBC should  have noticed  this. However, I agree with 
our Investigator that even if it had, it wouldnt  have  changed any outcome.  I say so because  
the cheques weve seen (from 2013  only) show payments made  for general  family benefit, 
and I think its unlikely  that Mr G would have stopped them. By his own admission, his ex-
wife dealt with all his finances, so these  payments  seem to have been  made  in the ordinary 
course of family life.
Im very sorry that Mr Gs found himself in this situation. But its outside  my role to ensure 
any financial  settlement  hes made  with his ex-wife is fair. My role is purely to assess  if I 
think HSBC treated him fairly in the circumstances of this complaint. And I think it did. I dont 
think it missed  opportunities to prevent  Mr Gs loss, whereas sadly  I think  Mr G himself did. I 
believe he gave his ex-wife apparent  authority for the transactions (PSRs 2009) and that 
even if he didnt, he was negligent in keeping his personal information  secure   thus allowing  
her access  to his account.
For these reasons, I cant uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6499771