K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about a training course  she enrolled on and paid for using a Fixed Sum 
Loan provided by Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited. 
background
Miss A saw an advertisement for a training course  and enrolled in April 2018.  Having  
secured funding for the course through Carnegie, she was supplied with the necessary 
course materials by a representative of the course  provider. She says that she began to read 
the course material and a friend told her it sounded  suspicious. Miss A researched the 
course provider online  and was concerned the course was a scam. 
Miss A contacted Carnegie who recommended she start by contacting the provider. After  
receiving no response from them, she raised  a complaint against Carnegie. They looked into 
her concerns  and said theyd seen no evidence of any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation of the course. They didnt  uphold her complaint. 
As Miss A remained  unhappy, she referred her complaint to us and one of our investigators 
looked into it. He said the paperwork Miss A had been given  about  the course, set out what 
she could expect. There was nothing to suggest the information in the starter  pack was 
inaccurate or that she been misled when  she entered the agreement.  The investigator said 
shed been given 14 days to cancel the agreement and the course if shed been unhappy 
with the course  or simply changed her mind about  it, but that period had passed by the time 
she raised her concerns.  He said hed seen nothing  which led him to believe the course was 
anything other than what Miss A had signed  up for.
Miss A submitted some  further points which the investigator looked into. He remained of the 
opinion that the course  had not been  misrepresented and there had been no breach of 
contract, so didnt  uphold her complaint. Miss A said she was struggling  to make payments 
and had been advised to stop doing  so. Our investigator provided  her with details of charities  
who can help people  who are struggling  financially. Carnegie accepted  the investigators 
opinion, but Miss A didnt. As there  was no agreement,  the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
Ive been in contact with Miss A since  the complaint came to me. She tells me her main 
concern is that she believes  the course to be a scam. Miss A has said she submitted her first 
assignment which wasnt marked before she attempted to cancel the course. Shes also said 
that the course is unaffordable for her and Carnegie have agreed to look into that separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75) says that in some circumstances 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider 
if theres either a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or 
services. Im satisfied the required circumstances  for Miss A to make  a claim are present 
here. 
Ref: DRN60934602My role isnt to decide whether  Miss A has a valid claim  under section 75, as that is for a 
court. Instead, Im required to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In doing so, Ive taken account  of what the law says,  including  section 75. 
What I need to consider is whether there  was a misrepresentation or a breach of contract  by 
the training provider. That is, did they give false information that induced Miss A into 
accepting the contract  that she wouldnt have if shed been given the correct information, or 
have they not fulfilled  part of the contract. 
Miss A enquired about the course  after seeing an advertisement and discussed it with a 
representative of the provider. While I cant say for sure what  was said by the representative 
at the point of sale, I have  seen the paperwork provided and think  it is clear about  what  can 
be expected from the course. It sets out the work required, the support available  and the 
qualifications that will be awarded on completion. It also gave Miss A 14 days to review the 
information to make sure the course  was suitable  for her and explained that she could 
cancel the course  during that period with nothing to pay. 
Having had the opportunity to review the information she received, Miss A went ahead with 
the course. Shes  said she thinks the course is a scam because the provider isnt approved 
by City & Guilds (C&G). Part of the course consists of assessments which must  take place at 
C&G test centres by approved assessors. So its my understanding  that the course provider 
doesnt need to be registered  with C&G  its the assessors at test centres  who do.   
Ive seen nothing  to show that the course  doesnt deliver what  it promises  in terms of content  
or qualifications, or that Miss A was told anything  that induced her into accepting  the contract 
that she would otherwise  have rejected. In other  words,  I dont  think the course  was 
misrepresented to her.
Ive also seen nothing  to suggest theres  been a breach of contract  by the training provider. 
They set out in their literature  what  can be expected from them. While Miss A hasnt 
completed the course, it was noted  by Carnegie that Miss A contacted  her tutor a couple  of 
times and discussed  course content  on at least one occasion. Miss A has told me she 
submitted one assignment but didnt receive  a response, but Carnegie have provided me 
evidence from the college which shows that none were  submitted. I asked Miss A if she 
could provide evidence that the assignment had been submitted but unfortunately, she cant.
Ive seen no evidence  that persuades me that the course provided differs from the 
information provided at the point of sale or that the course provider has failed to do what  it 
promised under the contract.
For the reasons  set out, I dont think I can reasonably  ask Carnegie to cancel the finance 
agreement. Miss A has indicated that she is struggling to meet the contracted  payments, so I 
would take this opportunity to remind Carnegie  of their responsibility  to treat consumers  in 
financial difficulty fairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
Ref: DRN60934603Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6093460