K821x#15Complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
1997. Mr O says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The PPI was designed to help protect Mr Os monthly credit  card repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability  or unemployment.  It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr O disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Os case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was sold many years ago, so its not surprising that there are gaps in the 
information thats still available from the time.  In the absence  of a credit agreement 
showing Mr O wanted PPI, Ive carefully  considered what  hes said about not asking for 
it. But, equally, I dont  have anything to show he didnt opt to have it. Which  means  I 
dont have enough information with which to uphold  the complaint on these grounds.  
I havent seen  anything to suggest RBS recommended the PPI to Mr O. So, it didnt have 
to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr O got the information he 
needed to decide  for himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But that, in itself,  isnt enough  for me to uphold the complaint. Ive gone on to 
consider whether hes lost out as a result of any failings.  Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, 
or limits on, the PPI cover. And while he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his 
employer, the PPI would have paid out in addition to that, providing  him with useful extra 
security at what could have been  a difficult time.  I also cant  see that hed have found  the 
PPI unaffordable.  So, I dont think better  information would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Os lost out because of how RBS sold him 
the PPI.
That said I note  and RBS accepts  that it should have handled  Mr Os complaint better 
than it did. For example, it denied that Mr O had been charged  for PPI despite him providing 
clear evidence to the contrary. Following our involvement, RBS offered Mr O £50 as 
compensation for the poor level of service he received.  Overall,  I think the offers fair and 
that it should now pay him, if it hasnt already done  so.
Ref: DRN63763302My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding this complaint but only in part. I require The Royal  Bank 
of Scotland Plc to pay Mr O £50 as compensation, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020. 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6376330