K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the rejection of his claim by Society of Lloyds (Lloyds).  
background
Mr F holds  a marine policy covering  his boat with Lloyds. His boat hit some rocks and he 
claimed for the damage  caused. After some considerable deliberation Lloyds rejected the 
claim, basically saying Mr F had been  reckless in setting his course  that night and that this 
recklessness invalidated  his cover. Mr F didnt agree so complained  to us. 
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and upheld the complaint. They  did not feel 
that Lloyds had proved recklessness to the extent  necessary to defeat the claim. Lloyds 
didnt agree, so the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding  the complaint as well, for basically the same  reasons as the adjudicator.  
There seems  no dispute over the incident other than the recklessness issue, the boat was 
covered and the circumstances  would be covered by the policy, recklessness aside. The 
relevant clause here is one that excludes  claims caused by wilful misconduct or acts of 
recklessness by the insured or those in control  of the Boat,  including but not limited  to under 
the influence of alcohol and drugs. Later  Lloyds also mentioned another exclusion for your 
failure or that of the captain/skipper  to ensure that the boat is properly manned  when 
underway with appropriate  experience. 
Having looked  at all the submissions in this case, which  run to almost a thousand  pages,  I 
dont think Lloyds have  proved recklessness to the extent necessary, nor do I accept the 
boat was improperly manned. I accept that the rock the boat struck would have been visible  
during the day, but the trip in question was at night, and the policy doesnt say trips under 
darkness arent covered.  Equally I dont doubt that the navigational  aid mentioned 
throughout the file would have indicated an issue with that area, but that is far from proving 
recklessness. Particularly in view of Mr Fs evidence that the navigational course set 
obscured the hazard on the display.  
There is no suggestion that Mr F drove the boat into the hazard on purpose,  or that alcohol  
or drugs were involved, so it is purely  the recklessness  issue I have to decide on. The 
questioned of adequate  manning of the boat while mentioned does not seem to me to be in 
any real question, beyond whether driving  the boat into / over the hazard indicates a lack of 
experience or improper manning.  I think all of this can still be tied to the resolution of the 
recklessness issue. 
The policy does not define recklessness in any detail. Although  I am not strictly bound  to the 
law, as my decisions have to be fair and reasonable I do take note of the law, particularly in 
a case such as this where  the issue at stake will have been tested many times  in the courts.  
Looking at the matter of recklessness the adjudicator here mentioned Sofi v Prudential 
Assurance (1993)  2 Lloyds Rep.559 but I have also has a more general regard to the issue 
as discussed in McGillivray on Insurance Law and other sources. It is clear from this that 
Ref: DRN66658852recklessness can be difficult to prove and mere inattention is not enough to defeat a claim in 
certain circumstances.  
Mr F states  that the navigational aid had obscured the hazard by the plot line of the course 
set going over the hazard  indicator. I have  no reason to doubt this and Lloyds havent 
produced conclusive  evidence that this was not the case. On that basis  I dont think 
recklessness is proven.  I would add that even if I was convinced the hazard showed on the 
aid, which I am not, I still dont think recklessness would be proven. It could still be a case  of 
momentary inadvertence, recklessness requires  more than that. 
my final decision
Society of Lloyds should consider the claim again  under  the other terms of the policy, not 
invoking the recklessness or improperly manned exclusions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6665885