K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc (Santander).
background
Mr G took receipt of a used car in January  2018.  He financed the deal through a conditional 
sale agreement with Santander. At the start of the deal the car was about  three  and a half 
years old and had already  completed 29,225 miles.  Mr G says hes had problems with the 
car since he received  it. A brief history  is as follows:
June 2018 fuel pipe popping off under acceleration;
August 2018 turbo problem requires new vacuum unit. Replaced  by dealership who 
cant rectify  problem  with fuel pipe popping  off. They provide an 
estimate to replace whole injection system  at a cost of about £9,500. 
Mr G asks Santander to allow him to reject  the car. They  refuse and 
refer car to original dealership who dispute main dealers  diagnosis  
and arrange the following repair;
September 2018 repair to injection leak off pipe and seals;
November 2018 car breaks down again and at dealership for several weeks.  High 
pressure fuel pump repaired.  Mr G asks Santander  to allow him to 
reject the car but says they are unresponsive  so he has no option  but 
to accept  repairs.
January 2019  car is returned  to Mr G.
June 2019 Mr G reports intermittent delayed acceleration issue.  No fault found.
July 2019 Mr G reports intermittent delayed acceleration issue.  No fault found.
August 2019 independent  inspection completed. No fault found.
Santander refused  to allow Mr G to reject the car. It thought Mr G had accepted repairs  and 
as they were completed successfully they neednt  take any further action. 
So Mr G referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
thought Santander should have allowed Mr G to reject the car in November 2018; on the 
second occasion that he asked. She wasnt satisfied that he had accepted a repair  and 
found his argument that hed had no choice to be compelling. She wasnt  persuaded 
therefore by the independent inspection as she thought the point of rejection should have 
been much  earlier.
So the investigator thought the best resolution would be for Santander to allow  Mr G to reject 
the car and to terminate his finance  agreement with them. She thought  they should refund 
his advance payment  and refund  three monthly finance instalments  to compensate Mr G for 
the lack of use hed experienced. She was also of the opinion that he should be provided 
with £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Santander didnt  accept the investigators  opinion. They  said Mr G had been able to cover a 
significant mileage  in the car and that in August 2019 hed travelled about 25,000 miles in it. 
They explained that the first time any issues were  reported was just outside of the six month  
period when relevant legislation suggested  it was for him to demonstrate the issues  the car 
experienced were  there from the beginning.  They didnt think  this had been shown to be the 
case. They suggested Mr G could not have  travelled  the distance he had if theres  been  
Ref: DRN69091072faults with the vehicle  from inception and they therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Santander  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Santander,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr G. The car here 
was around three and a half years old and had travelled a little over 29,000  miles.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.  
But Santanders responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
The car was first taken  to the garage in June and the mechanics report  was generated on 25 
June which  is about five and a half months  after inception. Relevant  legislation  says:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Ref: DRN69091073So I think its fair to say that the fuel problem was most probably  there  or more likely 
developing at the point of supply.
This repair in June was clearly not successful as theres still mention of the fault in 
September 2018. 
Relevant legislation does not give a business  one chance to repair each  separate fault that 
may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as 
a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the more  likely it is 
the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality.
So, regardless of whether Mr G did allow Santander  to have the problem repaired by another  
garage, when  the fuel system  failed  again in November 2018 I think it would have been fair 
for Santander to allow Mr G to reject  the vehicle.
Im not persuaded that Mr G did willingly  accept a repair. He repeatedly  asked Santander to 
allow him to reject the car and Ive seen that he tried to contact them, unsuccessfully  through 
November and December  2018. I would agree that, in those circumstances, hed feel 
pressured to proceed  with the repair as it was clear hed been  without a car for some  time.
So, I think there is evidence that this car was faulty  at the point of supply and I dont agree 
that Mr G accepted the subsequent repairs. I think Santander should have allowed him to 
reject it in November 2018.
was the car suitably  durable?
And even  if Im wrong  about  the car being  faulty  at the point of supply I still think Santander 
should allow  a rejection  as I dont think this car has been suitably durable.
In the relatively  short  period of time Mr G has had the car I can see hes experienced 
problems with the fuel pipe; vacuum unit; injection leak off pipe and seal and has needed to 
have the high pressure pump replaced.  Hes been without his car for many  weeks and I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  that on a car of this age or mileage even if they 
were aware Mr G had covered more than average mileage.
I understand that the independent inspector has found no fault with the car now.  Mr G has 
explained that the fault is intermittent. But regardless  of whether a fault exists now I still think  
Santander should allow the cars rejection. They should have done  so in November 2018.
how do we put things right?
Its usual in these  circumstances to ask the business to refund any deposit that was made 
and Im satisfied that Mr Gs advance payment is a deposit. So I think  the business should 
refund that to allow him to put a down payment  on a new vehicle should he wish to do so. 
Hes been deprived  of that money  since it was paid so in recognition of that its fair to tell the 
business to pay some interest on that money. 
I think its clear  Mr G has been without his vehicle for some time. There have  been  repeated  
visits to garages and the car was off the road for a lengthy period at the end of 2018 when 
Mr G doesnt appear to have been  provided with a suitable courtesy car. So I agree with the 
investigators suggestion that Santander  should refund three monthly  finance  instalments.
Ref: DRN69091074And in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  caused  I would  also agree that they 
should pay Mr G £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
cancel the agreement with nothing more  to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr G;
refund  his advance  payment and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund  three monthly finance  instalments  and add 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  they may have  reported to his credit  file in relation to 
this issue;
pay Mr G £100  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909107