K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc mishandled his chargeback  claim about a car.
background
In October  2018 Mr F bought a car for over £20,000 with his Barclays debit card. The dealer  
who sold him the car told him that the cars engine had previously been repaired, in 
November 2017,  by another garage, and the engine was still under warranty  by that garage. 
The car itself was sold with a three  month warranty.
In December the car broke down, and the RAC recovered the car and returned it to Mr Fs 
home (without repairing it). Mr F asked the dealer he had bought  the car from to repair  it, as 
he was still within its three  month  warranty period. But the dealer was concerned that by 
doing the repair itself it would invalidate  the other garages 12-month warranty for the 
engine, so it arranged  for the other  garage to repair the engine. However, due to a backlog  
of work the other garage wasnt  going to be able to deal with his car until the end of January.  
Nevertheless, the dealer collected  the car straight away,  so that it could  deliver the car to the 
other garage  as soon  as they were  ready  to accept it. Meanwhile, the dealer inspected the 
car and found  that two fuel injectors  were blocked.  It replaced them for free. But Mr F asked 
to return the car and be issued with a refund of the purchase price,  rather  than wait until the 
end of January  for the engine to be repaired. That request  was refused.
In January 2019, before the other garage  was ready to repair  the engine,  Mr F raised a 
chargeback for the purchase  of the car, on the ground  that the car was defective. Barclays  
asked the dealer for its side of the story, which the dealer provided on 29 January. In mid-
February Barclays provided the dealers response  to Mr F and asked him for his response.  It 
is not in dispute that Mr F sent his response promptly. But Barclays failed to pass  this on to 
its chargeback department, and so in March  his chargeback claim was declined.
When this came to light, Mr F complained, and Barclays  apologised  and paid him £700.  
However, Mr F said that because the free repairs in January (by the dealer and, 
subsequently, by the other garage) had not been successful, he had been  obliged to pay a 
third garage to repair the car in April and May, which had cost considerably  more  than £700. 
He provided invoices for some repairs to the gear box, which cost over £1,250. He also said 
that the value  of the car had decreased by thousands of pounds,  so hed made  a loss when 
(having lost confidence in the car) he sold it. So he brought this complaint to our Service.
Barclays said that when  it received Mr Fs complaint, it had passed his evidence to its 
chargeback department and asked them if it would have made any difference  to the outcome 
if it had received it at the time. The chargeback departments response had been to say that 
the chargeback  would probably still have failed, because the car had been  repaired for free 
and returned to Mr F. So it argued  that the compensation it had paid already was enough.
Our investigator did not agree.  She said that at the time the chargeback  was dealt with the 
car had not yet been repaired,  as the repair was still scheduled  for a future date. She said an 
intent to repair the car did not satisfy the rules of the chargeback scheme. However,  since  
Mr F had got the car back she thought it wouldnt be fair to recommend that Barclays  refund 
him the entire  cost of the car. So instead she recommended that Barclays  refund  him the 
cost of the repairs hed paid for, which came to £1,253.59.
Ref: DRN62281642Mr F accepted that opinion, but Barclays did not. It maintained that Mr Fs evidence  would 
not have changed the outcome  of the chargeback, and said it had been his choice to get the 
car repaired elsewhere. Barclays asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr F insists that he 
had had no choice  but to pay for the car to be repaired elsewhere, because the dealers 
attempt to have  the car repaired had failed.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will repeat  what  our investigator said about  the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Both parties 
have referred to its provisions, but in a chargeback dispute only the rules of the chargeback 
scheme are relevant. So I have referred to the 13 October 2018 edition of Visas  chargeback  
rules. The relevant chargeback reason here is The merchandise received by the Cardholder  
was damaged or defective.  That means  damaged or defective  at the time the merchandise 
is sold, not damage which develops later.
By the time Mr F sent Barclays his evidence on 11 February, two repairs had been carried 
out. Firstly, the dealer  had replaced  the two blocked  fuel injectors. After that, the other  
garage had repaired  the engine. The fault with the engine turned out to be a bent connecting 
rod, which had been caused by the blocked fuel injectors. It had nothing to do with the 
original repair in 2017.
On receiving that information, Mr F took advice from a member of his family who, he tells us, 
has over 40 years of experience in the motor  industry. In Mr Fs evidence to Barclays,  he 
said this relative had indicated to me that it's very difficult to ascertain whether a fuel injector 
has abruptly failed or has been failing over a longer period.
That evidence makes  it very unlikely that Barclays, or Visa (on an appeal from Barclayss  
decision), could ever have  concluded that the breakdown was caused  by a fault which was 
present when the car was sold to Mr F. For all Barclays knew  (or rather,  would have known if 
it hadnt mislaid Mr Fs evidence),  and indeed for all I know, those injectors might have failed 
abruptly some time after he bought  the car. So I cant say that Mr Fs chargeback  claim 
should have succeeded, at least as far as the injectors and connecting rod are concerned.
In any case, the connecting rod and the injectors were repaired and replaced, respectively, 
by or on behalf  of the dealer. The later repairs which Mr F paid for in April and May were to 
the gearbox, and there is no evidence  that the gearbox was damaged  or defective when the 
car was sold to him. Indeed,  the evidence he sent to Barclays in February does not mention 
the gearbox at all, so Barclayss chargeback department couldnt have had an opportunity to 
take it into account.
It follows that I am unable  to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  findings
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr F did not, for two reasons. Firstly,  he 
explained that he had asked both the dealer and the second garage  for a copy of the engine 
management log, so that he could verify that the original fuel injectors had been  correctly 
Ref: DRN62281643coded to the engine when  the engine was repaired  in 2017, and they had both refused. He 
therefore inferred  that the 2017 repair had not been  correctly carried out, and that both 
garages knew this and were concealing it. Therefore the car had been defective  when  he 
bought it.
Secondly, he provided evidence from the third garage that the gearbox  had been  removed 
and incorrectly replaced shortly before the third garage fixed it. This suggested that the 
second garage had botched the repair  in 2019.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some sympathy for Mr Fs argument that the withholding of the information he 
requested from the first two garages  implies that they knew  the 2017 repair had not been 
carried out properly.  I agree  that it lends support to his case.  But the outcome of this 
complaint turns on what I think would probably  have  happened with Mr Fs chargeback claim 
if it had been processed  properly,  taking  this information into account.  And I dont think that 
this inference would have been  enough  evidence for a chargeback claim to succeed.  It is not 
proof that the injectors were faulty all along;  rather, it is food for speculation that they were.  
In practice, chargebacks  require clear evidence of a fault. So on balance, I think that if 
Barclays had processed Mr Fs chargeback claim properly,  it would  still have rejected it. And 
even if Barclays had upheld it, I doubt that the decision would have survived an appeal  to 
Visa.
I accept that the second garage probably did replace the gearbox  incorrectly, in the course 
of fixing the engine in 2019.  But that means  the leaking gearbox  was not a fault which  was 
present when the car was sold in 2018,  but one which arose  as a result of the botched repair 
of a fault which also may not have been  present when  the car was sold. So it would still have 
been out of the scope of the chargeback claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6228164