K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought a PPI policy at the same time as taking a mortgage in 1999  and it was replaced 
when he bought another PPI policy when taking  a further advance  on the mortgage in 2002.
In each case the PPI was sold at a meeting and covered Mr J for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment  subject to its limitations and exclusions. For a successful claim it offered  to 
pay Mr Js monthly  mortgage payment plus 25%.  This was initially around  £360 for the first 
and £430 for the second policy and cost £19.11 and £26.27 per month  respectively. 
Mr J was employed as a driver and had been there  more than 12 years in 2002.  From  what 
he has told us, he was entitled to no more than statutory pay for redundancy and sickness. 
Hes told us he had accident  and sickness insurance  he took out around  ten years  before he 
took the mortgage. He hasnt documentation  for it any longer and cant  recall if the payment 
wouldve reduced if he were receiving other insurance payments. From what hes said, it 
wouldve paid £1800  for up to six months after hed been off work for three  months. Mr J has 
also told us of a second job he had which he worked for fewer  than 16 hours a week. 
Mr J has told us of an operation he had around six years before  he took the mortgage.  He 
told us he missed three days work at that time.  He hasnt told us of any other health issues.
Halifax has sent us evidence showing Mr J took another further advance  in 2007. Mr Js 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr Js 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr J wouldnt have taken  the 
PPI and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr Js representatives believe there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Halifax should have told Mr J about the 
poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr J and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN65248232The information Mr J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr J disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
The first sale took place in 1999 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and both sales took place before the sale of 
general insurance products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code 
isnt applicable for the 1999  sale and the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr J arranged a further advance on the mortgage in 2007 - after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004. This led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN65248233The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
At the time of the second policy sale there was also, in particular, The General Insurance  
Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  the GISC Code. The 
sale was made during  a period of industry self-regulation  by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the relevant times.  So Im satisfied I should take into account 
these codes and these other publications, and for the second sale the GISC  code,  when 
deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Js case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  for the 1999  sale Im also required to take into account 
what determination the relevant former  scheme  the Office of the Banking Ombudsman in 
this case  might have been  expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note 
that under  the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sales took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the PPI, including drawing  to his 
Ref: DRN65248234attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr J know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr Js 1999 mortgage application form had 
a separate section for the PPI, called Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  Insurance, 
with a box for Mr J to sign if he would like the PPI. Mr J signed this box  separately from 
where he signed to apply  for the mortgage itself. 
To take the PPI he also signed  a separate Mortgage Repayments Insurance  Application, 
separate from the 1999 mortgage  application.  Nothing on either form or anything  else Ive 
seen from the time says Mr J had to sign to say he would like PPI or sign the PPI application 
form if he didnt want the PPI.
To take the PPI with the further advance in 2002, Mr J signed a declaration at the bottom of 
a cost illustration for the policy. This form illustrated  the PPI had a separate  monthly cost and 
the declaration  referred to answers Mr J had given or was to give about his occupation  and 
health as part of his application  for the cover.
Mr J has said he had no interest  in PPI and has said it was just included as part of the 
package with his mortgage. I give Mr Js recollections about this some  weight. But taking 
everything into account, and bearing in mind all Ive said above, I think its more likely Mr J 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice when it sold the PPI. Mr J has told us advice  wasnt given. 
But if Halifax  did give advice, Halifax had to do more. With all this in mind, I think its fair to 
proceed on the basis that Halifax  provided  advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr J with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the PPI was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr J. Halifax had some limited information about Mr Js financial 
circumstances. The 1999 PPI application form established he was in permanent paid 
employment of at least 16 hours a week and didnt know of any impending  unemployment  
and the mortgage and further advance applications  had some limited information  about his 
circumstances. But I dont  think Halifax did enough  to establish Mr J had a need for the PPI 
and ensure the PPI was suitable.  For example,  Ive nothing  to show Halifax  asked Mr J what  
benefits he was entitled to receive,  from his work or elsewhere, for sickness  or redundancy  
or established in 2002 that his employment was still permanent and for more than 16 hours.
Ref: DRN65248235Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr J given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr J, I do think its more likely than not the PPI was ultimately  suitable  for him. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr J met the eligibility criteria for the PPI.
-The monthly cost of the PPI appears  to have been affordable  for Mr J. 
-Mr J had a need  for the PPI. It seems  likely  hed suffer  an immediate fall in income if he 
werent working  whether due to disability or unemployment. His existing cover mightve 
replaced much of his income but only for six months, and only after three months  and not 
for unemployment.
-The PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr J were unable  to do his own or any similar  job, and unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. Also,  
the first policy paid only for absences exceeding 30 days and the second didnt pay for 
the first 30 days of an absence. But the PPI still provided valuable cover  given Mr Js 
circumstances, the loss of income he could suffer were he unable to work for a time due 
to unemployment  or disability  and the impact  this might have on his finances. Also,  the 
PPI protected  mortgage payments for Mr Js home  and I bear in mind the potential 
consequences if Mr J were to have become unable to make  repayments on loans 
secured against  his house.
-What I have doesnt make me think the PPI wouldve affected Mr Js entitlement under 
his existing accident and sickness policy. Ive nothing that makes me think he couldnt 
have claimed on both policies.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr J. The PPI didnt 
exclude claims related  to pre-existing  health issues  so Mr J couldve still claimed if his 
work absence were due to the health issue hed had treated  in the past.  And nothing  
about Mr Js employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult  for him to claim  he 
was in permanent  employment for example and the work  hes told us he did in another 
job wouldnt have stopped him claiming for unemployment if he lost his main  job.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr J sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the PPI to enable him to understand what Halifax was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr J was given  a broad description of what  the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is the PPI would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr J would have taken the PPI without 
any sense of what the PPI was for and of how much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN65248236Also, above  where Mr J signed for the PPI, the mortgage application  called the PPI 
Mortgage Repayments  Insurance against accident, sickness and involuntary  
unemployment  which wouldve given some indication of what  the cover was. Also the cost 
illustration he signed for the second policy gave  an indication of what  its premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr J agreed  to take the PPI. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for him, Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to Mr J. Im not persuaded Halifax gave him all the information he needed about 
the PPI to make an informed decision about  whether to follow  the recommendation and take 
it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Js. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Js representative  considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr J about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr J has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr J? To what extent did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Mr J. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr J suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken the PPI, had Halifax  done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN65248237While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr J, I have found the PPI was ultimately suitable for 
him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that whether or not Mr J has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr J would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the PPI in any event.
Mr J says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should  presume this to be the case given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the PPI, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in return  
and the potential consequences  they will suffer if they do not have insurance,  should  the 
risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr J had some interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Js circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr J knew he would have to pay something for the 
PPI, it doesnt appear Halifax  told him the exact  premium at the point Mr J applied  for the 
PPI. Having said that, for the second  policy he was quoted a premium slightly  higher than 
the actual premium that applied when the policy started  so I dont think knowing the actual 
cost wouldve put him off the cover. Likewise, I think it unlikely Mr J would have taken cover 
originally without an idea of the approximate  cost. Also if, when he started  paying  it, the cost 
had been significantly  at odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible he might  
have raised that with Halifax at the time or reconsidered  his decision. Instead he paid for the 
policy for a number of years and then agreed  to an increased cost for an increase in cover.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr J would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure when he agreed  to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr J would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Js expectations about 
what the PPI would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage  
payment) were significantly  different to what the PPI actually did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not the PPI actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought he had bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental  health  conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
Ref: DRN65248238The PPI limited, and in some situations excluded,  unemployment  cover  if Mr J wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim Mr J be unable to do his own or 
any similar job, and be unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The PPI protected  payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr J pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the PPI wasnt as good  
as he thought and he might  have decided not to proceed. The limitations  on the cover,  when 
coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded some consumers in 
slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  the PPI wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr J was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  he was in permanent  employment 
for example and the PPI didnt exclude  claims for pre-existing  health conditions so in the 
unlikely event Mr J had a work absence related to his past health issue  he couldve still 
claimed for this (subject to his claim meeting  the other policy terms). So, I think  Mr J still had 
some good  reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr J might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr J 
from taking the PPI, Mr J, in his circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mr J had known he could only claim for disability if he were unable  to do his own job, or 
any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into his thinking about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  but, given his circumstances, on balance I 
think he would still have  been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr J that payments  for any claim he made would be limited to 24 
months. This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for. 
But Mr J wouldve received only statutory  work  benefits and his accident  and sickness 
insurance wouldve  lasted  only six months.  In those circumstances, I consider  it likely Mr J 
would have still thought PPI that paid up to 24 monthly  benefit  payments would benefit him 
and help him manage the consequences were he unable  to work in the circumstances the 
PPI covered.  By meeting  his monthly mortgage payment, the PPI benefit would help reduce 
the likelihood of Mr Js home being placed  at risk at what could be a difficult  time if he were  
unemployed or too sick to work. The PPI also allowed for multiple claims to be made.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr J would still have  taken the PPI. The PPI was suitable  for him, sufficiently close  to 
what its likely he thought  he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage 
the consequences if he were made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or 
Ref: DRN65248239sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr J would have taken the 
PPI in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance is for firms, but it is 
a relevant consideration so I take it into account  along with many other things when I decide 
what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering the purpose of the guidance, I dont 
think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr J would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the PPI. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr J wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the PPI had he been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the PPI he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax 
should pay Mr J compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would have 
been in if everything  had happened as it should  have  done. 
Im also aware Mr J thinks Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the PPI in how it described  
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Mr J, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 and 2002 when  providing information about an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr J and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
Ref: DRN652482310circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Im grateful  to Mr J for the further  information and prompt responses he gave to all our 
enquiries to assist our investigation.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6524823