K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt treated them  fairly when 
considering a claim they made on their home  insurance after they had a water leak.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint at the beginning of April. A copy is attached 
and forms part of this complaint.  I said I thought  UKI hadnt treated Mr and Mrs T fairly when 
it rejected their claim for damage caused by a leak in their shower. I said I intended to ask 
UKI to meet  Mr and Mrs Ts claim (subject  to any relevant terms and conditions) by 
reimbursing them for the cost of repairs theyd had to pay for themselves, and some  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T accepted my provisional  decision, and made  an additional point. This was that 
UKI had  by mistake  or deliberately  sent our investigator excerpts  from the wrong set of 
terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs T told our investigator about  this whilst she was looking at 
their complaint. 
Our investigator offered at the time to review the policy Mr and Mrs T had if they sent it to 
her. Mr and Mrs T didnt do that, but I dont  think this stops me reaching a fair conclusion: Im 
asking UKI to meet the claim  in line with the relevant  terms and conditions. For clarity, thats 
the terms and conditions that were  part of Mr and Mrs Ts policy  at the date of the claim.
Mr and Mrs T think UKI should explain why the wrong excerpts  were  sent. UKI hasnt had a 
chance to look at this part of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, as it wasnt in their original complaint 
to UKI. If Mr and Mrs T feel strongly  about this then they could make a new complaint to UKI. 
UKI says it doesnt agree  with my findings.  In summary it says it closed a complaint  about 
how a claim for dry rot had been  handled  before it got any evidence to suggest  there  had 
been an escape of water. It says dry rot by itself isnt an insured event under Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy. It goes on to say that Mr and Mrs T only mentioned  a possible leak later in the 
process, and UKI explained how they could  provide  evidence to show  there was a leak.  
UKI closed  the complaint the next day. That might have been correct  as far as it went, if it 
believed the complaint was about rejecting a claim for dry rot alone, but UKI were on notice 
at this point that there may well have been  a leak  which  meant there had been an insured 
event and possibly  a valid claim for the resulting damage. 
I say that because UKIs own notes from the day before  it closed the complaint say, amongst  
other things,  customer confirmed that the dry rot was caused by a water leak, and that they 
were preparing some paperwork to support this. 
UKI goes  on to say it reviewed the new information  Mr and Mrs T sent in on 21 December  
and spoke to Mrs T the same day. It says that Mrs T explained again that she wasnt 
claiming for the dry rot but the damage  caused to other parts of the building  in accessing  the 
rot, so there was no claim to be made. And it says it had no evidence  to prove a leak.  I dont 
Ref: DRN65433472think thats good enough. UKI had evidence  photos and a description of what had 
happened. I said in my provisional decision I thought they showed there was a leak.  At the 
least the evidence  should have prompted further enquires.  
Instead UKI appears  to have relied  upon the way Mr and Mrs T described their claim in order  
to reject it, and incorrectly dismissed the evidence they provided without investigating 
properly. The principle  of natural justice leads  me to say (as I said in my provisional 
decision) that UKI has a responsibility to deal with its customers,  who are much less 
experienced in insurance matters, fairly. I dont think it did this, on this occasion.
Based on the responses Ive seen I see no reason to amend my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited should now:
Meet Mr and Mrs Ts claim, subject to any other relevant terms and conditions  that 
might apply.
Add simple interest* at 8% a year to any cash settlement it makes from the date 
Mr and Mrs T paid for repairs to the date of refund.
Pay £350 compensation for the way its dealt with the claim. U K Insurance Limited 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr and Mrs T accept  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
simple interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year.
*HMRC may require UKI to deduct  tax from this (these) amount(s) before paying 
Mr and Mrs T. UKI must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much  tax its deducted 
if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if thats appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65433473Copy of provisional  decision 
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt treated them  fairly when 
considering a claim they made on their home  insurance after they had a water leak.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs T noticed  a damp  patch on their kitchen  ceiling. Thinking it 
might have been caused by flexing between their shower tray and the wall of the shower,  
they got a profession to re-seal the shower  tray.
The flexing continued, and they got their contractor to have another look.  He suggested they 
might need  to replace the shower tray. Mr and Mrs T agreed, and the tray was removed  
which caused some  damage  to the shower wall coverings  etc.
The contractor then discovered there was a large  crack on the underside of the tray, which 
was the source  of the problem. Further investigation showed there was a fair amount of 
damage to the floor and joists in both the bathroom and adjoining rooms. The damage 
included some dry rot.
Mr and Mrs T approached UKI in mid November.  UKI said the policy they had didnt provide 
any cover  for dry rot, so it wouldnt look further at their claim. Mr and Mrs T explained they 
thought the rot was only there because of the leak. 
UKI responded to say theyd seen  no clear cause of the damage   in that it couldnt be 
linked to a single insurable event.  
Mr and Mrs T sent in photos  of the damaged shower  tray and said theyd had the repair  work  
done as theyd been without a bathroom.  Mr T said he would reluctantly accept that he and 
Mrs T werent covered  for dry rot, but thought they should be able to claim for any damage 
caused by accessing the damaged  area.
UKI still wouldnt  agree to meet  their claim,  so Mr and Mrs T complained to this service.
Our investigator thought UKI had done  enough. She didnt think the damage was covered by 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy, so UKI need  do no more.
Mr and Mrs T have  asked  that an ombudsman decide this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im currently  intending  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
For a successful claim to be made  under a home  insurance policy Mr and Mrs T need to 
show UKI that whats called an insurable event has occurred. These  events are listed  in 
Ref: DRN65433474Mr and Mrs Ts policy. The most relevant  one in this complaint appears to be the one that 
covers water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating  systems. I think  a shower tray, the 
shower cubicle and the water supply and drainage system for the shower are all part of a 
fixed water  system. UKI hasnt commented  on this point. 
UKIs internal notes  do say theres  been no escape of water. But at the point UKI made that 
statement it knew that the claim was about  damage caused by water  leaking from a cracked 
shower tray. It knew  that because Mr and Mrs T had sent in photos  of the damaged  tray and 
details of the repair work their contractor did to put things right. And theyd explained  how 
they first noticed the damage in a ceiling beneath the bathroom. I think  the evidence  
Mr and Mrs T sent in shows why the water damage occurred. Overall, I currently  think  
theyve shown that an insurable  event  did occur, and the damage is typical  of that caused by 
a leak thats gone unnoticed  over a period of time.
UKI didnt  offer to look at the claim in more depth.  Instead it said  apparently  because  Mr T 
mentioned dry rot when  he first called  that this sort of damage wasnt covered. I dont think  
thats acceptable. While I understand  that UKI wants to limit the level of risk it covers on 
home policies, Im also aware  that UKI is the expert here, not Mr and Mrs T. A simple 
conversation between UKI and Mr T when he first called  might have established enough  
detail for UKI to realise the damage  (including  any rot) might be the result of a leak. And 
repairing that sort of damage, which might  develop unseen by a policy holder, would 
normally be covered  by a policy like Mr and Mrs Ts.
UKI also told Mr and Mrs T that they couldnt claim for any damage caused by their 
contractor when he found the damage   because the damage was dry rot. And UKIs notes 
refer to routine  maintenance  being  carried out at Mr and Mrs Ts home, which  led to the dry 
rot being discovered. Mr and Mrs T say the work  was a direct result of them  noticing a 
problem and investigating it a second time after an initial repair didnt  resolve the issue.  Their  
description is comprehensive and persuasive and I dont see any reason to doubt  what  they 
say.
Ive already said I think there was a water  leak  so it follows  that the damage  caused when 
identifying where  the leak was should be covered under the trace  and access part of 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy.
I think UKI should do more to help Mr and Mrs T. Im intending to order it to meet  their claim, 
subject to any other terms and conditions that might be relevant. 
Of course,  and understandably, Mr and Mrs T had the repairs done. They did that shortly  
after UKI said it wouldnt meet the claim the first time. But there  is a clear photo of the 
damaged tray and a comprehensive list of the repairs undertaken. So I think  UKI has enough 
evidence to consider  and settle the claim fairly.  Its worth noting that the claim,  if paid,  will 
have to be as a cash settlement. UKI would normally  only be obliged to settle a claim this 
way by paying what it would have paid to have the work done.  I think UKI has missed its 
opportunity to limit the payment by not considering  the claim properly when it was first 
registered. That means it will need  to reimburse  Mr and Mrs T for the amount  they paid, and 
add interest (at the statutory rate of 8% per annum) to this amount. Thats  because  
Mr and Mrs T will have been out of pocket because UKI didnt consider the claim properly.
It is possible that UKI has good  reason  to not pay the claim when it considers any other  
relevant terms and conditions contained in Mr and Mrs Ts policy.  
Ref: DRN65433475Im also considering awarding Mr and Mrs T some compensation for the way this claim has 
been handled. Mr T has told this service  about  the stress UKIs  actions  and attitude  has 
caused as well as the inconvenience hes had. I intend to award £350 compensation for this.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this decision  and ask U K Insurance Limited  to:
Meet Mr and Mrs Ts claim, subject to any other relevant terms and conditions  that 
might apply.
Add simple interest* at 8% a year to any cash settlement it makes from the date 
Mr and Mrs T paid for repairs to the date of refund.
Pay £350 compensation for the way its dealt with the claim. U K Insurance Limited 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr and Mrs T accept  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
simple interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year.
*HMRC may require UKI to deduct  tax from this (these) amount(s) before paying 
Mr and Mrs T. UKI must give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much  tax its deducted 
if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if thats appropriate.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6543347