K820x#14complaint
Miss H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Miss H bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a store card.  She applied  for 
the store card and PPI policy in-store. 
At the time,  Miss H was employed and had been  working as an administrator for 1 year.  
Miss H has told us she was entitled  to company  sick pay for at least 12 months on full pay. 
We asked for evidence of such  a generous  benefit  and received  no response.  In the initial  
assessment our adjudicator explained that, based on what we know  of this type and duration 
of her employment at that time, it seems more likely that Miss H would have  received  some 
sick pay but not the level of benefit she initially told us she had. This detail was in the initial  
assessment and, at the time of writing, no party has challenged  this. 
Miss H told us that she didnt have  any other  means  of repaying her store  card should  she 
be unable to work. Miss H thought she would have  received a payment in the event she was 
made redundant. And Miss H told us she had a medical condition eight years before the 
sale. I will say more about this later in the decision.  
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  15% of Miss Hs store  card balance in the event of Miss H 
being unable  to work due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
The policy also provided Price and Purchase  protection. Miss H hasnt complained  about this 
element of the insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision.
At the time,  the policy cost £1.50 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The premium  
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
According to AXAs records  Miss H paid a total of £145.69 for PPI during the policys lifetime.
Miss Hs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Hs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss H wouldnt 
Ref: DRN69218572have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Miss H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss H and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss H received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
Ref: DRN69218573about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So, I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Miss Hs case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN69218574Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Miss H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss H and 
AXA, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss H know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Miss H signed from the time of the sale.  To 
get the cover Miss H had to sign her signature for it. And whilst there was some wording on 
the form that was encouraging Miss H to apply for the PPI, the section in which she has to 
sign for it says, only sign this box if you require Account  Cover . And the signature for the 
PPI was separate to the signature for the credit. So, if Miss H hadnt  wanted the cover,  she 
could have left the section  blank  and just signed to get the credit facility.  
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  and in the 
absence of any detailed  testimony from Miss H to the contrary, taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Miss H knew the policy was optional and she agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN69218575did AXA provide advice?
AXA told us that advice wasnt provided during this sale. Miss H has offered no recollection 
about this issue.  I have seen no evidence of a personalised recommendation made  to Miss 
H in this sale. And the language in the application is of something being  offered. So, 
considering everything  and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Miss H I think  it 
more likely that the cover was sold without advice.   
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss H. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Miss H to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has provided us with Miss Hs application  form which also functioned  as the credit 
agreement  showing that PPI had been selected.  It has also referred us to a copy  of the 
paperwork it says she wouldve received, including the policy terms and conditions 
document  which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to a policy like Miss Hs. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Miss H at the time,  I dont  think  AXA gave Miss H 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a store. I dont know what AXA told Miss H about  the PPI, but I think  
its unlikely she would  have agreed  to take it out without at least having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Miss H would have thought it was free. I can 
see the application form informed Miss H that the relevant premiums  would be debited from 
her account  and that the cost would  be 1.5p for every pound  on your monthly outstanding 
balance.
The information provided would have given Miss H a broad sense of what the policy  
covered. But it was AXAs responsibility to draw to Miss Hs attention  to the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Miss H, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that AXA adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So, I dont think AXA gave  Miss H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN69218576In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Hs. I 
have considered these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Hs representative considers  to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Miss H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Miss H? To what extent did Miss H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss H. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Miss H says she would  not have  taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss H had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss H chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Miss H thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss H has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss H ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So, while  Miss H 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN69218577The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss H knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or for which she consulted a doctor during the 12 months 
before the policy started;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss H 
was not a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss H be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Miss H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss H from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. The policy would  have  provided  cover in addition  to 
Miss Hs sick pay and for longer than Miss Hs employer would have paid her at her full rate 
of pay, most likely. And Miss H told us she had no other means she could rely on if she was 
too ill to work, or if she lost her job. 
Miss H was employed at the time of the sale and so wouldnt have been caught by any 
significant exclusions that pertain to people with a different employment status. And although 
Miss H says she had a medical  condition eight years before the PPI was taken out and the 
policy may not have  provided cover had she needed time off work because of that condition,  
I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put her off agreeing to it. Ill 
explain why I say this. 
Miss H told us about that her condition was a broken  bone  in 1995, some eight years  before 
the sale. But Miss H has not provided any further  detailed testimony  about  the condition  and 
no testimony that the condition affected  her after 1989 at all or cost her a single day off work 
in the intervening years before the sale. So, I dont think her broken arm in 1995 would have 
been uppermost in her mind in 2003 as the most likely reason Miss H would  have needed to 
take time off work in the future. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, on balance, I think its more likely that Miss H had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss H 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
Ref: DRN69218578make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss H from taking out the policy, Miss H, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss H had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Miss Hs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss H would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event. 
Miss Hs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss H would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
Ref: DRN69218579out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude that AXA should pay Miss H compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss H thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Miss H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Hs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss H and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss H in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6921857