K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited misled him about  the maturity  
value of his endowment policy.
background
Mr P had a with-profits endowment policy that was due to mature  on 1 January  2019. On 
5 December 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr P to advise he would receive a sum of £41,752.88.  On 
29 December 2018 Aviva sent Mr P a letter informing him that it had paid £43,302.23  into his 
nominated bank account. However, Aviva sent Mr P another letter  on 14 January 2019  
telling this had been a mistake and hed been overpaid by £7,507.83. It asked Mr P to return 
this sum.
Mr P complained. He said the letter he received was impersonal and didnt  provide  any 
explanation about what had gone wrong.
Aviva explained  that because  of the nature of Mr Ps policy, the value needed to be worked 
out manually  it had placed a record on its system to ensure this happened. However, this 
was removed by mistake, which  meant  the valuations  sent to him after May 2017 had been 
calculated automatically.  This had resulted  in the value being inflated. Aviva  apologised for 
the mistake and paid Mr P £750 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P remained unhappy  and referred his complaint to our service.  Our investigator thought 
Avivas offer was fair in the circumstances. Whilst he acknowledged Mr P had earmarked the 
funds, he didnt think Mr P had taken any steps  to spend or distribute  them. As there wasnt  
any additional loss, he didnt think Aviva needed  to do any more to put things  right.
Mr P said that when he spoke with Avivas complaints investigator hed indicated  the £750  
was solely  for the upset  caused by the impersonal nature of the letter. He added  that he felt 
he was being  penalised for being  truthful about  not having spent any of the funds before the 
mistake was rectified. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been  passed to 
me to make a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr P accepts the sum due to him on maturity  was £35,794.40 and not 
£43,302.23. So, the only issue for me to decide is whether the compensation paid to Mr P is 
fair and reasonable.
Having considered the points raised by Mr P and Aviva,  I think  the £750 offered by Aviva  in 
respect of the mistake  is fair. So, I wont be asking it to pay any extra compensation. I realise  
this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Id like to explain why.
Mr P was led to believe and did in fact receive a substantial amount more than he was 
actually due on maturity  of his endowment policy. I dont doubt  that being  asked to return 
£7,507.83, without explanation or apology, wouldve caused him distress. I also think he 
clearly experienced  a loss of expectation and wouldve most likely had to rethink  plans hed 
made for the money he received.
Ref: DRN65228212Aviva paid Mr P £750 for this and overall  I think its fair. Although Mr P was clearly very 
disappointed and he was unhappy with the manner in which he was informed about the 
error, £750 is a substantial amount  which I think recognises the seriousness  of the error and 
impact on Mr P. Im also mindful  that Aviva  identified the mistake relatively quickly,  which 
meant the matter was put right before  Mr P had started to use the funds.
Mr P says that Aviva led him to believe the £750  offered  was only in respect  of the letter, 
rather than the loss of expectation. But regardless of what  Mr P was led to believe, I think  
the sum was intended to compensate him for the whole experience. And as Ive said above, 
I think the amount  paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr P feels  hes being penalised for being  honest  about not having spent or distributed the 
funds before Aviva informed him of the error. He believes the implication is that if hed been  
dishonest about  this he wouldve received a higher amount. However, the issue  in question 
here is about whether Mr P experienced a financial loss as a result  of Avivas mistake. For 
example, if Mr P had invested any of the extra funds he wouldve likely encountered a 
financial penalty if hed had to cancel the investment due to the difference  in the sums 
available to him to invest. In that case, it would be reasonable to attribute this loss to Aviva 
and recommend Mr P should be compensated for it. Fortunately, Mr P hadnt yet made any 
arrangements like this, so I dont think there are any grounds for compensating him for 
actual financial loss. Furthermore, Mr P wouldve had to provide evidence  of this loss, so he 
wouldnt have gained  anything  by being  dishonest.
my final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has made  an offer to pay Mr P £750. I conclude  that such 
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
As it has already paid Mr P this compensation, my decision is that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited doesnt need to do anymore to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6522821