K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that problems with TSB Bank  plcs IT upgrade meant that he was unable  to 
access his business  accounts. Ms S, who works with Mr G, has also been dealing  with this 
complaint.
background
Mr G says he was unable  to access his business account with TSB in late April 2018, when 
it carried out an IT system  upgrade.  He says he was unable to pay suppliers, confirm  receipt  
of payments from clients or place new orders. The day to day running of his business was 
severely interrupted.  He says he had to pay staff who were  completely idle for three days. 
He organised funds  to pay suppliers and then had to pay staff overtime so that orders could 
be completed on time.
Mr G said problems continued. A direct debit  was wrongly returned  unpaid in May.  He asked 
for a replacement debit  card that didnt arrive for over three months. His online account 
sometimes shows incorrect or unreadable  information. Hes unable  to download transaction 
information for his VAT return except in small  amounts. And hes not certain  his online 
banking is secure  as when he logs in hes only asked for digits  from the first half of his 
password.
Our adjudicator said TSB should pay compensation  of £750 to Mr G for the costs of staff 
overtime, inconvenience and damage to his business reputation. 
On behalf of Mr G, Ms S said £750  didnt cover all of his financial  loss, but Mr G accepted 
the adjudicators  recommendations.  TSB didnt agree  and so the complaint  was passed to 
me. 
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. I sent a provisional  decision to 
the parties to explain why, and give them an opportunity to comment.  In summary, I said 
Mr G had experienced some problems  with his TSB account, but I didnt think hed suffered 
a financial loss as a result. I said compensation of £250 was fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience. 
TSB agreed.  Mr G didnt  agree. He said he hadnt been asked to provide evidence  of 
damage to his business reputation, and in any case wasnt asking for this. He said the £250 
compensation didnt take account of overtime  costs, which he cant  now evidence  due to the 
time passed. He said it wasnt fair that he wasnt compensated for the time Ms S spent 
exporting data just because she hadnt  charged him for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
TSB told its customers  it would be carrying out a planned IT upgrade  on 21 and 22 April 
2018. It said some banking services wouldnt be available. However, there  were  problems  
with the upgrade and, like many of TSBs customers, Mr G continued to have problems with 
Ref: DRN65590542his accounts.  He says he and Ms S were  unable to fully access the business  accounts until 
25 April 2018. 
Ms S has explained that they use two business accounts. One receives payments from 
customers. They dont  have debit cards for this account as they were  previously  victims of 
fraud using  cloned  cards.  They have a second  account for which  they do have debit  cards. 
They transfer money from the first account to the second as needed  to fund payments to 
suppliers. During  TSBs IT problems  they were able to make payments using their debit 
cards and withdraw cash. But without online access they couldnt  transfer  funds into the 
account they use for payments to suppliers until 25 April 2018. The bank statements 
provided support  this.
TSB confirmed some  of the other problems Mr G and Ms S experienced. There was a 
problem exporting  account transactions to excel except  in small batches. 
However, TSB says its records dont  support what Mr G and Ms S have said about the 
number of calls and visits to branch they made, although it does accept they visited  
branches to withdraw  cash. It said some of the issues  theyve complained about were  due to 
them not ensuring there was enough  money in the account to cover direct debits or not 
having a phone available with the authentication app. TSB cant  access  the phone record  
when it says its likely Mr G asked for a replacement debit card.
I think Mr G and Ms S experienced problems using some banking  services in late April and 
when exporting  transactions after this. I think its likely there was a delay  in Mr G receiving a 
replacement debit card. So I have to consider what effect this had on Mr G and his business 
and what compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Mr G and Ms S say they took steps to mitigate any losses. They made  other arrangements  
to pay suppliers. They asked staff to work  overtime at the end of the week, once supplies 
had been delivered, so that orders were completed. They  say no orders were left unfulfilled.  
Ms S provided emails with suppliers and customers which referred  to the problems  with the 
TSB account. But the emails dont suggest this damaged their relationship. I havent seen 
evidence of any damage to the businesss reputation with its customers  or suppliers or that 
this caused financial  loss  and Mr G has confirmed that he isnt asking for compensation for 
this.
Despite difficulties exporting transactions, Ms S made the appropriate filings  with HMRC.  
Theres no suggestion Mr Gs new debit card was misused. And while  he has concerns 
about his password theres nothing to suggest  his account has been compromised.
Ms S says staff worked overtime to complete orders. Unfortunately,  timesheets  arent  
available. Ms S provided internal  accounting  information which  shows two employees 
worked more hours in May than in April 2018  presumably Ms S is saying they were paid in 
May for overtime worked  in late April. However,  I dont think  there is clear evidence of the 
loss claimed. Mr G says we should  have asked for evidence sooner, as some of it has been 
destroyed. I appreciate that time has passed  since mid 2018.  But I think its reasonable to 
ask that evidence is provided to support the losses Mr G claims compensation for. Ive 
looked carefully at what has been  provided, and I still dont think it evidences  the losses 
claimed.
From the business bank  statements, it appears employee A was first paid in April 2018. 
While he was paid for more hours in May than April, this could be because he was taken on 
Ref: DRN65590543part way through April.  And the amount  he was paid in June and July is in line with the 
amount he was paid in May 2018.  This doesnt support him working extra time in late 
April/May, as compared to the following months. Employee B also worked more  hours in 
May than in April.  But he received sick pay in April,  which could account for this. And the 
bank statements show he received wages final  in early July and no payments after this, so 
I cant see what a normal month  would look like.
I dont think I can fairly  find, based on the available evidence, that Mr G suffered  a financial 
loss due to problems with his account  with TSB. I have no doubt  though  that Mr G and his 
business partner  were caused inconvenience. They couldnt use the business accounts  as 
usual and had to find other, less convenient  ways to fund payments and complete VAT 
returns. They had to contact TSB about the replacement card. I think  Mr G will have been  
worried about his business when he couldnt fully access the business accounts, especially 
as he wouldnt have  known how long the problems would continue.  I think its right that TSB 
pays compensation for this. Ive also taken into account that the disruption was for a short 
period and Mr G was able to find ways around  the difficulties caused. 
Ive re-considered this in the light of Mr Gs response to my provisional  decision. I appreciate  
it seems unfair that Ms S hasnt been compensated for her time  which  she provided 
without charge  to sort matters out. But Mr G is the complainant  here. I still think 
compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay £250 
compensation to Mr G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  by 29 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6559054