K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that MEM Consumer Finance Limited (trading as PaydayUK) lent him 
money that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr E took out four loans  with PaydayUK.  Due to the age of some  of the loans, Mr E agreed  
that this service wouldnt consider loans one to three.
Mr E took out loan four in December 2014  for £430.  He was due to repay  around  £560 in 
one payment a month later.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint be upheld.  She thought that 
PaydayUK shouldve  carried out more checks than it did. But even if PaydayUK had asked 
about Mr Es outgoings as well as his income, the adjudicator thought that loan four wouldve 
still appeared affordable for Mr E.
Mr E doesnt  agree  with the recommendation.  He explains that following an accident three 
years ago Mr E wasnt able to work and was on large  doses of pain medication. This 
impaired his mental health  and led him to taking on loans  that he doesnt recall applying  for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.  
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as the adjudicator.
PaydayUK was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr E 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr E was borrowing, the amount of the 
repayments, the length of the agreement and what it knew about him. But there  was no set 
list of checks PaydayUK  had to do.
If I decide that checks werent always adequate,  this wont  be enough for me to uphold the 
complaint. I would also need to decide  that proportionate checks wouldve shown PaydayUK 
that Mr E might struggle to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
It had been more than six years  between Mr E taking out loan three and asking for loan four. 
Although it doesnt  look as though  Mr E repaid  loan three, I consider it was fair to treat loan 
four as new lending.  
Mr E told PaydayUK that his monthly  salary  was £2,300. As PaydayUK expected him to 
repay around £564 in one payment, I think a proportionate check shouldve also involved 
asking Mr E about his monthly expenses, including living costs and regular credit 
commitments. 
PaydayUK hasnt  given us evidence that it asked about Mr Es outgoings  so I need to 
consider what information  its likely that he wouldve given at the time.  
Ref: DRN62993252Mr Es representative sent us details of Mr Es monthly  outgoings that amounted to about 
£750. The representative subsequently told us that it had sent these details by mistake but 
hasnt asked us to consider any other  figures.  
I only have bank statements for one of Mr Es bank accounts. Although  I can see various 
cash transfers and withdrawals, I dont know what these relate  to. I also cant  see any 
evidence of salary or benefit payments around the time of loan four.
The adjudicator asked Mr Es representative  to send us a full breakdown of Mr Es 
expenditure but we havent  received this. Without  the further evidence that weve asked for, I 
cant say that loan four wouldve appeared unaffordable with better checks.
Im very sorry to hear about  the health  difficulties  that Mr E has encountered.  However  Mr E 
says that his accident took place about  three  years  ago which  would take us to late 2015. 
This was a year after Mr E took out loan four so it doesnt change  my decision.  
Even if Mr Es accident had happened before he asked for loan four, that in itself wouldnt 
have led me to uphold his complaint  as I dont have any evidence  to suggest  that Mr E made 
PaydayUK aware of his health issues at the time.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6299325