K821x#15summary of the complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  relates to nine short term (often referred to as payday) loans given to her 
by CashEuroNet  UK LLC (CEU) between November 2009  and July 2012.
Mrs W says that she took out the first loan with the hope that she would be able to pay it 
back at the end of the month;  but from there her financial situation began  to spiral out of 
control and she was left with no choice but to take out more  loans  for progressively higher 
amounts to pay the loan interest  and cover her living expenses.
Mrs W complained  that all of these nine loans were  unaffordable, and that CEU was acting 
irresponsibly when it approved them.
background to the complaint and this final decision
After Mrs W brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service she decided to 
accept an offer of redress from CEU in full and final settlement of her concerns about loans 
four to nine. So those  loans are no longer in dispute  and do not form part of this decision.
CEU didnt  offer redress for the first three loans. Instead, it argued that Mrs Ws complaint 
about those loans had been made  too late  which meant that this service couldnt consider  
whether anything had gone  wrong  when the loans were lent.
After considering all of the evidence and arguments relating to jurisdiction in this case  
including the various detailed submissions  from CEU referring to, amongst other things, the 
DISP rules applying  to complaints referred  to this service and the statutory limitation period 
set out in the Limitation  Act 1980  (including case law relevant to that Act)  I issued my 
jurisdiction decision on this time limit issue.
In that decision  I explained that I was satisfied Mrs Ws complaint about her first three  loans 
had been made in time, so all three loans could be considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on their merits.
One of our adjudicators then carried out that merits investigation and, having done so, 
explained to the parties  that he thought CEU had been wrong to give Mrs W each of these 
loans.
To put things right, he recommended  that CEU:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Mrs W on these loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
remove any negative information  about these loans from Mrs Ws credit file if any 
record is still recorded.
CEU initially disagreed  with this (whilst also pointing out that it still thought these three loans 
fell outside of our jurisdiction), before  later advising that it was prepared to settle  the case. 
CEUs offer of redress  was broadly in line with the adjudicators  recommendation, with the 
exception of the 8% simple interest. CEU told us that it was only prepared to pay Mrs W 
interest up until 5 May 2017  this being  the date this complaint was referred to an 
Ref: DRN66765362ombudsman for a decision on jurisdiction after CEU had not accepted  the adjudicators 
assessment that we were able to consider Mrs Ws complaint about these three loans.
CEU feels that there have been  unwarranted delays on the part of this service  in deciding  
our jurisdiction in this case  so it would be unjust to require it to pay 8% simple interest 
beyond when the case was referred  to an ombudsman for a decision  on jurisdiction.
Mrs W was prepared to accept what CEU had offered so far as an interim  payment, but she 
wanted us to consider the outstanding interest  that had been  recommended by our 
adjudicator.
So our adjudicator explained  this to CEU, clarifying  with reference to two redress  
publications on our website  that our awards  for 8% simple  interest  are to compensate the 
consumer (Mrs W) for the period when  they were  out of pocket. So the time its taken to 
resolve this complaint doesnt alter the basis for awarding 8% simple interest up to the date 
of settling Mrs Ws complaint.
Im pleased to say that CEU agreed to pay the interim settlement to Mrs W. It says this was 
paid to her on 7 January 2019, and I see that shes confirmed receipt. So this money is no 
longer due.
But CEU has asked  that the dispute about it paying  8% interest  beyond  5 May 2017  be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained above, our adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ws complaint about these 
three loans  should  be upheld. I agree  I uphold this complaint.
The redress  our adjudicator proposed  which is in line with the typical award I would 
recommend in cases where  loans should not have been given to a consumer  was broadly 
agreed with by CEU; but it disputes that it should continue  to pay 8% simple interest beyond 
5 May 2017  when it says it was told the jurisdiction issue it raised had been referred to an 
ombudsman.
So thats what remains for me to decide  here  whether  or not CEU  should fairly pay 8% 
simple interest on the interest and fees Mrs W paid on these three loans from 6 May 2017  up 
until 7 January 2019 when this money was refunded to her.
Before I consider what fair redress is in this case though, I should just briefly add that  for 
the reasons set out in my jurisdiction decision  I remain satisfied that Mrs Ws complaint 
about these three loans  was made  in time and so falls within my jurisdiction to consider. I 
havent seen any evidence arising since I issued  my jurisdiction decision that causes me to 
reconsider that finding.
Ref: DRN66765363making an interest award
In order for me to fairly decide the period over which  CEU should pay interest,  its important 
to first understand  when and why awards like these are made to consumers.
Where a complaint  is determined in favour  of a complainant, an ombudsman  has the power  
 in accordance  with DISP 3.7.1R of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook  to make a 
determination including one or more  of the following:
(1)a money award  against the respondent; or
(2)an interest award against the respondent; or
(3)a costs award against the respondent; or
(4)a direction to the respondent.
Interest awards  are most typically  made  to reflect  the fact that a consumer has been wrongly 
deprived by the business of a sum of money.  It would usually be appropriate in these 
circumstances to direct the business  to add interest  from the date the consumer should have 
had the money  until the date the money is actually paid  this compensates the consumer 
for the period that theyve been out of pocket.
This is a long-standing and well documented approach taken by this service when awarding 
redress. Indeed,  I note our adjudicator referred  CEU  to two publications  on the Financial  
Ombudsman Service website1 setting  this out.
how does this affect Mrs Ws complaint?
Taking the above into account, Ive considered what represents fair redress  in the individual 
circumstances of this particular complaint.
I agree  that Mrs Ws complaint should  be upheld on its merits. This means Im satisfied  she 
should not have been given these three loans, which in turn means that the payments she 
made to CEU in relation  to the loans  (the interest and charges) should never have 
happened.
The effect of this is that CEU has wrongly held Mrs Ws money (which of course  means she 
hasnt been able to use the money  herself) since she paid it to CEU almost  ten years  ago.
I understand CEU has concerns  about the time this complaint  has taken to resolve. But 
regardless of why this complaint  has taken  this long to resolve, and whose fault that may or 
may not be (although, to be clear,  it certainly isnt Mrs Ws fault),  it remains  the case that 
CEU has wrongly been in possession of Mrs Ws money for all this time.
So its fair, in my view,  that she should now be compensated by CEU paying  her interest for 
the entire period when she was without  this money   in other words, from when she paid 
CEU up until 7 January  2019 when the money  was recently refunded to her.
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/faq/businesses/answers/redress_a4.html
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/ombudsman-news/136/136-awarding-
interest.html
Ref: DRN66765364I think its worth next just clarifying  the rate of interest to be paid by CEU and why thats  fair.
Our adjudicator recommended  that CEU  pay 8% simple  interest.
Awarding 8% is not intended to represent  interest in the same  way that a bank account pays 
interest. Rather, its a broadly fair yardstick for compensating  consumers  for a wide range  of 
possible losses and lost opportunities that may have incurred. Its also the rate that the 
courts often use in similar situations  to this. So I think its a good starting  position  for 
compensating consumers  like Mrs W  for being  deprived of their money.
There may be some circumstances where a consumers losses  can be more clearly  defined.  
So 8% wouldnt always be the appropriate  rate. Bearing in mind that Mrs W had to continue  
borrowing from CEU even  after taking these three loans (and at a rate far in excess  of 8%) 
its certainly arguable  whether 8% is the right amount to compensate her for being  without  
this money.
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  in this case  to clearly identify what would have  
happened to Mrs Ws money  had she not paid CEU.  So Im satisfied that 8% simple is a fair 
and reasonable rate of interest for CEU  to pay in this case.
And for the reasons Ive explained above it should  pay that rate for the whole period 
(i.e. beyond  the date its already paid interest) up until it refunded  Mrs Ws money.
putting things  right  what CashEuroNet UK LLC now needs to do
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on Mrs Ws interest and charges on these three  
loans for the outstanding period from 6 May 2017 up until 7 January 2019  when 
compensation was previously paid;
for the avoidance  of doubt,  if it hasnt  already  done so it should also remove  any 
negative information  about these loans  from Mrs Ws credit file if any record  is still 
recorded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CashEuroNet UK LLC to take off tax from this interest.          
CashEuroNet UK LLC must  give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Finally, if CEU still has concerns about  the service we have provided in this case it should 
raise these as a separate matter. But for the reasons Ive explained  above,  its concerns 
dont affect whats  fair redress for it to pay Mrs W in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  pay redress as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN66765365Kevin Wright
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6676536