K821x#15complaint
Miss W says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (PPC) irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about two home credit loans and Ive put a few details  about  them  below:
loan date takenamount borrowed
term amount due date repaid
1 29 September 2014 £300 32 weeks £15 per week 4 May 2015
2 15 June 2015 £600 32 weeks £30 per week in arrears
Our adjudicator didnt  think that PPC needed to put things right for Miss W in relation to 
either of these loans.  He didnt think Miss W had been treated unfairly. Miss W disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
The complaint remained unresolved and was been passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 25 July 2019 and invited both parties  to respond by 8 August 2019. 
PPC and Miss W have said they have  nothing further to add. So I am issuing my Final 
Decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
As no additional evidence or arguments  have  been  put forward  then I see no reason to alter 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision on 25 July 2019.
So in the circumstances I uphold Miss Ws complaint  in relation to the second home credit 
loan which  is the subject of this complaint.
To put things right for Miss W I direct PPC to:
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple* a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about that loan from Miss Ws credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PPC to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint in part and direct that Provident 
Personal Credit Limited do as I have said above. 
Ref: DRN60662832Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60662833the main part of my provisional decision  dated 25 July 2019
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Our website sets out what we typically think  about  deciding whether 
a lenders checks were  proportionate - including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice. 
PPC needed to take reasonable  steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this means  
that it should  have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether  Miss W could repay  her 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages  of a lending 
relationship. 
But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example,  the consumers income  was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer  the lending  relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it 
becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it hasnt  continued to provide these loans to a customer irresponsibly. 
PPC says it agreed to Miss Ws application  after she provided details of her monthly income and 
outgoings. 
For the first loan, on balance, I think that PPC carried out the checks proportionate to that loan and 
I am not planning  to uphold the complaint in relation to the first loan. 
As for the second loan then by this time PPC had been lending to Miss W for about eight months.  It 
carried out a credit  check at the time of loan two which revealed there werent any features to put it on 
alert. PPC says there wasnt anything to suggest  Miss W wouldnt be able to make the repayment  she 
was committing  to. And in those circumstances  PPC says that it wasnt irresponsible to lend. 
However I take a different view in relation to this loan and Ill explain  why. 
In the final response letter PPC wrote to Miss W in January 2018 in relation to this complaint, it makes 
specific reference to the fact that it would  have  reviewed  any previous  credit agreements  Miss W had 
held with it when considering  her latest application. 
I am aware  both from Miss W and from PPC that she had taken  another loan with the payday loan 
side of the PPC business which  is often referred to as Satsuma. Miss W had a loan with Satsuma 
from 28 September 2014 until 14 March  2015. So this was running alongside the first home  credit 
loan she had with PPC.  We have been sent details  of that Satsuma loan as well and from the account 
notes I can see that  she was struggling  to repay, missed a couple  of repayments and her partner who 
was in the country  at the time telephoned  PPC to make payments using his card.  
This dovetails with the information I have  seen in relation  to the first home credit loan  she missed 
payments, and was struggling to repay it. I think its very reasonable to take from this information that 
PPC would  have been aware of these elements of Miss Ws history when she approached  PPC for 
the June 2015 new home credit loan. 
Ref: DRN60662834In addition, when it came to the time that Miss W applied  for her second home credit loan in 
June 2015, I have seen  from PPC account notes that a Satsuma loan was declined for her on 
22 April 2015. And I can see that this new home credit loan was for double the previous one and 
translated into double the payments at about £30 a week. As the combined repayment  amounts each 
week for the first Satsuma loan and the first home credit loan came to about  £34 a week, and as its 
clear from PPCs own account notes for both loans  that she had struggled  to repay  them,  then my 
view is that its likely  she would  have  struggled with this loan as well. 
From Miss Ws personal credit file I can see that her financial  situation altered  after she had taken the 
first home credit loan and these alterations included:
a loan for £2,000 repayable at £172 a month in February 2015;
a large payday loan with a different lender for £1,000 in April 2015;
a new hire purchase loan for over £11,000  repayable at £310 a month in April 2015;
a loan for about £1,440 repayable at £120 a month in April 2015.
All of these repayments were significant enough  in my view that appropriate checks  would  have 
revealed that Miss Ws monthly  outgoings  had increased a great deal since September 2014 and in 
my view ought to have  been  part of the background against which the June 2015  home  credit lending 
decision was taken. 
So I am of the view that it was not a responsible approach to provide a second home credit loan to 
Miss W in June 2015.
So in the circumstances I plan to uphold Miss Ws complaint in relation to the second home  credit 
loan which is the subject of this complaint.
Ref: DRN6066283