K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that Santander  UK Plc hasnt  fairly compensated him for its error in 
calculating his mortgage repayments.
background
In December 2018, Santander  wrote  to Mr K to explain that the mortgage he had recently 
finished repaying hadnt been calculated correctly. 
The letter explained that had Santander  done  everything correctly Mr K wouldve finished 
paying off his mortgage in 2015. Santanders  error  was that it had set Mr Ks mortgage 
payments based  on a lower balance than was actually owed. The result of this was that it 
took him longer to repay  his mortgage.  
Santander made Mr K an offer to put things right, it refunded  all the payments he had made 
since the mortgage should have  ended which came to £266.01. It also paid Mr K 8% interest  
simple on these payments  which came  to £7.10.  Mr K accepted this and the payment was 
made. Mr K then complained about  the compensation paid, he doesnt  believe enough  was 
offered. 
Our investigator spoke  to Santander and it explained that had things gone correctly each 
repayment amount  wouldve been  higher  with the mortgage being paid off more quickly.  But 
Mr K hadnt  paid any more than he shouldve done overall, it was just the amount had been 
spread out over a much longer period. But Santander said it had refunded  the payments in 
any event.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, she said Santander  had fairly compensated 
Mr K. Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Santander  needs to do anything more  to compensate Mr K.
When a business  has made an error we aim to put the customer  back into the position, as 
close as possible,  that they wouldve been had the error not occurred. 
Santanders error was that its system  hadnt  correctly calculated Mr Ks mortgage balance,  
meaning repayment was requested at a lower amount, leaving a small amount of 
outstanding fees and charges on the mortgage  when it shouldve  redeemed in 2015.  And 
repayments continued to be taken at low amount until this balance  was paid off in 2018.
Santander has explained Mr K hasnt overpaid on the mortgage.  Had things gone to plan,  
Mr K wouldve  still paid the same amount just in larger repayments and the mortgage 
wouldve redeemed much earlier. Instead  it took lots of smaller repayments over much 
longer period. But either way the same amount wouldve been repaid.
In this situation we would expect Santander to put things right by making  sure Mr K wasnt  
worse off because of its error. It appears that Mr K actually hasnt paid any more than he 
shouldve done   so in terms of the amount hes had to repay  he is no worse  off because  of 
Ref: DRN66389302Santanders error. But Santander  chose  to refund Mr K all the payments he made after the 
mortgage wouldve  finished anyway. 
So in actual  fact Mr K has paid less for his mortgage  than he wouldve done had Santander 
not made a mistake. Santander also paid Mr K a small amount of interest at 8% to cover him 
for the payments he made after 2015. This is the rate we would recommend for loss of use 
of money.
So Mr K has been  compensated approximately £260 for Santanders mistake. As he 
wouldve had to make  the repayments in any event had the error not occurred. Whilst in 
Santanders letters to Mr K it referred to the interest as compensation and the repayments as 
a refund, in reality  the whole redress was compensation for its mistake. I dont think  
Santanders responses made this particularly clear to Mr K from the outset, so perhaps  this 
is why he thinks he is due more  compensation. But for the reasons explained,  I think  
Santander has more  than covered Mr K for any financial detriment he has suffered. So I 
cant say it needs  to pay Mr K anymore  for its error.
In some situations we will also make an award for the trouble and upset caused by a 
businesss error. To do this we look to see what impact the error has had on a person. In this 
situation Mr K was unaware  that a mistake  had occurred until Santander wrote  to him. And 
on first contact  it made an offer to put things right, all Mr K had to do was accept  this offer.  
So I cant see that Santanders error  had any real impact on Mr K. As discussed above, Mr K 
didnt actually pay anymore for his mortgage than he needed to  and Mr K hasnt told us of 
any problems or inconvenience that Santanders  error caused him. So I see no grounds for 
an award for trouble and upset  in this situation.
So it follows  that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and Santander doesnt need  to do 
anything more to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6638930