K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in November 2003. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Bank of Scotland has provided  call notes that show  it was likely that PPI was 
discussed on the phone at the time of the sale. And Mr H has a signed a document 
which states that he has asked for the PPI.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. Bank of Scotland has provided  evidence that Mr H was taking out the loan for 
debt consolidation, and Mr H has told us that he had very little in terms of sickness  pay 
entitlement from his employer or other means  to pay off his loan if he got into financial 
difficulties. The PPI wouldve covered his loan repayments for up to 12 months if he 
was unable to work.  He wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover. So I think the PPI was suitable  for him and he had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said but these points dont change my decision.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN60873872The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6087387