K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the cash settlement  provided  by Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
(RSA) following a claim on his home insurance. Mr S complains the settlement is too low 
and doesnt cover the cost of the repairs required.
background
Mr S is represented by his brother.  For ease, Ill refer to his brothers comments  as being 
those of Mr S.  
Mr S has a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with RSA.  In April 2017,  Mr S house  was 
burgled and vandalised. Mr S made  a claim on his insurance policy  for items that were  
stolen, and for the damage caused to his property. The contents  element has been resolved  
but Mr S disputes the buildings part of his claim.
RSA has accepted liability and paid a cash settlement for the damage caused to Mr S 
property. This includes costs for repairing a shed door, making  good  a stud wall, and 
replacing two garden fence panels. 
Following a surveyors inspection, RSA provided the following amounts to settle the claim:
£200 to replace two garden  fence  panels;
£682.65 to repair the door and stud wall.
Mr S obtained his own quotes  and provided the following to RSA:
£7,500 to replace the entire fence.
£2,450 to build and plaster a new stud wall.
RSA has said its only contributed the cost of replacing two fence  panels  as its not satisfied 
the condition of the fence  was entirely attributable  to the break-in. RSA has said its more  
likely that only two fence  panels were further damaged as a result  of the burglary. It said the 
fence showed  signs of wear and tear and that Mr S quotes included  betterment - meaning 
he wouldve been  in put in a better  position  than he was in prior to the burglary - which  is 
excluded under the policy. 
Mr S has said the cash settlement is too low to allow for the necessary works to be 
completed. He initially  disputed  the fence showed  signs of wear and tear and said it was 
covered under the policy and so should be entirely replaced.
Our investigator said the insurance policy is designed to put Mr S back  in the position he 
was in prior to the burglary  not to provide betterment. And she explained there  are certain  
exclusions where cover wouldnt be provided, such as wear and tear. She was satisfied  that 
RSA had acted  reasonably by consulting experts in order to assess the damage and cost to 
repair it, and so she considered the cash settlement to be fair.
Following the investigators view,  Mr S accepted the fence panels  had deteriorated prior to 
the burglary. But he said the concrete post  which holds  the fence panels in place  showed 
no signs of wear and tear and so should  be replaced. He said it was broken when the 
Ref: DRN69996212burglars pulled the fence down. Mr S has provided photographs of the post and these have 
been shared with RSA. 
RSA maintained that the post had been  damaged prior to the burglary and that overgrown 
shrubs caused it to be damaged. 
Our investigator considered the further  evidence but her opinion remained the same. 
Because Mr S disagrees with her view, the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and RSA have differing views as to the amount of work needed to put Mr S back in the 
position he was in prior to the burglary.  Mr S thinks greater work is required and so doesnt  
believe RSAs cash settlement to be enough.  So I have to consider  whether RSAs decision 
to cash settle this claim is fair in the circumstances  taking  into account the policy  terms. 
And if it is, whether the settlement amount is enough  to allow  Mr S to repair the damage.
The starting point  is the contract between Mr S and RSA. Ive looked  at the policy  document  
and it says RSA can settle a claim by paying the cost to repair or replace damage, or by 
offering cash settlement.  Mr S has suggested  RSA should appoint  its own contractor if it 
believes the works can be carried out for the amount  its paid. RSA has said the costs  
involved are not high enough to warrant it instructing  its own contractor. RSA has paid Mr S 
a cash amount to settle the claim. As its up to the insurer  to decide how to settle a claim, Im 
satisfied RSA has acted  reasonably by doing so. 
Ill now turn to whether I consider the settlement amount  to be fair. 
fence panels
Mr S has accepted the fence panels were  damaged  prior to the incident as a result of rot and 
deterioration, which happened over a period of time. So it follows that the entire fence 
doesnt need to be replaced  because this would put Mr S in a better  position  than what he 
was prior to the break-in, and the policy isnt designed to do that.
RSA has said its prepared to contribute to the cost of replacing  two panels because  it 
seems these were further damaged as a result of the burglary. And Im satisfied thats a fair 
resolution.
concrete post
The policy doesnt  provide cover for wear and tear, maintenance  or anything that happens 
gradually. Mr S has said the concrete post showed no signs of wear  and tear prior to the 
burglary and thinks RSA should put it right. RSA has refused to cover the cost of repairing 
the post because it says it was damaged prior to the break-in.
Ive looked at the photographs Mr S has provided  and Im satisfied the surrounding shrubs  
and vegetation  look to be the more  likely  cause  of the post being displaced,  rather than it 
Ref: DRN69996213being pushed  over during the burglary,  as Mr S has suggested. Furthermore, the surveyor  
explained that if the post had been secured in place, it couldnt  have been pushed over, and 
given it was a concrete  post, Im persuaded by that. So from what Ive seen Im more  
persuaded the post was damaged prior to Mr S being burgled. And Im satisfied RSA acted 
fairly by not including the concrete post in its cash settlement.
shed door repair and stud  wall
Mr S quote  to repair the internal wall and door differs greatly from that of RSA. Mr S has 
raised concerns  about RSAs cash settlement figure as he feels  the required work cant  be 
achieved for the price  its provided.
The surveyors report says the wall can be patch repaired, whereas Mr S contractors quote 
includes building a new stud wall and to a higher specification than what  was originally in 
place. It seems if the stud wall was built in accordance with Mr S contractors quote, it would 
go beyond whats required to put Mr S back in the position he was in prior to the burglary. 
Mr S contractors quote also includes plastering of both sides of the wall but the surveyors 
report states that the shed wall wasnt skimmed  which  would again  put him in a better 
position than what he was in prior to the burglary. I appreciate Mr S is keen for his home to 
be as secure as possible but RSA is only required under the policy terms to repair the wall to 
same state  it was originally in. 
I note Mr S is unhappy that RSA didnt secure his property, but taking everything into 
consideration, Im satisfied the cash settlement is fair and so I wont be asking RSA to 
increase it. Understandably  the break-in wouldve been a very troubling incident for Mr S and 
I empathise with him, but from what Ive seen, Im satisfied RSA has acted reasonably.
I know my decision will disappoint him but I hope he understands  why Ive not upheld  his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6999621