K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1997 in connection with a credit  card. Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
background
Mr P complained to this Service.  He said he did not consent to PPI being  added to his credit 
card account; he did not ask for it and he wasnt told it was optional. Our adjudicator thought 
the complaint  should be rejected. Mr P disagreed with our adjudicators  view and asked for 
the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 I think Lloyds Bank  PLC made it clear on his credit card application form that Mr P 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this.
 Lloyds Bank PLC recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Lloyds Bank PLC gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what he said about not consenting to 
the PPI being  added to his account and not being  told it was optional but these points  dont 
change my decision.
It follows that I am not going to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN68292902Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6829290