K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that a credit card balance transfer promotion she received from Lloyds 
Bank PLC didnt make it clear what the interest  rate was. She wants  Lloyds to adjust the 
wording on these promotions and pay compensation to her for the trouble and upset this has 
caused. 
Mrs Ws husband, Mr W, is bringing  the complaint  on her behalf. 
background
Mrs W received  a letter from Lloyds about  its various balance  transfer  offers. These  were  
offers for Mrs W to transfer the balance  from an existing  credit card to her Lloyds credit card 
account. The offer she was interested in was for an interest rate of 4.9%  over 36 months. 
Mrs W called  the bank  and arranged for three  credit card balances  one for her and two for 
her husband  - to be transferred to her Lloyds credit card.  Mr W also spoke to the bank on 
this call. But it seems Mrs W expected the interest rate of 4.9% to be spread over the whole  
36 months. She understood the rate was 1.633% each year,  that is 4.9% divided by three 
years. 
When Mrs W found out that the actual rate of interest was 4.9% per annum, she complained  
to Lloyds that the promotional letter said the interest  rate was 4.9%  over a 36 month period - 
there was no mention  at all that the rate of 4.9%  was yearly instead. 
In the complaint, Mr and Mrs W said that when they spoke to Lloyds to organise  the balance  
transfers, the bank  worked out 4.9% divided by 36 months and told them  what  the interest 
rate and payment would be each month.  
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. In brief, it said while the offer letter didnt specifically say 
the rate was 4.9% APR,  it did state that Mrs Ws account terms and conditions would still 
apply, and these  make it clear that all interest rates for this account are annual. The bank  
also disputed what Mr and Mrs W said they were told on the phone when they made  the 
transfers. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this response,  so she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it for her. In short, the adjudicator  didnt think it was reasonable for 
Mrs W to think the interest rate on the balance transfer was 1.633%  per annum. She also 
didnt think Lloyds had given Mr or Mrs W any incorrect information when they spoke to the 
bank to arrange the transfer. 
Mr W, on behalf of Mrs W, didnt accept our adjudicators view.  In summary, he said 
nowhere did the bank tell them the interest  rate was 4.9% per annum. He also said that 
Lloyds has now changed it balance transfer offer letters. The latest one theyd received 
clearly showed the rate was 4.9% p.a. He says surely this is proof enough that the 
information wasnt clear  in the first place. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN68190982Ive looked at the promotional offer Mrs W received from Lloyds. This clearly shows one of 
the balance transfer offers as being 4.9%  interest  over 36 months with a 0% fee. I agree with 
Mrs W that it doesnt show the rate as 4.9% p.a. But this doesnt mean I accept the offer 
letter was unclear or misleading. 
Ive looked at the regulations around  such promotions. These are contained within the 
regulatory handbook published by the Financial  Conduct Authority. Ive looked at Banking: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS). 
BCOBS sets out the requirement  that a banks communications and financial promotions 
must be presented  in a way that is likely  to be understood by the average members  of the 
group to whom  it is directed, or by whom  it is likely  to be received. Im satisfied that Lloyds 
letter to Mrs W met this requirement. 
I say this because  I think  most  people  who saw a promotion of 4.9% over 36 months  would 
reasonably think  the interest rate was 4.9% per annum. If it was meant to be 1.633%, which  
is how Mrs W interpreted  it, I would have expected Lloyds to have put this, rather than 4.9%. 
If a bank is trying to attract balance transfers,  and this is what  the letter was designed to do, 
why would it say 4.9%,  if the actual annual rate was only a third of this? 
Surely, it would be reasonable to expect  the bank to highlight  the considerably lower rate of 
1.633% per annum  as the headline rate, not a much  higher rate. In my experience,  showing 
an annual rate of 1.633% as 4.9%  over 36 months instead, just isnt the way such offers  are 
promoted. So, Im satisfied that the average person  receiving this letter would have thought  
the interest rate being offered was 4.9%  per annum.  
I can also see that the promotional offer received my Mrs W clearly stated that all her 
account terms and conditions werent  changing. Ive looked at these terms and conditions. 
These are also clear  interest rates are annual.  
Ive looked at the updated offer letter from Lloyds that Mr W sent to us. I accept this shows 
the interest rate of 4.9% p.a. But I dont  agree  this is proof  enough that the information 
wasnt clear in the first place. While  it may be clearer, as Ive just outlined,  Im satisfied the 
average member of the group  who would  have received the original promotion would have 
been likely  to have  understood  it. So I dont think Lloyds has treated Mrs W unfairly or 
unreasonably here.  
Ive also thought about the information Mr and Mrs W were given by Lloyds when the 
balance transfers  were made. Ive listened to that call in full. Nowhere does the bank tell 
either of them  that the interest rate is 1.633% per annum. Nor does Lloyds work out an 
interest rate by dividing  4.9% by 36 months and giving Mr or Mrs W an equivalent monthly 
rate. 
When Mrs W asks what  the interest would be, Lloyds  tells her it cant  calculate this. Mrs W 
does ask what percentage  the repayment  would be each month. The bank correctly  tells her 
its 1%. Shortly after when Mrs W says the interest  will be 1%. Straightaway  Lloyds corrects 
her by saying that 1% wasnt the interest  rate, it was the minimum monthly payment. Mrs W 
says that what she meant. After  listening to this call, Im satisfied all the information given to 
Mr and Mrs W was clear and correct.  
Ref: DRN68190983In summary,  taking all the above  into account,  I dont think  Lloyds has done anything  wrong 
here. Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt treated Mrs W unfairly or unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6819098