K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Adrian Flux Insurance Services Groups  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr W took out car insurance in the summer  of 2018. Adrian Flux acted as broker when 
selling the policy.  The policy started on 12 July 2018  and was underwritten by a separate  
business (the insurer).
During the sales call Adrian Fluxs call handler  took all the relevant details from Mr W. He 
told them  he was employed full time as a manager at a supermarket.  When  he was asked if 
he had another  job he said he recently  got a part-time job at a garage.  He said I wouldnt 
even call it mechanical just helping out. But the call handler put down Mr Ws part-time 
occupation as a mechanic.
In February 2019,  Mr W was driving  a friends  car when he had an accident. He wanted  the 
claim dealt  with under his driving other  cars (DOC) cover but was told he couldnt because  
DOC was excluded from his policy.
Mr W has used  Adrian Flux for his car insurance  for a number of years. And he said he has 
always had DOC cover that allowed him to drive the cars of friends  and family when needed. 
But DOC was excluded  under the new policy Adrian Flux arranged  for Mr W. Adrian Flux 
said that was because the insurer wouldnt allow a policyholder with an occupation within  the 
motor trade  to have DOC cover. Mr W complained.  He said the sale of the policy  was 
advised so Adrian Flux should have told him the policy he took out didnt have DOC cover so 
he could get another policy that did provide that.
Adrian Flux didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint and said it wasnt  an advised sale but they had 
merely provided him with the best priced policy with sufficient information to enable Mr W to 
make an informed choice  whether  the policy was suitable for him. They also said that they 
had told Mr W that he didnt have  DOC cover on his policy.  Mr W didn't think  that was fair so 
he brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that 
Adrian Flux had dealt  with Mr W reasonably. As Mr W didnt agree with our investigator,  the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr W, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ws points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
I have carefully listened to the sales call Mr W had with Adrian Flux in June  2018  when he 
took out the policy. Mr W said his full time occupation was a supermarket manager. But he 
went onto say he had a part time job helping  out at a garage but it wasnt  as a mechanic. But 
the call handler  incorrectly  recorded Mr W as being a mechanic. But I dont think  incorrectly 
recording Mr Ws second job as a mechanic made a difference.  Even though Mr W wasnt  a 
Ref: DRN69020932mechanic, the fact that his second  job was in a garage meant that he worked in the motor 
trade.
I have seen the insurers underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting 
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide someone 
with cover and on what terms. Mr Ws insurers rules  say that they wont provide DOC cover 
to anyone who works within the motor  trade.  And Mr Ws second job was within  the motor 
trade therefore the insurer excluded DOC from his policy.
Mr W said that he has always had DOC cover and he thinks the sale of the policy  was whats 
known as an advised  sale. Had it been an advised sale Adrian Flux should  have told him 
that the policy he was taking out didnt have DOC cover. But Ive seen that the sale of the 
policy was non-advised. That means Adrian Flux only had to provide Mr W with sufficient 
information to enable him to make an informed decision  whether or not he wanted to take 
out the policy offered. That means  Adrian  Flux didnt advise Mr W whether  or not the policy 
was suitable for his needs.
But, in any event, having listened to the sales call carefully, I note that Adrian Fluxs call 
handler did tell Mr W that the driving  other vehicles benefit is excluded  from the policy. I 
think at that stage Mr W could have told Adrian Flux that he wanted  DOC cover and decided 
not to go ahead and buy the policy. 
Also, almost  two weeks before the policy started, Adrian Flux sent Mr W his policy 
documents. Those documents  confirmed that the sale was non-advised. In those documents  
Adrian Flux strongly advised  Mr W to read everything carefully as it is that document [the 
policy], the schedule,  any certificate of insurance  and the policy wording, which  are the basis  
of the insurance  contract you have purchased. If you are in any doubt over any of the policy  
terms or conditions, please contact  us promptly. The policy schedule provided to Mr W said: 
Driving  other cars excluded
This policy provides  no cover for driving  other cars. 
I therefore think Adrian  Flux correctly  identified Mr W as working in the motor trade. And they 
told him the policy offered excluded DOC cover. Adrian Flux did so both during the sales  call 
and in the policy documentation provided to him almost two weeks  before the policy  started. 
I therefore think Adrian  Fluxs actions  were reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6902093