K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about how Marks & Spencer  Financial Services  Plc dealt with his online 
application to open a current  account.  
background
On 25 July 2018 Mr T applied online for a current account with M&S. At the end of July 2018 
M&S said it text him requesting that he confirm some information relating to his income. Mr T 
responded and provided the information requested.
M&S said that at the beginning of August 2018 it asked Mr T to provide proof of identification 
and address after electronic checks had been  unsuccessful. And it said it gave Mr T a list of 
the documents it would  accept. 
Mr T provided a photocopy of his passport together with a letter  from a bank, which  Ill refer 
to as T. This letter  confirmed his loan repayments  to T. M&S said it received these 
documents on 31 August 2018. But, as they didnt meet its requirements, it wrote to Mr T on 
3 September 2018 to explain that further documents would be required. 
On 21 September  2018 Mr T provided an original  statement from a bank Ill refer to as S. 
While this was acceptable as proof  of address M&S  still hadnt  received a certified copy  of 
Mr Ts identification  document,  which meant  it couldnt open his account. 
Mr T heard nothing further about his account  application until he contacted M&S in January 
2019 to query the status of his application.  At this point he discovered his application had 
expired and his account hadnt been opened. He was told if he wanted to still have an M&S 
account hed need to reapply. He was also informed that M&S was no longer offering new 
customers the £150 financial incentive it had been offering at the time he applied for his 
account in July 2018.
Mr T wasnt happy about this and complained  to M&S. It investigated but didnt think it had 
made an error in not opening  his account. It said it had followed correct  procedures and 
hadnt been able to finalise Mr Ts application as it hadnt received satisfactory  
documentation from him to enable it to complete its account opening checks. But it accepted 
that it hadnt notified him that it hadnt  been  able to open his account or that his application 
had expired. In recognition of the trouble and upset this caused  it paid him £100 as a 
goodwill gesture. And it agreed to remove the credit search it had conducted  as part of its 
account application process. 
But Mr T wasnt satisfied with M&S response to his complaint so he referred it to our 
service. He said he wanted M&S to honour the financial incentive it had offered new 
customers at the time of his application.  Our investigator looked into what  had happened 
and, while  they empathised with Mr T, didnt think that M&S needed to do anything more 
here. They thought that £100 compensation it had already paid him was appropriate and fair. 
But Mr T disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN60057382Mr T isnt happy that M&S didnt accept the documents he provided  as confirmation of his 
identity and his address.  He believes that the documents he sent it were sufficient to enable  
it to open his account. With that in mind  Ive thought about whether M&S acted unreasonably 
in refusing to accept  the documents Mr T provided.  And Ive also considered whether he was 
properly informed about the documents  he would  need to provide.
Ive seen the letter M&S sent Mr T on 6 August 2018. Im satisfied this correspondence was 
sent to him promptly. Im also satisfied that it clearly sets out the type of documents it 
required from him together  with a list of documents  that it would accept. Its clear from that 
letter that M&S required Mr T to provide one document to prove his identity and a different 
one to prove his home address. 
This letter explicitly tells Mr T that if he wishes to rely on a passport as confirmation of his 
identity he would need to provide a certified copy of it. It goes on to explain clearly how to 
certify identity documents. And it invites him to contact M&S if hes unsure about the 
documentation he needs  to provide. I dont think M&S couldve been any clearer about  what  
it needed Mr T to do in order to progress  his application. And Id have expected him to get in 
touch with M&S if he didnt understand what evidence was required to confirm his identity 
and address. 
I understand that Mr T sent M&S a copy of his passport as proof of identity. But this wasnt 
received until 31 August,  which  was over 30 days after he had applied  for his account.  I can 
see that his passport wasnt certified as it needed to be. So, M&S rejected it. Its clear that 
Mr T thinks this was unfair. But hed been told that a copy of his passport would only be 
accepted if it had been certified. And as he didnt follow  that instruction I cant fairly find that 
M&S acted  unreasonably in rejecting the document he provided.  
Also on 31 August M&S  received a letter from T addressed to Mr T, which  related to a loan 
he had with it. This document wasnt on the list of approved documents  M&S would accept 
as proof  of address  it wasnt  a bank  or credit  card statement. And I think Mr T ought to 
reasonably have known that the letter from T wasnt acceptable.  As this letter wasnt  on the 
list of approved documents I cant say M&S acted unfairly by rejecting  it.
M&S has a policy whereby account applications  expire after 30 days of them being made. I 
appreciate that Mr T thinks  this is unfair.  But M&S is entitled to set its own policies  with 
which we cant interfere.  The letter Mr T was sent in August  explained clearly  that his 
account application was valid for only 30 days from the date he applied. So, I think  he ought 
to have known  that he had until 29 August 2018  to provide confirmation of his address and 
identity. And Id have  expected him to deal with requests  for documentation by M&S 
promptly to avoid that deadline  expiring. 
By the date M&S received Mr Ts uncertified  passport copy and letter from T his application 
had already expired. But M&S  didnt  make that clear to him and I think  it should have done. I 
can see that, instead, it wrote to him on 3 September explaining why it couldnt  accept his 
letter from T as confirmation of his address.  
Within that correspondence M&S explained  that the letter  hed provided  wasnt on its 
approved list of acceptable documents. It asked him to provide a certified copy  of his 
passport or driving licence together with a suitable  proof of address document. It attached a 
further list of documents it would accept as proof  of identity  and address. Im satisfied that 
this letter  clearly told Mr T that without further  documents it wouldnt be in a position  to 
complete his account application, which was only valid for 30 days from the date he applied. 
Ref: DRN60057383I can appreciate how this letter may have created an expectation in Mr Ts mind that he still 
had a further opportunity to provide evidence of his identity and address even though the 
deadline had already  lapsed. And I think it would have been reasonable for him to think  that 
if he produced acceptable  documentation his account could still be opened. 
I can see that Mr T still wanted to open his account  with M&S at this point. I say this 
because, on 21 September, M&S  received a bank statement he had sent showing he held 
an account with S. But this was now almost two months after hed applied for his account. 
And I think this demonstrates that Mr T wasnt responding promptly  to correspondence he 
was receiving from M&S. 
The bank account statement Mr T provided  was acceptable proof  of his address. But he still 
hadnt provided a certified copy of his driving  licence or passport. So, he hadnt proven his 
identity as M&S needed him to do to finalise his account application, which explains  why it 
didnt open his account. 
Its clear that Mr T thinks M&S didnt open  his account as it didnt wish to honour the financial 
incentive it was offering  at the time of his application.  He also thinks it destroyed  documents 
he had provided.  But Ive seen each document Mr T provided so Im satisfied  M&S  retained 
the documents it was sent.  Im also persuaded that the reason M&S wasnt  able to open an 
account in Mr Ts case was because he hadnt provided the documents  it needed.  Im 
satisfied that, by the time Mr T provided  his bank account statement from S, M&S had given 
him at least  two opportunities to provide the documents it needed. So I cant  say it acted 
unfairly in not opening his account. 
M&S has already  accepted it made an error  in not telling Mr T he still needed to provide 
proof of identity after it received his bank statement from S. It should have told him it still 
hadnt been able to open his account.  And it shouldnt have been necessary for Mr T to 
chase information  about the progress of his application in the way he did. 
In recognition of this error M&S sent Mr T a cheque for £100 compensation. Its clear  that he 
doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience  and experience. So Ive thought 
about whether  the amount  of compensation offered fairly reflects  what happened here.
I realise that it must  have been frustrating  for Mr T not to have had his account  opened as he 
wanted. And I appreciate that communication  could have been  better  here. But Im satisfied 
that the £100 compensation  that M&S paid to resolve Mr Ts complaint is a reasonable 
amount that fairly recognises the trouble and upset he was caused. I also think  its in line 
with our approach  in similar scenarios. So I wont be ordering M&S to pay any more.
Im pleased to see that M&S agreed to remove the credit search it had conducted as part of 
the original account  application. I think this was fair and, while Mr T says his credit file was 
negatively impacted by an unsuccessful account application, Im satisfied M&S appropriately 
restored his credit file by removing the search  it undertook. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I think that M&S  has acted fairly and reasonably  and I 
wont be asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN60057384Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6005738