K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) have only deposited £550 
into her account when she gave them a total of £950.
background
Mrs S went  into a Bank of Scotland branch  on 18 February 2019. Mrs S says she made two 
deposits into her current account on this date,  one for £550, and another for £400.  Mrs S 
was provided with a receipt showing a deposit  for £550. Mrs Ss statement for her current  
account shows a deposit for £550.
Mrs S says she made another deposit for £400  at the same time but using different notes 
which Bank of Scotland have failed to credit into her account. Mrs S complained that fraud  
was committed in branch  and requested  Bank of Scotland review  their CCTV to find out what 
happened to her £400. 
Bank of Scotland reviewed all of the deposits and withdrawals for 18 February 2019 and 
found that the accounts were balanced. They said there wasnt  any evidence to suggest that 
a payment for £400  had been made. Mrs S was also told that CCTV only covered the 
banking hall, not cashier desks. 
When Mrs S complained to the police, Bank of Scotland told the police in their response  that 
CCTV is destroyed after 30 days. 
The adjudicator found that as the accounts  for the branch were  balanced, there  wasnt 
enough evidence  to say that Bank  of Scotland have done anything  wrong.  The adjudicator 
also explained that there wasnt  any CCTV available, so their view was based  on the other 
evidence theyd been provided with.  
Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators findings.  Mrs S says that she had asked to see CCTV 
when she first complained, and feels disappointed that its been  deleted.  As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved,  its been passed  to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mrs S. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
and I wont be recommending Bank of Scotland do anything more.
Mrs S feels  strongly that she credited £950  into her account on 18 February  2019,  and £400 
has gone missing. I dont doubt that what Mrs S has told Bank of Scotland  and this service is 
true to the very best of her knowledge. Bank  of Scotland  say they cant offer any 
compensation because there isnt enough evidence to show  that £400  was paid into Mrs Ss 
account as she says.  
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have  
happened. Although  Mrs S feels certain that Bank of Scotland  are responsible  for the 
missing £400, the evidence  Ive seen makes me think its more likely  that this money  wasnt  
paid into Mrs Ss current account on the day she says. I can understand this is likely  to come 
Ref: DRN62592702as a disappointment  to Mrs S but I hope my findings go some way in explaining  why Ive 
reached this decision.    
Ive taken on board what Bank of Scotland have explained  about their accounts balancing 
across the branch for 18 February 2019. Although I accept this doesnt prove that the money 
wasnt paid in I think its a useful record of the money paid in and out of branch that day. 
Mrs S also holds a receipt for £550  only. I can appreciate its not common to check  receipts 
after every visit to a bank. But when a large amount of money is deposited in, I think its fair 
to say that the responsibility to check the correct amount  has been credited is with a 
customer. I understand Mrs S says she was distracted at the time, and didnt check  the 
receipt until she noticed the £400 hadnt  been  paid in a few days  later. Although  it may have 
just been an oversight in not checking  her receipt  at the time, I still think  the responsibility 
was with Mrs S to check. I dont think its fair to say Bank of Scotland  did something wrong. 
Mrs Ss feels  strongly that CCTV would  prove  her complaint against Bank of Scotland.  I can 
appreciate that it mustve  been disappointing to hear that CCTV had been destroyed.  I think  
the communication from Bank of Scotland to Mrs S about how long CCTV is held for could  
have been better, as it would have  come as a shock to hear this from the police following 
their enquiries. As CCTV only covered the banking hall area, I dont think  this evidence  
would have changed the outcome of Mrs Ss complaint. 
Mrs S thinks  that Bank of Scotland should have  CCTV in the cashier desk area. The level of 
security that a bank  decides to put in place is a decision  that a bank makes.  I dont think  it 
would be fair for me to tell Bank  Of Scotland how to protect its customers, and prevent fraud. 
So I cant say that Bank  of Scotland have done something wrong because of their decision 
to place CCTV in the banking  hall area only.
The evidence Ive seen  shows that Mrs S paid £550  into her account  on 18 February  2019,  
and she was provided a receipt for this amount. I havent seen enough evidence to say that 
a further £400 was paid in by Mrs S on this day. For these reasons I dont think Bank of 
Scotland should pay any compensation  for this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6259270