K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Close Brothers Limited.
background
In July 2018 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers.
Within a short time of taking possession of the car Mr A experienced a coolant leak.  Mr A 
contacted the supplying  dealer who said it would remedy any issues at the MOT which was 
due in around 3 weeks.
A week before the MOT the radiator exploded.  The car was recovered to Mr As local garage 
and the radiator was replaced. The local garage  was unable to get the car to start and 
discovered that cylinder 4 was full of water. It also thought the head gasket had failed.  The 
garage told Mr A that it would cost a lot to repair this so Mr A returned the car to the 
supplying dealer.
The dealership inspected the car and told Mr A that it had found  nothing wrong, other  than a 
loose hose which hadnt been connected  correctly when the radiator was replaced.
Mr A remained of the view that there was an issue with the head gasket. He complained  to 
Close Brothers and it arranged an independent  inspection of the car. The inspection found  
that the engine started  and ran normally and that the head gasket hadnt failed.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the findings in the independent report. He took the car to a main  
dealer who carried  out a compression  test. Mr A says that the test confirmed an issue with 
cylinder 4 with the pressure being  lower  than it should be indicating  a possible issue  with the 
head gasket or the cylinder lining.
Close Brothers didnt  change its view that the car was of satisfactory quality so Mr A 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He considered the independent report as well 
as all of the other information but felt that the car was of satisfactory quality.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the presence  of water in any cylinder was an indication of fault.  
He said he didnt accept  the independent  report because  he said it was impossible to 
conclude anything about the cylinder  lining through a visual inspection alone. Mr A disputed  
that the main  dealer had stated that the car ran well and said hed spoken to other  garages,  
none of whom thought that the issue would be due to normal  wear and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement  theres  an 
implied term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
Ref: DRN66720042circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a used car  such as that supplied  to Mr A  to have a degree of wear  
and tear. So in order  to uphold the complaint I would need  to be satisfied  that there was an 
inherent fault with the car as opposed  to an issue caused by general  wear and tear.
Mr A and Close Brothers disagree about  whether the car has an inherent  fault.  In order  to 
reach a decision,  I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car is of satisfactory quality.
Ive considered the independent report. This says that the engine  started  and ran normally  
and that during the road test there was no overheating, no coolant leaks and no over 
pressurising of the coolant system. It also says that the engine was run for 45 minutes  and 
that there  were no symptoms of head  gasket  failure. The report concluded that no faults 
were found  in respect of the head gasket or cylinder liner.
I appreciate that Mr A doesnt  accept the findings  of the independent report. In particular, he 
says there  was no compression test or cylinder  lining inspection  carried  out. Ive taken 
account of what  Mr A has said. But Ive got no reason to doubt the reliability  of the 
independent report  and I havent  seen  any other  independent evidence  which  casts doubt  on 
its findings and conclusions. 
Mr A has said that its impossible to reach any conclusion about  the cylinder lining without a 
visual inspection. Mr A is of course entitled to hold that view but I have to give greater weight  
to the independent  expert report which has concluded that there  is no fault with the cylinder  
liner.
Mr A took the car to a main dealer for a compression  test so Ive also considered this 
information. The main dealer  didnt provide an opinion in writing but this service managed to 
speak to them. They confirmed that one of the cylinders was a full bar down, but it didnt give 
any diagnosis or opinion as to why this might be the case. 
Mr A has said that hes spoken to other  garages  about the issue  and hes told this service 
that none  of them think the issue could be caused  by wear and tear. I havent seen anything  
in writing from these  garages  directly  so I cant  give their evidence  as much  weight as the 
independent report.
Theres no dispute that Mr A experienced issues with the car within a short  time of purchase. 
I can see that the radiator was replaced.  But beyond  this, Im not persuaded that there is a 
fault with the car. Taking into account  all of the available evidence, and in particular  the 
independent report, I agree with Close Brothers that the car is of satisfactory quality.
I cant  be certain of why there is lower compression  in one of the cylinders.  Theres  nothing 
in writing from any of the garages which offers any diagnostic or opinion  of what might  cause 
this. Based on the findings of the independent report, the compression issue doesnt affect 
the running of the car. So Im not persuaded  that its an inherent  fault which  makes the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  or not for for purpose. 
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN66720043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6672004