K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Satsuma provided to Mr R between  March 
2017 and August 2017. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 03/03/2017 30/06/2017 3 £600.00 £295.20
2 01/06/2017 Outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £166.00
3 28/08/2017 Outstanding 12 £100.00 £16.60
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint and thought  the loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been 
given. Satsuma didnt  respond to these findings,  so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN69623192I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma required to establish  
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.  There doesnt appear to be any 
outstanding dispute about loan 1, so I dont  intend  to make a finding  about this loan in this 
decision. Instead Ill be focusing  on Satsumas  decision to provide loans 2 and 3.
Our adjudicator explained that had Satsuma carried out proportionate  checks  for loan 2 and 
loan 3 it would have shown Mr R was falling into a negative pattern of borrowing. I agree 
with this reasoning  and dont think Satsuma should have given Mr R these loans because:
Mr R was applying for a significantly larger amount of credit from Satsuma when he 
asked for loan 2. And Mr R had not repaid his first loan which meant he would have 
both loans running concurrently.  I think this could indicate that Mr R was not using 
these loans to fill a temporary gap in his finances, but he was instead using them  to 
cover on-going shortfalls in his finances.
Satsuma says it carried out checks by obtaining Mr Rs income and expenditure. But 
in addition to the above point, given the loan amount  and that Mr R would be 
indebted for another 12 months  I think it would have been proportionate for Satsuma 
to gather a comprehensive view of his finances. I dont think  thats what happened  
here. I think  if it had properly considered Mr Rs financial situation  it would  likely  have  
seen that Mr R was not able to sustainably repay any further borrowing. This is 
because Mr R had outstanding loans which would  have impacted his ability  to meet  
any further financial commitments. 
Proportionate checks would likely also have revealed Mr R was spending a 
considerable amount gambling   in some instances this was over half his monthly  
income. There was therefore a risk Mr R would not be able to repay his loan 
sustainably, given  the amount of money he was regularly spending on gambling.   
I appreciate loan 3 was for a lower  amount but by that point Mr R had been  
borrowing from Satsuma for 15 months  and was potentially going to be indebted to it 
for a further 12. And Mr R hadnt  yet paid off his previous loan. Had Satsuma carried 
out a proportionate  check for loan 3, it would have seen that he wasnt likely to be 
able to repay it in a sustainable way. 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans two and three and Satsuma should put 
things right.
Ref: DRN69623193putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
It isnt clear from the information  Satsuma has given us as to whether the outstanding 
balance due on the final loan has been transferred  to a third party.  If it has, then Satsuma 
should buy the loan back if it can. If Satsuma isnt able to buy the loan back  than it needs to 
work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A)You should add together  the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest,  
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  
anything you have  already refunded.
B)You should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments  made  by Mr R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)You should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made by Mr R as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr R having 
made overpayments  then you should refund these  overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. You should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr R. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr R.
E)You should remove any adverse information  you have recorded on Mr Rs credit  file 
in relation to loans  2 and 3. If you have  sold any of the loans you should  ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. You do not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr 
R credit  file until these have been  repaid, but you should still remove  any adverse 
information recorded about these  loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN69623194my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Provident Personal  
Credit Limited should pay put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6962319