K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mr M says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr M says that he thought he would have a better chance of getting the credit card if he 
took out the PPI  but hes not provided much detail about this, so I dont know what 
made him think this. Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr Ms credit card application  
nowhere on this does it say that PPI is compulsory,  or that an application would  be 
looked at more favourably by taking it. It does have a section  titled optional features 
which has a number  of extra  choices for a customer to make.  In this section, theres  a 
tick selecting the PPI. Mr M has then signed  the application, agreeing to the information 
on it. So taking everything ion to account,  I think that Lloyds  made it clear to Mr M that 
the PPI was optional, and that he chose to take it. But I can understand why he doesnt 
remember this as it was over 20 years ago. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M  so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it could have been useful  for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr M about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said  but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN67490912The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6749091