K820x#14The complaint
Mr L complains  that hes lost out financially  because  Liverpool Victoria  Friendly Society 
Limited, made a number  of mistakes when advising him on his annuities.  Ill refer to the 
business as LV= in the rest of this decision.
What happened
Mr L had three pension funds with ReAssure Limited. Two of these funds had guaranteed 
minimum pensions (GMPs). Mr Ls guaranteed minimum  pension  on Fund 1 was £357.68  
per month and on Fund 2 was £104 per month. The third fund was a residual fund,  which 
consisted of what  was left over once his GMPs were met. 
LV= said ReAssure no longer administered pensions and it had an arrangement with 
ReAssure for LV= to search the open market  to obtain the best annuity  rates  for ReAssure 
pension fund holders. 
LV= said, often the amount in a persons pension fund was insufficient  to meet the GMP, but 
in these circumstances, ReAssure would pay the new provider an additional amount to meet 
the guarantees. 
Mr L said he was contacted by ReAssure in October  2018,  with details of his lump sum 
payment and monthly pension. He said he returned the paperwork,  but received  a phone call 
a few weeks later to say there had been a mistake. 
He says he was next contacted by LV=, saying  it could offer better  annuities.  He says he 
signed LV=s paperwork to progress matters.  
LV= said it carried out an open market search  on 10 January  2019.  Having conducted  the 
searches, it concluded  that Provider  A could provide Mr L with higher annuities if he 
transferred his funds.  The amount required to meet the guaranteed annuity amounts were  
£77,733.48 and £32,400.97 respectively. LV= accepts  he was also told he would be able to 
take £30,000 tax free cash (TFC). Mr L said he was also told, at that time, his residual fund 
had a value £20,760.75,  which  he could purchase an annuity  with of £94.74 per month, on 
top of his GMPs. 
When later discussing Mr Ls complaint with him, LV= admitted making at least four 
mistakes. These were - he could not take TFC. LV= had used the wrong post code  
for Mr Ls home  address for the three quotations  obtained from Provider A. And LV= 
had his wrong marital  status down. So, this made  the quotations wrong. 
LV= said, however,  there had been around  a months delay at the outset getting     
Mr Ls information from ReAssure, so it wasnt responsible for all the delay.
New quotes using the correct information  were produced on 29 January 2019.       
Mr Ls residual  fund had reduced to £17,981.26 after the correct information  was 
entered, which he was told would purchase  a monthly annuity income of £78.54  per 
month.
Mr L complained to LV=. LV= investigated  the errors  and issued a final response on 
14 March 2019.  LV= paid Mr L £150 for the mistakes made, which  he accepted. 
Ref: DRN69622892Mr L didnt however start receiving his annuity  payments until May 2019;  so, he 
complained to LV= again.
Provider A received £130,895.20 from ReAssure on 27 March 2019 in respect  of Mr Ls 
pension funds.
Provider A contacted LV=, to tell it that it needed  information from ReAssure to set the 
pension up. It said it need the Supplementary Application to be completed.
LV= wrote to ReAssure  on 5 April 2019  asking it to send the Supplementary 
Application to Provider A, because the plan couldnt go live without it.
On 12 April 2019, LV= contacted ReAssure again to check if the Supplementary 
Application had been sent. According to LV=s notes, ReAssure said it was sent on 
8 April 2019.
On 16 April 2019, LV= spoke to Provider  A, who said it still hadnt received the 
Supplementary Application. LV= followed up on this, asking ReAssure to rectify this. 
According to LV=s  notes,  ReAssure told LV= that it didnt send on Supplementary 
Applications. But on 17 April 2019  ReAssure did send on the Supplementary 
Application to Provider A, the annuity provider.
Mr L didnt receive  his first annuity  payments until May 2019.  Provider As annuity  rates had 
changed by then.  Provider As quotes were only valid for 10 days. Also,  it cost more  to meet  
Mr Ls backdated GMP, which was backdated to 17 October 2018. The residual fund ended  
up being £14,520.18 in May 2019, giving a monthly annuity income of £65.11.
LV= said GMP cases usually took around  8-12 weeks to process, and in this case, it 
took 15 weeks. It said although annuity  rate changes were  not in Mr Ls favour,  his 
residual fund was a bonus and not something  he was contractually  entitled to or 
could have expected to receive.
Our investigator concluded that in relation to delays after the final response  letter,  
LV= was trying to expedite the process  rather than being the reason for the delays. 
She did not require  LV= to do anything more.
Mr L was due to retire in October 2018.  He said he had to keep working for a further 8 
months whilst  waiting  for these pensions  issues  to be sorted  out.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators  view and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an 
ombudsman. Mr L also brought a complaint  to our service against ReAssure. Both 
complaints arising  out of this situation  come to me separately to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  here that LV= made some mistakes. Initially it told Mr L he could take TFC, 
when he couldnt  because his GMPs were underfunded. It provided some  incorrect  
Ref: DRN69622893information about Mr Ls marital status  and his postcode when it was obtaining  the annuity 
quotations, which meant that new quotations had to be obtained.
No doubt this inconvenienced  Mr L. It also delayed matters whilst the new quotations were 
being obtained. But, I cant see that Mr L lost out financially  as a result  of these mistakes. He 
wasnt permitted to take TFC, so although  he was given incorrect  information about this, he 
wasnt entitled to it.
The initial quotes  were  wrong, because they were based on incorrect  information about       
Mr Ls marital  status and postcode. I also understand that some updated information was 
obtained from ReAssure  for the new quotations. This service aims  to put a consumer back 
into the same position they wouldve been in, had there not been a mistake.  I cant  see that 
this particular delay,  which  LV= contributed to in January 2019, had a material  impact on the 
amount of annuity  income Mr L received. I note that Mr Ls annuities were  backdated until 17 
October 2018, the date he first called ReAssure  to arrange his annuities.
So, I cant see that what LV= did wrong  has led to Mr L losing out financially.
I have gone on to consider whether LV= is responsible  for any delay between 29 January 
2019, when new quotations using Mr Ls correct  information were obtained, and when his 
annuity payments  started to be paid from May 2019. I have looked carefully at the time line 
of events. However, I agree with our investigator, it seems to me that LV= throughout this 
period was actively chasing  things  up with ReAssure, rather  than being  responsible  for 
causing the delay. So, I do not consider  that LV= contributed to the delays during this period.
So, looked  at overall, I make no further  award for compensation against  LV=.  Mr L accepted 
£150 from LV= in March  2019, which it seems to me was in line with awards made  by this 
service for the mistakes made  by LV=. So, it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6962289