K820x#14complaint
Mr V and his representative complain  about the way Advantage Insurance Company  Limited  
has handled and settled a claim on his motor  insurance policy.  
background
Mr Vs car was involved  in an accident.  Mr V and his representative  are unhappy that 
Advantage declared his car a total loss. It said it would  cost £8,000 to repair but they have 
been told this could be done for £2,500. They also say the £9,360  valuation  of the car is too 
low and they werent given an explanation of the deductions made which  left Mr V with only 
about £96. They are also unhappy  with the level of service provided.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
The terms of the policy  allow Advantage to consider the car a total loss given  the 
repair costs. They also say it will pay the market  value  of the car which  is the cost of 
replacing it at the time of the loss. And that may not be the value  declared  when the 
policy was taken  out. Mr V didnt  get an estimate from the external mechanic to justify  
the £2,500 repair cost.  And he didnt ask Advantage to use an external repairer.
Mr V got the car three weeks  before  the accident but it would depreciate in value 
immediately. Advantages £9,360 valuation of the car is in line the trade guide 
valuations and slightly above their average. It also disregarded a much lower guide 
valuation. We dont  find adverts  very persuasive as prices in them allow  for 
negotiation. The £9,360  valuation  is fair and reasonable. And the deductions made to 
pay off the vehicle finance and policy excess have been explained to Mr V and are in 
line with what he agreed to when he took out the policy.  
There was a lack of contact between the case handler and Mr V. And he wasnt  kept 
up to date and was given some  incorrect  information. Advantage has agreed  to pay 
him a total of £150 compensation for this poor service and his call costs. Thats fair 
for the trouble and upset caused. Overall the complaint has been handled fairly.  
Mr Vs representative remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs representative says he wasnt sent a welcome pack. But Advantage has shown  this 
was generated  when  the policy was taken out. Its unfortunate if Mr V didnt receive this in 
the post but I cant reasonably hold Advantage responsible for this.
Mr V and his representative are unhappy that his car was deemed a total loss. They say they 
were told by an external  mechanic it could be repaired for £2,500.  But theres  no evidence 
that an estimate was ever provided establishing  this or that Mr V asked Advantage to 
consider passing  the car for external repair. The evidence it had indicated it would cost 
£8,000 or more to repair. On that basis and on the available evidence  I think  it was 
reasonable for Advantage to decide the car was a total loss.
Ref: DRN64899562Mr V and his representative also say Advantages £9,360 valuation  of the car is too low.
Mr Vs policy  says Advantage  will settle the claim by paying  him the market  value of his car 
at the time of loss. And that is the amount it would cost to replace it with something  similar. 
That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that he bought the car for, its declared value 
when the policy was taken out or the cost to him of actually replacing it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
Advantages offer. 
In this case Advantage disregarded one trade guide valuation which was substantially  below 
the others.  Thats fair. Its valuation of £9,360 is also slightly higher than the average  of the 
remaining guide values  it obtained. That is also reasonable.
Advantage has also explained why deductions were made from the settlement to pay back 
the vehicle finance and for the policy excess. 
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr Vs frustration, I dont think  
Advantage has done anything wrong. Its settlement of the claim and valuation of the car are 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And I dont think I can reasonably  require 
Advantage to increase its valuation or pay Mr V any more for the car as he and his 
representative would like.
Even so its clear Advantage couldve dealt with Mr V better in some respects and on some 
occasions. But taking  everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think  
its payment of a total of £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused  is 
fair. And I cant reasonably ask it to pay him any more.
Overall I think  Advantage has acted  fairly  and reasonably and in line with the policys terms 
and conditions. And I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed  outcome in 
this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6489956