K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in 2002. Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think  Barclays made it clear  that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ive seen a copy 
of Mrs Ws credit  card application form and it includes a tick box to accept PPI 
underneath the heading Optional Benefits. This box has been ticked  and Mrs W has 
signed the form.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - including what she have said about  her fairly 
generous sick pay entitlement. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to Mrs Ws sick pay, 
which I note was reduced to half after six months. And it also wouldve paid out if shed lost 
her job. And from what shes said, although she had some  savings,  I dont think  Mrs W 
wouldve been able to maintain all of her important financial commitments  with the savings 
she had for very long.  So this point doesnt  change my decision.
Ref: DRN64916352my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6491635