K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) misrepresented  the 
cost of finance when he replaced  a faulty  car.
Background
In March 2017 Mr G acquired a new car at a cost of £49,352. It had recurring electrical  faults 
and the dealer agreed to swap the car supposedly  on a like for like basis.  However, it said 
that a new agreement had to be drawn  up as there were some  changes to the sums 
involved. BMW UK agreed  to reduce the cost of the new car and contribute  towards the 
deposit. After signing  the new agreement Mr G realised it would result in him paying about 
£5,000 more. 
He complained to BMWFS, but it said that it was a matter for the dealer. Mr G brought  his 
complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our investigators who 
recommended it be upheld.
She said she needed to consider if Mr G had suffered because of any misrepresentation by 
the dealer which  encouraged him to enter into the new agreement. She thought  Mr G had 
been induced  to take out the new agreement  on the basis there would be a reduction  in the 
cash price of the car and a deposit  contribution  made by BMW.
She noted Mr G hadnt read the new agreement  and she thought  this was an oversight,  but 
she understood that he had relied  on the information he had been  given  by the dealer. She 
concluded that Mr G was induced into accepting the offer put to him.
Our investigator referred  to BMWFSs system  notes  which evidenced  this - on 22 March 
2018 these showed BMW UK were going to reduce  the cash price of the car from 
£49,352.78 to £44,580.33 (£4,772.78 saving) and make a £6,410.00 deposit contribution 
which totalled £10,912.78. The interest  rate was reduced to 3.9% instead of 5.9%.
She set out details  of the two agreements 
She asked  BMWFS for further information  on how the new agreement had been worked out, 
but received very little useful information  despite allowing a significant  amount of time. She 
concluded that Mr G was out of pocket by some  £5,000.
She suggested BMWFS recompense Mr G by either:
refunding the difference to Mr G or,
deducting the difference from the balloon payment if Mr G is looking to keep the car 
at the end of the agreement
Mr G agreed and BMWFS  asked  how much it should refund the customer  and the exact 
amount the investigator thought it should deduct from the balloon payment. T said there  
could be difficulties in reducing the balloon payment. 
Later it said that the new car is a slightly  newer version of the old one with some minor 
changes and it would hold its value better which meant the balloon payment was higher.  It 
Ref: DRN67326542explained that Mr G's replacement  car: was done  as a sales prospect lead, not rejection. As 
such there is no obligation around the figures we or the retailer provide. Ultimately, as the 
customer agreed to the figures at the point of sale (28/03/18), and he wasn't privy to the 
conversation about how the new figures  have  been  reached, it's difficult for us to agree the 
retailer have acted unfairly. It offered Mr G £250  compensation.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must say at the outset that our investigator has struggled to get any meaningful response 
from BMWFS and this matter has been unreasonably delayed  by its inaction. I appreciate 
that it has sought assistance from the dealer, but the complaint is against BMWFS and it is 
responsible for dealing  with reasonable queries about the finance arrangements.
I have noted that BMW accepted the old car was faulty and from the information  I have  seen 
it was agreed Mr G would  be given a replacement car. Mr G says that this was to be at no 
extra cost.  It seems the dealer thinks otherwise, though it has been suggested that the deal 
given to him was equivalent to the old one due the likely increased value of the new car.
Quite simply BMWFS  hasnt been  unable to explain  the rationale for the new deal and has 
not put forward a persuasive case to show that Mr G has not been disadvantaged by the 
new deal. He paid monthly payments totalling  £3,088.62 for the old car and if he had 
rejected it, which  I believe  he was entitled to do, then he would have been entitled  to his 
deposit back plus interest and probably some compensation  for loss of use and distress and 
inconvenience. He could have then purchased a new car as a separate  transaction.
Overall I believe he has lost out by the new deal and while  it is unfortunate he didnt check  
the figures before signing I consider he should  be put back  in the positon  I believe he agreed 
with dealer. He shouldnt  end up paying more than the original agreement.  He has, in effect, 
paid for his use of the original car by means of his monthly payments and deposit so any 
possible increased value  of the new car will only offset that. 
I have noted the interest rate is lower on the new agreement, but given  the lack of clarity 
provided by BMWFS as to the make up of the agreements I cannot say that this should 
come into the calculations for redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
refund  the difference of to Mr G of £4,803.29, or
deduct the difference from the balloon payment if Mr G is looking to keep the car at 
the end of the agreement
pay him £250 for the distress  and inconvenience  he has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Ref: DRN67326543Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6732654