K822xcomplaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr W1 in his capacity as Executor of the estate of the 
late Mr W2, against Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited (Kensington). Mr W1 says:
Kensington failed  to tell him about mortgage  arrears because it hadnt registered  his 
contact details as Executor when it transferred to a new system;
Kensington mis-handled his personal data as well as a data subject access  request  
(DSAR);
Kensington didnt  follow the Mortgage  Pre-Action Protocol (MPAP);
Kensington will not agree to comply with a court order in proceedings between  Mr W2s 
estate and his former  wife, Mrs W.
To settle  the complaint Mr W1 wants Kensington to take the following action:
fix Data Protection issues,  which Mr W1 says he will be reporting to the Information 
Commissioner;
review and monitor its public email address;
adhere to the MPAP;
adhere to Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulations;
own up to errors;
write to customers when an internal process  blocks the customers details;
pay compensation for financial  loss and stress;
agree  to comply  with the court order in the proceedings between the estate and 
Mrs W in relation  to indemnities  for arrears and fees.
background 
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
And, as I will explain  later in this decision, many of the issues Mr W1 is unhappy about arent 
matters that I can consider. So although I note hes made very detailed  representations (all 
of which  Ive read and noted), this decision covers  only those matters which I consider are 
(a) relevant and (b) within our remit.
What happened  can be summarised briefly.  Mr W2 and Mrs W had a mortgage on a 
property where the legal title was in their joint names, but where  the beneficial  interest  was 
held as tenants in common. The property was mortgaged  to Kensington. Mr W2 and Mrs W 
had been divorced since 2005. I am sorry to note that Mr W2 passed away  in February 
2016. Mr W1 was appointed as his sole Executor and obtained a Grant  of Probate  (GOP). 
Ref: DRN68739302He sent this to Kensington in June 2016,  and was given information  about the mortgage 
account.
Following Mr W2s death, Mrs W made a claim against Mr W2s estate for his share of the 
property. This was eventually settled  by way of a Tomlin Order  in November 2018. 
Meanwhile, since February 2018  Mrs W had stopped  making regular mortgage payments, 
but Kensington failed to contact Mr W1 about  this.
This was because Kensington had changed  its administrative  system in November 2017, at 
which point the GOP  should have been  added to the system. Kensington also should have 
written to Mr W1 requesting identification  documents so that it could re-register his details on 
its new system.  If this had happened, Kensington would have been able to discuss  the 
account with him. But when  Mr W1 spoke to Kensington in December 2017,  he wasnt able 
to pass the  security questions, and so he wasnt given any information  about the mortgage 
account. 
Kensingtons notes  show  that it was explained  to Mr W1 on several  occasions  that hed need  
to send in verification of his identity so this could be noted on the system. Mr W1 told 
Kensington that he had already sent this in 2016 and said he was going  to complain to the 
Information Commissioner. 
In October  2018 Mr W1 received a letter from Kensingtons solicitors about  arrears on the 
mortgage account, and the potential of possession action. Mr W1 was very unhappy about 
this and complained.  Kensington acknowledged that thered been a failure  in its internal 
procedures which had resulted in Mr W1s details not being recorded. Mr W1 was also 
unhappy about Kensingtons requests for identification documents  and how it had dealt with 
his request for a DSAR.  Mr W1 also considered Kensington to have breached the MPAP by 
failing to contact  him about mortgage arrears  before  going ahead with legal action.
(The MPAP is the steps lenders are required to take to engage with borrowers and help 
them address mortgage arrears  before  beginning any possession action, which must be 
seen as a last resort.  The MPAP reflects the regulatory obligations laid down by the FCA.)
Kensington acknowledged  it had made  mistakes  and that its customer  service  had fallen  
short, particularly in relation to not keeping Mr W1 informed of the position on the account 
and failing to comply with the MPAP. Kensington paid Mr W £500 compensation for this. In 
recognition of delay  in responding to Mr W1s DSAR,  Kensington paid Mr W1 a further £100.
Mr W1 wasnt  happy with this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  He 
says that the compensation offered hasnt in any way compensated him for his own personal 
losses and the immense financial loss, stress and inconvenience hes been caused. Mr W1 
says that, if hed known Mrs W had stopped paying the mortgage after February 2018, he 
would never  have settled out of court with her, or agreed to the property being  marketed.
Mr W1 also says that the time hes spent on having  to deal with these issues  meant he was 
physically stopped from being able to look for work, and believes Kensington should 
compensate him for this.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted that Kensington had also agreed to 
remove fees and interest  totalling £1,510.46  added  to the account between 1 December 
2017 and 10 October  2019, to reflect the fact that Kensington  had failed to comply  with the 
Ref: DRN68739303MPAP. Kensington  also offered to pay Mr W1 an additional £500, on top of the £600  hed 
already been paid.
The investigator explained to Mr W1 that Kensington wasnt obliged to get involved in the 
court proceedings between Mr W2s estate and Mrs W. He didnt think Kensington needed to 
do anything more.
Mr W1 disagreed. Hes made some further points, which I summarise:
the legal  costs for the court case with Mrs W were around £10,000-£12,000, a large 
proportion of which Mr W1 holds Kensington accountable for;
he is unwilling to accept any offer of compensation that doesnt include Kensington 
accepting that it is liable for the consequences  of the Tomlin  Order;
although Kensington agreed to refund fees and charges, there was no breakdown  of 
these;
he is the person  who has been  affected, not Mrs W; 
Kensington has not treated him fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed everything Mr W1 and 
Kensington have  said,  and Ive considered what  our investigator has thought  was a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
After doing so, I have  no doubt of Mr W1s strength of feeling about  this matter; I can glean 
from what hes sent us about the court action between the estate and Mrs W how upsetting 
those proceedings  must have been for Mr W1. But I think I need to clarify right at the start 
the extent to which the Financial Ombudsman  Service can address Mr W1s complaints and 
the limitations on my powers to order Kensington to pay compensation in this case.
This complaint is brought by Mr W1 in his capacity as Executor of Mr W2s estate.  Our rules 
allow this, as a party who is authorised by law (under a GOP) can bring a complaint to us. 
But we can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by 
the customer  not by a third party. This means that we dont award compensation to 
Executors who have  brought  a complaint on behalf of an estate. 
I have read and acknowledged everything Mr W1 has said about how he considers 
Kensingtons actions  have  affected him personally,  but his own claim against Kensington 
isnt something I can take into account.  This is because Mr W1 isnt Kensingtons customer. 
Consequently, he is not entitled  to compensation in his own right.
This is a joint mortgage account, and so I can only consider the complaint in the context of 
how it has affected the estate. Thats because the other account  holder, Mrs W, isnt a party  
to this complaint.
I also cant consider any new issues Mr W1 has raised during  the course of the complaint. I 
have only looked  at the issues  which Kensington has had the opportunity to address in its 
final response letters.
As far as Data Protection issues are concerned, these fall outside the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I note Mr W1 has made a complaint to the Office of the Information  
Ref: DRN68739304Commissioner about Kensingtons handling of his personal data. This is the organisation 
responsible for dealing  with breaches of data protection  legislation  and is the most 
appropriate organisation to deal with this. Thats because Mr W1s concerns about  how 
Kensington has handled his personal data is not only is outside my remit, but is personal to 
Mr W1. Because he is not Kensingtons customer, I cant (as Ive said above) consider any 
complaint from him personally against Kensington.  The Office  of the Information 
Commissioner is the correct party for this aspect of Mr W1s complaint.
I also dont have the power  to tell Kensington how to run its business, including monitoring of 
email addresses,  or the processes it has in place to contact customers. I also have no power 
to regulate Kensington or ensure that it adheres to FCA regulations thats the role of the 
FCA. 
In addition, because  Mrs W isnt a party to this complaint, I cant  discuss  any contact she 
may have  had with Kensington  during the period in question when Mr W1 wasnt  kept 
informed about  the mortgage. 
But I am able to look at how Kensington dealt  with Mr W1 in his capacity as Executor in 
respect of issues relating  directly to administration of the mortgage account. 
I think Kensington could  have  done  better in relation to the records on its system. I am glad 
to note that Kensington has acknowledged that it made mistakes.  It failed properly to register  
the GOP  and Mr W1s details as representative  of Mr W2s estate when it changed systems 
in November 2017. As a result, Mr W1 wasnt  given  information to which he was entitled 
about the position on the account. Kensington  also acknowledged  that its failure to provide 
Mr W1 with arrears  information resulted in a breach of MPAP. 
But I also note that Kensington  explained  to Mr W1 that hed need to send in documents to 
verify his identity. Mr W1 was resistant to doing so, saying hed done this in 2016, and that 
he would  complain to the Information  Commissioner. So although Kensington had made  a 
mistake in not transferring Mr W1s information  onto its new system, the situation could have 
been rectified easily enough  in December 2017 if Mr W1 had agreed  to send in his 
information again rather than escalating a complaint  to the Information Commissioner.
Because Kensington has admitted its mistakes, I dont need  to analyse each and every 
incident of where  something went wrong. Suffice  it to say that Kensington should have done 
better in its handling of this matter. I dont know if Mr W2s estate had the funds available to 
pay the mortgage once it fell into arrears  in 2018.  But nevertheless  Kensington should  have 
let Mr W1 know what was happening  on the account.
Kensington said that to put things  right it would refund fees and charges to the account,  
totalling £1,365.12, plus interest  on those fees and charges of £145.34. Mr W1 says no 
breakdown has been  given of these, and I apologise if this wasnt  set out in previous 
correspondence from the investigator. The breakdown is as follows:
 1 Dec 2017  Cheque  Fee £10.00
 1 May 2018  Arrears  Management  Fee (AMF)  £30.00
 1 Jun 2018  AMF  £30.00
 1 Jul 2018  AMF  £30.00
 1 Aug 2018  AMF  £30.00
 29 Aug 2018  Field  Agent  fee £90.00
Ref: DRN68739305 1 Sep 2018  AMF  £30.00
 26 Sep 2018  Solicitors  instructions  £65.00
 1 Oct 2018  AMF  £30.00
 1 Nov 2018  AMF  £30.00
 1 Dec 2018  AMF  £30.00
 1 Feb 2019  AMF  £30.00
 1 Mar 2019  AMF  £30.00
 1 Apr 2019  AMF  £30.00
 1 May 2019  AMF  £30.00
 1 Jul 2019  AMF  £30.00
 1 Aug 2019  AMF  £30.00
 13 Aug 2019  Third  party  fees £665.52
 1 Sep 2019  AMF  £30.00
 1 Oct 2019  AMF  £30.00
 3 Oct 2019  Third  party  fees £38.10
 10 Oct 2019  Third  party  fees £16.50
This represents arrears  fees, field agents  and legal fees added to the account.  Im satisfied 
that it is only fair that these are removed from the account. 
The legal action  between  the estate and Mrs W isnt something that Kensington was 
involved with. Ive noted what Mr W1 has said about  that  which  is that if hed known the 
position on the account in October 2018, he would never have agreed to the Tomlin  Order 
which brought the legal  proceedings between the estate  and Mrs W to a conclusion.  At the 
time Mr W1 hadnt had any correspondence from Kensington for some time, which 
Kensington accepts  was its fault. Mr W1 told Kensington that Mrs Ws solicitors had said in 
correspondence that the mortgage account  was up to date.
But it was up to Mr W1 and his legal advisers  to ensure they had all the relevant information  
before agreeing to settle the legal proceedings. I would have expected that information to 
include an up-to-date  statement of the mortgage  account.  If Mr W1 was advised to enter 
into the Tomlin Order  without knowing the full position on the mortgage  account, thats 
something hell need to discuss with his own solicitors.  Its not something for which  I can 
hold Kensington  responsible. 
In addition, Kensington isnt bound by the Tomlin  Order. This means that Kensington is 
under no obligation to enforce any agreement for Mrs W to indemnify the estate for any 
arrears on the mortgage account.
In all the circumstances, I accept that Kensington made mistakes  in its administration  of the 
account  in particular its failure  to contact Mr W1, which was a breach of the MPAP. Im 
satisfied that Kensingtons offer to refund fees to the mortgage  account for the period when 
Kensington didnt  contact  Mr W1 (as listed above) is fair and reasonable. 
As far as Mr W1s  own claims for compensation are concerned, as Ive already mentioned  , 
as Executor Mr W1 isnt entitled to compensation for his own personal financial losses, 
trouble and upset.  I appreciate Mr W1 will be unhappy about this, but as he is not 
Kensingtons customer, I cant make any award of compensation to him. Kensington has 
already paid Mr W1 £1,100, and I dont have the power to order Kensington to pay him 
anything more.
Ref: DRN68739306Overall, whilst Im accept  Kensington made  mistakes, I dont think  its required to do anything 
further in relation to the mortgage account or to pay any additional compensation, for the 
reasons given above.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W1 wanted. I have no doubt  this has been a very 
upsetting time for him. But in all the circumstances, other than the refund of fees and 
interest, I dont think Kensington needs  to do anything  further.
I understand that the solicitors closed  their file on the potential possession action in 2019, 
but that the mortgage account  is in arrears. Given the terms of the Tomlin Order, Mr W1 
might want  to take legal  advice on the options  available  to the estate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr W1 to decide if he wants  
to accept on behalf of the estate the refund  of fees and interest  by Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited  of £1,510.46 (as detailed above) in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr W2, to accept or reject  my decision before 26 September 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6873930