K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC incorrectly changed his address and date of birth 
which led to a drop in his credit score while he was applying for a mortgage.  As a result, Mr J 
had to borrow funds  to partially  repay  a credit  card debt. 
Background
Mr J moved home and visited Lloyds in February  2019 to change his address. But due to a 
systems issue,  Lloyds used a previous address instead of Mr Js new details and changed  
his date of birth. Mr J has explained that around this time he was trying  to secure a mortgage  
and the incorrect  information caused  his credit score  to drop. 
Mr J says that to secure the mortgage he had to borrow around £5,500 from friends and 
family which was used to partially repay  a credit card debt. Mr J has confirmed the mortgage  
was approved. 
Mr J complained and Lloyds agreed its error  led to a drop in his credit score. Lloyds offered 
£250 and apologised for the mistake. But Mr J asked  Lloyds to cover the money he used to 
repay his credit card debt. Mr J referred his complaint  to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator thought  Lloyds offer was reasonable and that it had dealt with 
Mr Js complaint fairly so didnt ask it to increase its offer or take any other action. Mr J didnt 
accept the investigators  view so his complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  agree that Lloyds made  a mistake which meant incorrect  information was linked to 
Mr J on his credit file. Lloyds accepts that the mistake led to a reduction in Mr Js credit  
score. In this case, I need to make a decision concerning whether Lloyds offer is fair and 
whether it reflects  the impact of the mistake. 
Mr J says that his credit  score went  down  at an important time  when he was applying  for a 
mortgage. Hes told us that, as a result,  he borrowed a substantial  amount of money from 
family and friends  which he used  to reduce his credit card debt and secure his mortgage. 
Whilst I dont doubt  that Mr J borrowed money to reduce his credit card debt and take out his 
mortgage, Im not persuaded that was solely due to Lloyds  mistake.  Ill explain why. 
Mortgage lenders  set their own criteria for assessing applications and whilst they will use 
information held by the credit reference agencies, the score itself isnt communicated when a 
credit search is completed. 
In addition, Mr J has told us that the lender  approved his mortgage  application.  So I think its 
unlikely that the requirement  for him to reduce his credit card debt was solely  linked to the 
information Lloyds  reported about  his address and date of birth. A lender can ask an 
applicant to reduce  their other debts for a range of reasons, including concerns over 
affordability for example. 
I also note the investigators  point  that theres  been no loss in this case.  Mr J says he 
borrowed money to repay borrowing he held on a credit card. Whilst I appreciate he now 
Ref: DRN63939172owes family and friends, the funds in question  were already owed to his credit card provider. 
As Mr J had the benefit of those funds, Im not persuaded  it would be fair to tell Lloyds to 
repay them. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J, but Im unable to agree that telling Lloyds to compensate  him for 
the funds he used to partially repay  his credit card is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Lloyds has accepted its error impacted  Mr Js credit score and took steps to amend the 
information it reported. Lloyds offered Mr J £250  and I think  that fairly  reflects the impact of 
the incorrect information it reported. As a result, Im not telling Lloyds to increase its offer.  I 
leave it to Mr J to decide whether he wishes to accept Lloyds existing offer of £250. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6393917