K822xcomplaint
Mrs Z is unhappy  with the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC handled her chargeback  claim.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
of my provisional decision and it forms part of this, my final decision.
In summary,  Mrs Z was a customer of a merchant Ill refer to as M. M offered what  Mrs Z 
believed to be business training courses.  However, in June 2018,  M was ordered to stop 
trading by the Federal Trade Commission in the USA,  as they were running a fraudulent  
business.
After Mrs Z realised  what happened,  she asked Barclays  to raise a number of chargebacks
for payments shed  made  to M. The transaction she raised a chargeback  on, on                  
13 September 2018, which totalled £11,298.71 was defended. The chargeback  was raised  
under the chargeback rule that related to goods and services not being received.  The 
defence questioned the details of the claim, the chargeback timescales and explained  that at 
best Mrs Z would only be entitled  to a proportionate  settlement. This was because M said 
she received some  resources before they were ordered to stop trading. 
On 4 October 2018, Barclays asked Mrs Z to provide some additional information within
seven days. Unfortunately, Mrs Zs reply was lost in the post and this was confirmed by
Royal Mail. Barclays subsequently closed the claim as they were out of time to respond to
Ms defence. Mrs Z didnt  think  this was fair as she said she only received the request  one
day before  the deadline  and she didnt do anything wrong. She also explained that the
information requested  was the same as shed originally provided  in relation to an earlier
chargeback about  M. In response, Barclays said they wouldnt have continued the 
chargeback to the arbitration stage, even  if Mrs Zs correspondence hadnt  got lost. This is 
because she still hasnt  been able to provide all of the information they needed.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I wasnt intending  on asking Barclays to cover the 
cost of the chargeback claim.  However, I did intend  to direct them to pay Mrs Z £250  
compensation for the upset their poor communication  caused her.
Barclays accepted  my decision and didnt provide any further comments. 
Mrs Z replied with a court document about  M, and some additional comments. In summary 
she said:
She didnt attend the two hotel events  as they were due to take place abroad.  Shes 
also offered to provide her passport to show that she didnt  travel.
She agrees  that it wasnt made clear when the services were due to be provided, 
however, the training resources were  meant  to last a lifetime, and help her earn a 
substantial income by running  her own online business.
She sent our investigator an email on 28 October 2019, and this explains that she 
couldnt have  contacted M as their online portal and phone numbers werent working. 
She was also told that M wouldnt  respond to any correspondence, so she didnt 
attempt to do so.
Ref: DRN69347252She would  like me to contact a third party to obtain more information  about M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the further points made  by Mrs Z, but they dont change my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. I say that because:
The additional court  document provides further details about M, but it doesnt impact 
on the way Barclays  handled the chargeback  claim. 
I dont think it is necessary for me to contact the third party Mrs Z has suggested.  My 
role is to consider  the evidence in this case.  Im satisfied Ive got enough information 
to reach  a decision and Ive accepted  what Mrs Z has said about  M. For example, 
shes provided court documents showing that they were acting  fraudulently.   
Mrs Z has clarified that she didnt attend the hotel events, and offered to provide her 
passport. As Ive previously explained,  it is no longer possible to progress the 
chargeback claim any further, and the time to provide additional information has 
expired. I also think it is unlikely Barclays would have acted any differently had they 
been made aware of this information  earlier. I say this because, as Mrs Z has now 
acknowledged, it still isnt clear  when each of the services were  due to be received, 
and we also dont  know the individual cost.  I also acknowledge Mrs Zs comments  
about the temporary access she had to the training resources. However,  this does 
mean that at least part of the training course was provided. Due to the uncertainties 
here, I still think it would have been  difficult  for Barclays to have addressed  the 
arguments made in the defence or calculated a proportionate refund.
I have re-read the email that Mrs Z referred  to in response  to my provisional decision. 
I accept what shes said about  the communication channels shed previously used to 
contact M. I also note her comments about the low chance of receiving a reply from 
written correspondence.  However,  the chargeback  rules dont require evidence of a 
response from a merchant - they just require evidence of an attempt.  I dont think 
Mrs Z has sufficiently  evidenced that here based  on the evidence Ive seen.
I acknowledge Mrs Zs disappointment  about  the earning  potential for her online 
business. I also suspect  that this decision  will be a further disappointment to her. 
However, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont  think Barclays handled her 
chargeback claim unfairly, so Im not directing  them to cover  the cost of the claim.
Nether Mrs Z or Barclays have  objected to the £250 compensation Ive proposed  for 
the poor communication, so my thoughts in relation to this issue  remain the same.
Ref: DRN69347253my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £250  compensation 
to Mrs Z for the trouble  and upset they caused  her. Barclays  doesnt need to do anything 
else in relation to the chargeback claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69347254COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled her chargeback  claim.
background
Mrs Z was a customer of a merchant Ill refer to as M. M offered what Mrs Z believed  to be business  
training courses, which  would equip her with the skills  and tools  she needed  to run her own online 
business. However,  in June 2018, M was ordered to stop trading by the Federal Trade  Commission in 
the USA as they were running a fraudulent business. Mrs Z has provided court  documentation  
showing that to be the case.  
After Mrs Z realised  what happened, she asked Barclays to raise a number of chargebacks for 
payments shed made to M. The majority of these chargebacks were successful and went  
undefended by Ms bank  as such they dont form part of this complaint. However,  the transaction she 
raised a chargeback on, on 13 September 2018, which totalled  £11,298.71 was defended.
The invoice for the above transaction showed that Mrs Z entered  into two training agreements and an 
annual membership  plan on 26 February 2018. Mrs Z has said the transaction  included  full payment 
of the first agreement and a partial payment towards the second. The supporting documentation  also 
shows that the annual membership started 30 days after the date of purchase. However, the training 
agreements also included one free months membership  as a benefit. As part of these plans, Mrs Z 
was due to receive online training and marketing resources, resources such as CDs, coaching and 
two hotel events.
To support  her claim,  Mrs Z provided  Barclays with copies of her contracts for the provision  of 
services from M, the invoice,  a copy  of the court  order and a letter from an independent coach, which 
explained Mrs Z, had only received one coaching  session from her, before the Federal  Trade 
Commission took action and the online resources were  removed.
In response to the chargeback, Barclays received  a defence from M. This questioned the details of 
the claim, the chargeback timescales and explained that at best Mrs Z would only be entitled to a 
proportionate settlement.  This was because M said she received some resources before  they were  
ordered to stop trading.
On 4 October 2018, Barclays  asked  Mrs Z to provide some additional information  within seven days. 
Unfortunately, Mrs Zs reply  was lost in the post and this was confirmed  by Royal Mail. Barclays 
subsequently closed the claim as they were out of time to respond to Ms defence.  Mrs Z didnt think 
this was fair as she said she only received the request  one day before the deadline and she didnt do 
anything wrong. She also explained that the information requested  was the same as shed originally 
provided in relation to an earlier chargeback about M. Shed also specifically asked Barclays to 
consider this information in relation to all of the chargebacks  shed raised.  
Our investigator didnt think Barclays handled  the claim  fairly. He said Barclays wasnt responsible for 
the lost post and they dispatched their request on the same day it was dated. However, he thought 
Barclays unreasonably delayed asking Mrs Z for the additional information  and he was also 
concerned they didnt take the information shed already  provided into consideration. He also 
highlighted the fact Barclays hadnt provided our service with the VISA chargeback reason code they 
used to process the claim.
In response, Barclays explained that theyd processed the claim  under  the chargeback  rule that 
relates to merchandise and services not being received.  They also said they wouldnt have continued  
the chargeback  to the arbitration stage, even if Mrs Zs correspondence hadnt got lost. This is 
because she still hasnt been  able to provide all of the information they needed.
Ref: DRN69347255As both sides  couldnt agree, Ive therefore considered the case  afresh. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear Mrs Z has been the unfortunate  victim of a fraudulent business offering training 
courses. In making this decision, Im not commenting on Ms actions.  Instead  Ive considered if 
Barclays fairly applied and followed  the appropriate chargeback rules. 
A chargeback  is a process consumers  can use to dispute debit card transactions. As part of the 
chargeback, the consumer  asks their bank - Barclays in Mrs Zs case  - to claim money  back  for a 
disputed transaction from the bank account of the business that provided the goods or service. 
Chargeback isnt a guaranteed method  to achieve a refund as banks have no control  over the 
outcome. However, we would reasonably expect a bank to attempt a chargeback and progress  it to 
the arbitration stage, provided  the chargeback criteria have  been met and all the necessary evidence 
has been provided.
As stated in the chargeback  rules relevant in this case, Barclays  had 30 calendar  days to reply  to Ms 
defence. As Barclays didnt  respond to the defence within this timescale,  it means  it is now too late for 
Barclays to take any further action with the claim.  They are also unable to raise  a new claim for the 
same transaction, as a chargeback can only be raised once.
Ive therefore considered what, if anything, Barclays should have done differently and what the likely  
consequences wouldve been. Barclays have said they wouldnt have escalated  the claim to the 
arbitration stage, even if theyd received Mrs Zs missing correspondence in time - so Ive considered 
if this conclusion is reasonable. Ive also thought about whether it was necessary for Barclays to have 
requested additional information from Mrs Z.
reason code requirements 
Barclays have shown they processed the chargeback  under the reason  code that relates to 
merchandise and services  not being received. For a chargeback under this reason code to succeed, 
Mrs Z would need to show that she didnt  receive  the merchandise or services  she paid for.
The timescales for this reason code  are 120 calendar days from the transaction  processing date or 
120 from the last date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services. This is 
provided it doesnt  exceed 540 calendar days from the transaction processing date. 
As M stopped trading on 5 June 2018, I think this was the last time Mrs Z couldve reasonably 
expected to have received the services. I say this because none of the documents shes provided 
state the dates the services  were due to be provided.  The only exception  to this is the annual 
membership and the resources  connected to this, as Ive explained above.  Mrs Z raised her 
chargeback on 13 September 2018,  as this was within 120 days  of 5 June 2018,  and 540 days  from 
the transaction processing date                      26 February 2018, Im therefore satisfied it was raised  in 
time for her to at least claim a proportionate refund of the services/merchandise she didnt receive.
The rules also state: 
The chargeback is limited to the portion of services or merchandise not received. 
Before  the issuer may initiate the chargeback, the cardholder must attempt to resolve the 
dispute with the Merchant or the Merchants liquidator.
Ref: DRN69347256The following information also needs to be provided: 
A detailed  description of the merchandise or services purchased.
The expected arrival date of the merchandise/services.
Evidence of the attempt  to resolve the dispute with the merchant.
Ms defence to the chargeback was as follows:
M provided  services to clients through June 5, 2018. Your customer  indicates  services  were 
to be provided on 06/11/18. A detailed  description  of the specific services purchased has not 
been provided  and there is not sufficient  documentation/information that details the services 
expected on this date.
Further, your customer indicates the services they received were not as described. Your 
customer has been receiving  services from M since 02-26-2018. They did not stop receiving 
services until June 5, 2018. Further, if the timeframe had not expired,  the dispute amount is 
limited to the portion of the services that were  not received  and the customer  has been 
receiving services from M since 02-26-2018
In response to the above defence, Barclays asked Mrs Z to provide the following information: 
What did you order and what did you actually  receive?
A copy of the courier  receipt or any voucher  that shows that the goods have been returned to 
the company, or an explanation as to how you have attempted to send the goods back.
An explanation of your attempts to resolve  your dispute with the Company/Liquidators.
It is unclear if Barclays considered the information Mrs Z had already sent them  before sending  this 
request. However, I dont think the request was unreasonable in any event. 
This is because the information Mrs Z already  provided doesnt fully address Barclays  questions. 
Specifically, the information  doesnt contain evidence that shed contacted M or the liquidator  directly. 
I also note that the annual memberships suggested she would receive CDs that had the potential to 
be returned. It is also unclear whether Mrs Z accessed the online resources before  she became 
aware of the court order. And the documentation  doesnt  explain,  if shed  attended or booked  either of 
the hotel events,  that were  included as part of the agreements. 
Im satisfied that the information request Barclays sent to Mrs Z was dispatched  on the same day it 
was dated. As such, I cant hold Barclays responsible  for the fact Mrs Z didnt receive  the request until 
the day before  the deadline.  Barclays  also isnt responsible for the fact her correspondence was lost 
in the post.
However, I do think it would have been good customer service for Barclays to have  acknowledged the 
fact shes  already provided some documentation and to have given a clearer explanation as to what  
information was missing.  I also think Barclays should have reasonably sent the request much earlier.  
This is because Barclays system notes suggest the defence  was received on 18 September 2018, 
but the information  request  wasnt sent to 
Mrs Z until 4 October 2018. This means that a considerable amount of the 30-day  time limit had been 
used by Barclays before they sent the request. 
Ive considered what I think is likely  to have happened if Barclays had provided clearer information  in 
their letter and sent it earlier.  However,  I dont think it would have changed  the outcome. This is 
because since raising her complaint with our service,  Mrs Z has been sent a clearer information  
request and her response, still doesnt address all of the outstanding  questions. Unfortunately, it isnt 
clear when the services were due to be received and we dont know the individual cost of each 
service. 
Ref: DRN69347257In light of the above, I dont think Barclays have concluded  unreasonably that they wouldnt have 
escalated the chargeback  any further, even if theyd received Mrs Zs correspondence. This is 
because without  the outstanding information, it would have been difficult for Barclays to have 
addressed the arguments  raised in the defence or calculated a proportionate refund for anything  other 
than the cost of the annual membership. This also suggests Mrs Zs claim didnt have a high chance 
of success. 
Mrs Z has argued she didnt receive any benefit  from the transaction  as any resources she did receive 
related to a fraudulent scheme. Her position here is understandable, but for her claim  to have 
succeeded she would  have needed to show  she didnt receive the goods or services she paid for. 
Whether the resources had any value, isnt a valid consideration under  this chargeback rule. 
Ive also considered if Barclays should have raised a claim, on the basis that any merchandise  and 
services she did receive werent  as described. However,  as the time limit for this reason code is 120 
days from receipt of the goods or the transaction processing date, she would have been out of time to 
do this. In addition, as there is no dispute that    Mrs  Z authorised the transaction, Im satisfied 
Barclays couldnt have done anything other than attempt the chargeback that they did, to try and 
retrieve the funds. 
In light of the above, whilst  I empathise with Mrs Z, I dont think Barclays should be required to cover 
the cost of the claim. However,  as Barclays communication could have been clearer, I think they 
should pay Mrs Z £250 to compensate her for the trouble  and confusion they caused her at an 
already difficult and upsetting time.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im planning on partially  upholding Mrs Zs complaint and directing 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs Z £250 compensation for the trouble  and upset  it caused.  
If Mrs Z or Barclays  Bank UK PLC have anything  further  to add they should  let me know by 7 June 
2020. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6934725