K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) withdrew his travel  insurance 
policy and wants the insurer to pay the costs  he incurred  in taking out a different policy.
background
Mr B held a yearly travel insurance policy with URV. He had planned a holiday  for 
October 2018 but, sadly, before his trip commenced was diagnosed  with bladder cancer. 
Mr Bs consultant said that his diagnosis didnt need  urgent attention  and that he didnt have 
concerns about  Mr B going on holiday. So treatment was planned for after the trip and Mr B 
contacted URV to tell it about his recent  diagnosis. 
URV decided that Mr Bs change in health represented too great  a risk to insure and said itd 
have to withdraw his cover. URV said that Mr B could cancel his holiday and claim for the 
associated cancellation  costs or accept  a full refund of the policys  premium. But Mr B still 
wanted to go ahead  with his holiday,  so he sought  insurance elsewhere and travelled as 
planned. Mr B felt that URV shouldve paid for the additional costs hed incurred in having  to 
take out insurance elsewhere so, unhappy with what had happened, approached  this 
service.
 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened and thought that Mr B had saved 
URV substantial cancellation  costs by seeking  insurance elsewhere. And under our fair and 
reasonable remit, she recommended that URV pay the difference  between the costs of the 
two policies. URV disagreed. It said the options  it gave Mr B at the time he informed it of his 
change in health were reasonable, and that it couldnt be held responsible  for Mr B not 
choosing either  of them. It said that as Mr Bs holiday had since taken place it could only 
offer to refund the policys premium now. So the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances  surrounding significant  changes  in health it isnt necessarily unfair  for an 
insurer to withdraw cover.  As it up to a business to decide which risks it is willing  to insure.  
This service takes the general approach  that, if an insurer chooses withdraws cover like it 
did here, it should offer to cover  the costs of cancelling  any booked  holiday that wouldve 
otherwise been  taken  during the intended period of cover. 
At the time Mr B informed  URV of his medical  condition, he had only been recently 
diagnosed and was still awaiting treatment. And while his consultant didnt  have concerns 
about him travelling, I dont think it was unreasonable of URV to confirm that it wasnt  in a 
position to accurately assess the risk of continuing to provide Mr B with cover.  
I can see that in this instance URV  did offer to cover  the costs  of cancelling the holiday,  and I 
think this was the right thing for it to do. Mr B chose  not to cancel his holiday however and 
told this service that the holiday  had been planned  as a trip of a lifetime  for him and his wife. 
Given the stance  that Mr Bs consultant  had taken in relation  to his recent diagnosis, I can 
understand why Mr B still wanted to go ahead  with his travel  plans.
 
Ref: DRN65620472Our investigator explained that by seeking  cover elsewhere and going ahead  with his 
holiday, Mr B reduced URVs  exposure  to loss. That was, that he didnt cancel his trip and 
make a claim for the associated costs. 
URV has highlighted that it isnt legally required to provide a consumer  with insurance and, 
in circumstances  such as these, it isnt unfair of it to withdraw cover altogether  either. While I 
dont dispute either  of these points, in reaching  a decision on this complaint I have to 
consider the fair and reasonable aspects of what has happened as well. And having done so 
I too am of the opinion that Mr B reduced URVs exposure to loss, by not making a 
cancellation claim and instead choosing to take out cover  elsewhere  and continue his trip.
The policy that Mr B had with URV at the time said it would pay:
up to £5,000 for your  proportion of prepaid:
transport charges;
loss of accommodation;
foreign car hire; and
pre-booked excursions
booked by you before you go on your trip that you have  paid or have agreed to pay, that you 
cannot recover from any other source,  following your necessary cancellation after you 
purchased this insurance resulting in your financial loss.
But because Mr B didnt  make such a claim, URV werent liable for those costs.
Mr B has told this service how much he paid for the policy he went on to take out, and it is 
less than the maximum amount he couldve received had he submitted a cancellation  claim 
to URV. So, keeping our fair and reasonable approach  in mind, I dont think itd be unfair for 
URV to pay the difference between the costs in the two policies as Mr Bs choice did, 
ultimately, reduce  URVs exposure to loss.
Therefore I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
putting things right
I recognise that URV might be disappointed by my findings, but I hope  its able to appreciate 
the position Ive taken  here and understand why I consider the above to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
URV should put things right by paying the difference  between  the cost of the original policy  it 
provided, and the cost of the policy Mr B went on to take out with another provider after URV 
withdrew its cover. 
Id consider it fair for URV to want to see evidence of what  Mr B paid for the new policy,  if it 
felt it appropriate  to do so, and I wouldnt  expect  it to pay more than the policy limit wouldve 
provided had the holiday  been cancelled. 
Ref: DRN65620473my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Union Reiseversicherung AG should put 
things right in the way that I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6562047