K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  about a car she has on finance  with Go Car Credit  Limited  (Go Car). She 
says its of unsatisfactory quality and wants to reject  it and terminate her finance  agreement.
background
In September  2018 Ms B took receipt  of a used car. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Go Car. At the point of supply  the six year old car had completed 
80,204 miles.
But Ms B experienced problems with the car.
in November 2018 the car had a repair  to its clutch 
in February 2019 Ms B told Go Car the car had needed jump starting and the engine 
management light had illuminated.  The garage said the battery was flat and there  
was a fault code suggesting a wiring problem
in March 2019 Ms B paid for a diagnostic. This highlighted that a payment reminder 
device had been fitted incorrectly and was draining the battery.  The garage also 
noted that the back brakes needed  replacing, a fog light was broken and a locking 
wheel nut key was missing.
Go Car arranged for one of the technicians, responsible for servicing the payment 
reminder devices, to look at the problem. He confirmed that it had been  wired 
correctly but noted  that the garage who diagnosed the problem had removed a wire.
the wire was refitted and it was noted  that the cars battery was now fully charged.
Go Car upheld Ms Bs complaint because they said there was a loose wire on the payment 
device. They didnt  think they needed to pay for any repairs  to the brakes or fog light or that 
theyd need to replace the locking  wheel nut key. They said these were  wear and tear items 
and the locking wheel nut key must have been there at the MOT  and had obviously been lost 
subsequently.
But Ms B was unhappy with their response  and she referred her complaint to this service for 
our investigator to provide an opinion. He thought the brake  pads; fog lights  and missing  
locking wheel nut key were problems likely  to have arisen since  the purchase of the car and 
he therefore didnt  think Go Car needed  to refund any costs  relating to them. But he did think 
there was, on balance, evidence that the payment device had been wrongly fitted  and that 
this had caused the problem with the battery discharging. He thought Go Car should 
therefore charge  or replace the battery and that some compensation was due to Ms B. He 
suggested Go Car refund  one monthly finance  instalment  and pay Ms B £150 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience shed  experienced as a result  of the issue. He also 
noted that Go Car hadnt refunded the full cost of the diagnostic report  Ms B had paid for and 
he thought it was fair to ask them to pay the outstanding £25.
Go Car agreed with the investigators opinion but Ms B didnt. She didnt think  the problem 
was related to the battery and suggested there was an underlying issue and she said shed  
had so little use of the car that the fog light, brakes and locking nut key issues  couldnt  have  
happened whilst in her possession. She said shed  been waiting far too long for a resolution 
to the matter and she asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN65497512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigators opinion.  I know that will disappoint  Miss B so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Go Car are 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Go Car to put this right. 
The car wasnt new when  Ms B took receipt of it. Itd completed 80,000 miles and was six 
years old. When  I consider whether a car was of satisfactory  quality I consider the age and 
mileage and here Id expect the car to have some  problems and to develop  problems earlier  
than a new comparable  vehicle. Thats because components may start to reach the end of 
their useful life and would be subject to more wear and tear. So I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to hold Go Car responsible for the damaged fog light; brake problems or the 
missing locking nut key. 
Im persuaded that the problem Ms B has been experiencing on her car is most likely to be 
caused by a poorly fitted payment reminder box. I say that because:
the initial garage inspection noted a fault code  that suggested a wiring problem
the diagnostic  suggested the payment protection device had been poorly wired
the wire appears to have been  already disconnected when Go Cars technician 
attended. Ive seen  no explanation of this and the garage has explained it didnt 
disconnect the wire
it seems likely to me that a poorly wired  add on device could cause battery drainage. 
Go Car accepted,  in their final response, that the issue was caused by a loose wire 
on the payment  protection device.
Ive seen that Ms B has been inconvenienced  by this issue. Shes  upset that its taken so 
long to rectify the problem and having considered  that, I agree with the investigators 
suggestion that, to compensate her, Go Car should refund a monthly finance instalment and 
pay her £150 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  the matter  has 
caused.
Ms B hasnt driven the car for a time and the battery  is discharged.  So I think  Go Car should 
arrange to attend, check  the battery and replace  or recharge as necessary. 
They should  also refund  the additional £25 that the diagnostic cost Ms B if they havent 
already done so.
Ref: DRN65497513my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Go Car Credit 
Limited to:
check the battery and recharge or replace it
refund  one monthly finance instalment in recognition of the loss of use Ms B has 
experienced
pay Ms B £150 to compensate her for the inconvenience shes  experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Bs credit  file in relation to 
this agreement since the fault was first reported in February  2019
refund  an additional  £25 for the diagnostic report if they havent already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6549751