K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs S say Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Bank of Scotland hasnt been  able to send us copies of documents  from the sale of Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage showing they chose to take the PPI. But it has sent us examples of the 
types of documents it says wouldve been used in similar sales around the time. And these 
make it clear  that the PPI is optional.
Based on the evidence  I have, and what I understand about Bank of Scotlands sales 
practices at the time, I think its likely Bank  of Scotland made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs S chose to take it, knowing they didnt 
have to.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example,  they dont appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy couldve  paid out for longer than theyve told us they 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on any 
savings they had to make their mortgage repayments if one of them wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Bank of Scotland had to give Mr and Mrs S clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ss 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs S off taking it out.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Bank  of Scotland has already 
paid this to Mr and Mrs S.
Ref: DRN67911442My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6791144