K820x#14complaint
Z, a limited company, complains that The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc provided poor service 
and caused inconvenience.
background
The director  of Z phoned RBS on 12 January 2019 and cancelled the debit card for the 
company. He was unhappy with the way he was spoken to and that there was a delay before 
a replacement was sent out. He also says he was told that he could  not withdraw money in a 
branch but in fact was able to do so. 
Our investigator did not recommend that RBS do anything more than it had already and 
which was to apologise to Z. She said that shed listened to recordings of calls with Z. RBS 
had not said in any of those that money  couldnt be withdrawn without a card.  There was a 
slight delay in the new card being  ordered but it would  always  have taken some time for a 
card to arrive.
Z did not agree  and wanted  the complaint to be reviewed. He thought the company had 
been inconvenienced and that there  should  be compensation for the rude behaviour  from a 
member of staff at RBS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint  by Z, which is a separate legal entity to the director  and cannot  suffer  
distress. The specific  problems here started with the call on 12 January 2019  which  Ive 
listened to closely.  The director was unhappy  that the member of staff could not explain to 
him why a previous request for statements had not been addressed. The member  of staff 
said on more than one occasion that he did not know  and offered to re-order  the statements. 
The director  insisted on an answer.  I heard  that there was frustration  on both sides. The 
member of staff offered to transfer the director to someone else but he did not want that. 
Towards the end of the conversation the director said that Zs card had been  lost but he 
didnt seem to want to clarify which one. The debit card was cancelled.  The call deteriorated 
further and the member  of staff terminated  it. RBS has said that this was not the level of 
service it wanted to provide and it has apologised for this.
There were a number of further calls from Z about  the card. The next day the director said 
he had found  it but RBS said it could  not be reinstated having been reported  as lost. I dont 
see any evidence the director  was told that Z could not withdraw  money in branch. It seems 
that on 16 January  2019 he was able to withdraw cash from Zs account  to pay its staff.
The card was dispatched on 17 January 2019.  That was not as fast as Z wanted and again 
RBS has issued an apology for this which  was set out in the final response letter.
RBS acted prudently in cancelling  the card for Z because it had been told that it was lost. 
There would  naturally be some delay  and inconvenience while a new card was ordered. Z 
was able to take out money. I dont  doubt that the director is unhappy about what  happened  
but Im afraid I consider  that the apology  from RBS is sufficient  to address this. As I said this 
is a complaint by Z and I cannot take into account  the impact on him personally.
Ref: DRN61986062my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc need take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6198606