K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold her a First 
Directory packaged bank  account in 2008.  She paid a monthly  fee for the account which 
provided several benefits in return.
background
Mrs H opened a fee-free  account with first direct in November 1992. It was upgraded to the 
First Directory packaged account in May 2008,  and reverted to a fee-free account in 
November 2015.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that first direct mis-sold  the packaged account to Mrs H 
and didnt recommend that first direct  should pay her any compensation. Mrs H didnt agree 
so she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Hs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Hs complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think First Directory account was mis-
sold to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs H was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  account.
The main  crux of Mrs Hs complaint is around  whether  she had a choice to upgrade her 
account. Shes explained that shed received lots of sales  calls from first direct in an attempt 
to persuade her to change her account.  She also explains that eventually she was told that 
she wouldnt  be able to continue with her fee-free account, and shes also said that the First 
Directory account was sold to her as a way to keep a fee-free account.
Id like to start by saying  that Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said  and I can 
certainly understand that companies  can be quite persistent when trying to promote  or sell 
 their products.  I dont  doubt that shed received multiple calls and its fair to say that its 
likely first direct was probably keen to sell First Directory to her. But Ive also thought about 
what Mrs H has said  and whether this means  she upgraded because she was left with no 
other choice  but to do so.
First direct offered fee-free accounts until it introduced a banking fee in February 2007. This 
was a charge  it levied for all customers banking with it, with the exception  of those who met 
certain criteria  such  as by crediting a certain  amount per month,  or holding other first direct  
products.
Ref: DRN68466882Having considered what Mrs H has said, I havent concluded that its more  likely she was 
misled into upgrading  her account. 
Mrs H had held a fee-free  account for many years with first direct.  She also held a savings 
account, so when first direct introduced its banking fee, she met the criteria to be exempt 
from paying this fee. So from February  2007 until she upgraded her account in May 2008, 
she hadnt paid the fee that, had she not met certain criteria, she wouldve paid. 
I also think its unlikely Mrs H wouldve agreed to the First Directory account  which came 
with a monthly fee and a number of benefits  in order to keep  her fee-free account, like she 
says. By signing up to an account with benefits she agreed to pay the monthly fee, and so I 
dont see why shed  have agreed to this if she was against paying a fee at all. 
On balance and having considered everything, I dont doubt that Mrs Hs recollections  about 
the numerous sales calls that she says she received. But Im not persuaded that she only 
upgraded because she was left with no other option,  or in order  to keep a fee-free account  
because fundamentally thats not what signing up to a paid-for packaged  account  offers.
Mrs H agreed  to the First Directory account during a phone  call, and given the time thats 
passed its not surprising that there  isnt much information about  that call available now. But 
first direct has provided a script that it says its staff wouldve followed during the call. I dont 
know how closely that script was followed, but I think it gives  a general idea of how the call 
wouldve been structured.  And having considered  that, I dont think  that first direct  personally 
recommended the First Directory account  to Mrs H. This means  it didnt have a detailed  
discussion about her circumstances  before selling the account.  Instead,  it had to give her 
some information about the account for her to make that decision for herself.
I dont know what was discussed during the sales call, but like our adjudicator, I think  that 
Mrs H was likely interested  in some of the benefits  of the First Directory  account and chose it 
because of these  benefits. Some of the main benefits it provided were  worldwide travel 
insurance, mobile phone  insurance, and banking benefits such  as fee-free overseas cash 
withdrawals. Less than a year after upgrade Mrs H made a travel insurance claim,  and I 
think its likely she travelled and relied on the travel insurance more than on just that 
occasion. I havent seen all of her account  transactions, but its also evident that she 
travelled in 2013, and benefited  from a fee-free cash withdrawal. So I also think  she likely 
relied on the accounts travel insurance then,  too. 
First direct also says it sent Mrs H a number of letters  in relation to her First Directory 
account over the years.  I havent seen personalised copies of those letters,  but first direct  
has provided samples of them. I can see that at least two  sent in January and April 2013  
relate to changes to the benefits of the account. They also give the option  to close the First 
Directory element, without any additional  charge. But as Mrs H held the account until 
November 2015,  I think something about it still appealed to her, and she chose to keep it, 
knowing she didnt have  to.
Its possible that first direct didnt tell Mrs H everything it should have about the packaged 
account. And I fully appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight,  she might  not feel like the 
account was good value  for money  to her. But I havent seen enough to make  me think  that 
Mrs H wouldnt  still have taken the account,  even if first direct had told her more  about it. 
Ref: DRN68466883I want to reassure Mrs H that Ive looked at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything shes said. But having  done so I dont think  first 
direct mis-sold the First Directory account  to her. So I dont think  it owes her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6846688