K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought the policy in 1998. He says he was sold the PPI by phone.  Lloyds says it cant 
say how Mr J applied for his card and PPI policy. Mr Js credit  card application form shows  
that he applied  for the PPI at the same time he applied for his card.
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a manufacturing specialist and had been there  17 years. 
He has told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full sick pay as well as 
redundancy pay. He has told us he didnt have any other means with which to make his card 
payments if he couldnt work and hes said he was financially stretched and told us he used 
the card for expenses  of daily living. He has also told us he was in good health at the time. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay 10% of Mr Js card balance for a 
successful accident,  sickness  or unemployment  claim. The life cover would, subject to its 
terms, clear the card balance on death.  The policy at the time cost 77p per £100  of the 
monthly outstanding  balance  and the premium  did attract  interest. Lloyds says the premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it has sent us evidence  to 
show that the credit card account closed in 2004.
Mr Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Js representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr J wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Js representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr J about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr J and the impact  they would  
have had on his chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mr J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr J disagreed  with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN67865672opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Js case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN67865673Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr J know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr J says he had no interest  in PPI and says it was just included  as part of the package with 
his card.  But the credit card application  form had a box to tick if PPI was wanted.  On Mr Js 
form, which he signed to take the card, this box is ticked  and I think  its apparent  that if PPI 
wasnt wanted, the box for it should  be left unticked.  Also, theres nothing on the form saying 
that the PPI had to be taken or that Mr J had to tick for the cover if he didnt want it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr J knew  the policy  was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN67865674did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it mightve provided advice during this sale. Mr J says Lloyds didnt give advice. 
But if Lloyds did give advice, Lloyds had to do more. With this in mind, I think its fair to 
proceed on the basis that Lloyds did give advice during the sale.  This means Lloyds had to 
advise Mr J with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable given  his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr J. No record is available of any discussion about the policy. Lloyds  
had some limited information about Mr Js financial  circumstances, but there is no specific  
evidence to show that Lloyds took steps  to establish whether Mr J would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  Mr J 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr J given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr J, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr J met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mr J says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-Mr J had a need  for the policy  it seems likely his ability  to continue to meet his credit  
card repayments would have been  put under strain if he were  not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits he 
was entitled to.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr J. There was 
nothing about  Mr Js employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that could 
have affected  his ability to claim. Also, there  were no additional  restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Js circumstances.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr J sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Ref: DRN67865675Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr J was given  a very broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that it would protect his card payments if he was unable 
to work due to disability  or unemployment). I have reached this conclusion because  I think  
its unlikely Mr J would have taken  the policy without any sense of what it was. Also, the 
application form he signed said the policy was to protect his payments against  the 
consequences of unemployment, sickness and accident - which  would have given Mr J 
some idea of what the policy was for. The application form also said the PPI cost 77p per 
month per £100 of balance outstanding  so Im satisfied Mr J ought reasonably to have 
understood the policy cost 77p per month per £100 of the outstanding statement balance.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr J agreed 
to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr J, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr J. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr J all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Js. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Js representative  considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr J about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr J? To what extent did Mr J suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN67865676Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr J. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr J suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr J would have 
still taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr J, Ive found that it was ultimately suitable for him. 
In those circumstances, it seems to me that whether  or not Mr J has suffered loss or damage  
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Mr J 
would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event. Mr J 
says he would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given the 
significant failings  identified above. I have  considered the representations of both sides  and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.  
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition. The evidence in this case suggests Mr J had some interest in 
taking payment protection insurance.  By this I mean,  when Lloyds offered the PPI or advised 
him there was a suitable product he could buy that would  protect  his credit card payments if 
he were unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  he concluded he 
wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what he thought  he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, from the evidence about Mr Js circumstances  at the sale,  Im satisfied 
the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Im satisfied he ought  reasonably  
to have known  he would  have to pay something  for it and that it would cover  a portion of his 
outstanding balance. But I accept Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So, 
while Mr J didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event  of a successful claim 
wasnt dissimilar  to what he reasonably wouldve  thought from the information he based his 
decision to take the policy on and found acceptable. Possibly the most significant  differences 
between what Mr J thought he had bought and what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  occurring in the first 12 months that 
Mr J knew or shouldve  known  about at the start or which  he had seen or arranged  to 
see a medical practitioner for in the 12 months  before  the policy start; and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr J wasnt a 
permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr J pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Ref: DRN67865677Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr J didnt  have any pre-existing  medical  conditions  and was in 
permanent employment.  
So, I think Mr J still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions - or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr J 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
To make a disability claim Mr J needed to be totally unable to do his job and not be doing 
any other work. I dont  think this is likely  to be too different to what he wouldve expected. 
The policy was cover for the card payments in case of unemployment, sickness  or accident, 
so it seems unlikely Mr J wouldve thought hed be able to make a successful claim if he 
were still working, whether that be in his normal job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr J would  still have taken  the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what he 
thought he was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding Mr Js employment benefits.  And in those circumstances, I consider it more  
likely than not Mr J would  have taken the policy in any event.  
Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr J would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN67865678Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in had he not 
bought the PPI. That is because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken it, Im 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mr J would still have taken the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Lloyds  should  pay 
Mr J compensation in those circumstances,  as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr J thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI.  While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr J, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr J and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6786567