K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss J are unhappy that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) have declined  a claim for 
storm damage under their home  insurance  policy. 
background
Mr L has said heavy rainfall  on the 4 and 5 October 2018 caused  water ingress around the
velux windows of the rear first storey  extension. Mr L says he contacted  Allianz on 5 October
2018 to make a claim, citing storm damage  as the cause.
On 8 October 2018 Allianz instructed a surveyor to inspect  the property. The inspection took
place on 10 October 2018  and the report concluded there was no damage  to the roof that
could be attributed  to storm damage. The report said the likely cause was a shallow pitched
roof combined with poorly fitted  flashing. The surveyor reviewed the internal damage and
concluded the nature of the damage (cracking and salting to the plaster around and near the
windows) suggested the problem had been  ongoing for some  time and likely pre-dated the
incident date.  As Mr L had also mentioned  damage  to the flooring, the surveyor also
checked the moisture readings on the floor and found nothing  of note.
Mr L strongly disagreed  with the surveyors report and arranged  for the roof to be repaired.
Mr Ls roofing expert said the problem had been caused by wind damage.  He said wind had
torn the fixings from the roofing sheets in exposed locations and this had allowed water to
gather around  the velux windows.
Our investigator considered all the submissions and reviewed  the weather conditions  around
the time of the incident. They concluded  there  hadnt  been a storm at the time in question
and thought it reasonable that Allianz had declined the claim. Mr L didnt accept the
investigators opinion  as he felt a storm was the only way to explain the amount of water that
had caused the problem.  He said that since the repairs, there had been no further  leaks and
he felt this reinforced that only a storm caused  the damage as hed had no problems before
the heavy rain.
I reviewed the complaint  and issued my provisional  findings to Mr L and Miss J, and Allianz.  
Ive copied my provisional findings below. I have  made some  small changes for the purposes 
of publication,  however  both parties have  seen my provisional decision in its entirety.  
my provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking into cases of this nature our service will generally have three main
considerations; whether a storm has occurred on or around the date of the damage  in
question; if its accepted  there was a storm, whether  the damage  caused is typical  of storm
damage, and were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage.
So, the first thing for me to consider  is whether there was a storm around  the time of the
incident date of 5 October  2018 when  Mr L reported the problem and made  his claim.
Im satisfied Mr L and Miss Js policy included cover  for storm or floods in relation to both
their buildings insurance cover (with no accidental damage) and contents cover (with
Ref: DRN65452692accidental damage).  However, Allianzs policy provides no definition  for what  is viewed as a
storm. Allianz told our investigator that usually theyd consider a storm to be along the lines
of strong  winds accompanied by heavy rainfall.
In the absence of a definition, Allianzs  approach to considering whether a storm has taken
place is broadly similar to what  other  insurers might  look at. So, I dont  find this an
unreasonable starting point.
Ive reviewed the weather reports used by Allianz  and examined  other  reports available to
me which describe  the weather a few miles from Mr L and Miss Js home. And I agree with
the investigator that around the 4 and 5 October 2018 the wind speed  and rainfall  were  not
significant enough to be considered a storm.
However, given there are submissions which refer to previous poor weather Ive also
reviewed earlier weather conditions. Having done so, its apparent that two notable  storms 
came to the UK 16 days  before  the incident.  And while Im satisfied there  was no
storm on 4 or 5 October  2018,  Ive looked at the submissions presented to see if theres
been any damage to the roof.
Im aware of Mr Ls concerns that the surveyor did not go up on to the roof to lift any of the
tile sheets, and that the surveyor referred to tiles  rather than tile sheets; however, I dont
think it automatically follows  that any confusion to do with the type of roofing material  being
used means Mr L and Miss Js complaint should  be upheld.
Allianzs surveyor and Mr Ls expert  reached different conclusions  about whether there was
any storm damage. The surveyor said, we could see no ripping or tearing to the external
fabric of the extension roof, or displacement of roofing materials,  that could be attributed to a
one off event of high winds. While Mr Ls expert  said, The damage was the result of wind
damage, which had torn the fixings out of the roofing sheets  in exposed locations.
Ive looked at the photos of the roof provided by Allianzs surveyor and while I appreciate the
fixings would  likely  be found  beneath the roof sheets, the photos show no obvious  signs of
wind damage. In the absence of any other photos  or reports  carried out prior to the repairs,
its therefore difficult for me to accept there was any storm damage to the roof and so Ive
looked at whether any other factors could have caused  the water  ingress.
The surveyors report says, The extension roof is of a very shallow pitch. The lead flashing
to the velux windows is not fitted very tightly/ flush to the tiles, resulting in gaps around the
flashing. The same  is true of the flashing where the extension roof meets the wall of the
house. It goes  on to say, The shallow pitch,  combined with the poorly fitted  flashing,  is likely
resulting in standing water  on the roof being  below  back under the fleshings during times of
wind and rain (sic). And, Internally, the nature of damage (cracking and salting to the
plaster) suggests that the matter has been  ongoing for some  time, and likely pre-dates the
reported incident date. The damage cannot  be attributed to a one off occurrence  of storm or
accidental damage.
Again, reviewing the available photos,  there is some suggestion of gapping  around  the
flashing - of which there should be none   and this seems to be supported  by the type of
materials used for the repairs by Mr Ls expert. Poorly  fitted flashing can compromise the
effectiveness of allowing water to drain  away. So over time, there is potential for water  to
work its way into the structure of a building.
Ref: DRN65452693I appreciate Mr L sent us a copy of a buildings  control letter from February 2008 that referred
to the completion  certificate for the rear storey extension (works carried  out before he bought
the house), and Im sorry it now appears more likely  than not that the roof for the extension
may not have been built as well as it should have  been.
I also cant ignore that had the two earlier notable storms been the sole and direct  cause of
the damage, then given the level of rainfall  at that time being far greater than that of 5
October 2018, it seems  reasonable  to have expected water would have worked its way
through into the property when those storms happened  as Mr L has said, he would have
reported any problem  sooner if there had been  one.
Furthermore, it would  seem the internal  damage around the velux  windows is not
insignificant and would have developed  over time.  And it seems  unlikely that the water
ingress which appeared and was reported by Mr L on 5 October 2018 (following two days of
perhaps heavier  than average rainfall, but far less than that brought by the storms)  caused
that level of damage  to the plaster  and paintwork around the windows.
Mr L and Miss J are claiming under  the storm or floods  section of their policy so this means
for the claim to be valid, the damage needed to be caused by a storm or flood. As Ive
explained above Im satisfied  there was no storm at the time of the incident so it would follow
this claim does not meet the terms of the policy to be successful. And I dont think  there  is
enough to conclusively say the storms from over a fortnight earlier can be held directly
accountable for the water  ingress. As the surveyor suggested, it seems  more likely than not
that the low pitch  roof together with some failings  in how the flashings  were fitted were the
likely cause as to what happened. And so it follows that taking everything into account I think
it was fair for Allianz to decline the claim.
Responses to my provisional findings 
Mr L responded to my provisional findings  to say he was extremely  disappointed with my 
conclusions. And he requested I consider  one point. 
Mr Ls point was there was no damage before the event and then considerable damage 
during. He felt it was therefore unlikely that all the roof seals failed at the same time to such  
a catastrophic  level. 
Allianz did not provide any further  evidence  or submissions for me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im afraid Ive not 
seen anything that would persuade me to alter my conclusions  as set out above. 
I understand why Mr L is making his point, but this is something  I have  already  considered  
when I issued my provisional findings. 
As Ive explained above, Mr L and Miss Js claim was for storm damage,  but there isnt any 
evidence to support  there was a storm at the time the water  ingress  was reported. I also 
considered the earlier  reported storms together with the surveyors report  including  photos, 
and what repairs were  carried out by Mr L and Miss Js expert.  And there wasnt  enough for 
me to conclude the earlier storms were the sole and direct cause of the damage either, so it 
Ref: DRN65452694seems likely that poor fittings  and the pitch of the roof, over time, were more  likely than not 
to have caused the water ingress.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr L and Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before15  August 2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6545269