K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
(NatWest). They complain that NatWest used an inaccurate method of valuing their property 
when they applied for a new interest rate product. They had to pay a fee to get the right 
valuation confirmed, so that they qualified for the best available rate.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly,  are that in 2019, Mr and Mrs M applied  to 
NatWest for a new mortgage  product;  theyd  been on the standard  variable  rate (SVR) since  
the expiry of their previous product. . As part of its consideration of the application, NatWest 
needed to update its valuation of the mortgaged  property.  Initially, it did this by referring to 
an internal index of changes  in property values. The new valuation  resulting from indexation 
was just over £192,000,  giving a loan-to-value  ratio (LTV) of around 82%.
Mr and Mrs M thought that was too low and appealed; NatWest agreed to send  a surveyor to 
revalue their home, charging  a fee of £352. This fee was based  on Mr and Mrs M having 
estimated the value  to be £270,000. The surveyor visited the property and formally valued 
the property at £270,000;  this produced an LTV of around 59%,  which meant  Mr and Mrs M 
were eligible  for a lower  rate. 
But they were unhappy  at the inaccuracy of the index  valuation (around 30% out) and having  
to pay a fee to get it corrected. They believe NatWest could have researched the right figure 
on line without the need to instruct a surveyor. They  also thought  NatWest  hadnt been 
transparent over the fee scale, saying that if theyd estimated the value at £250,000 (and this 
had been confirmed by the surveyor) theyd still have qualified  for the same rate, but the fee 
would have been lower.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs M have asked 
for the compliant to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have disappointing  
news for Mr and Mrs M; I dont think NatWest has done anything  wrong  either. 
A lender is entitled to use the indexation method for assessing the present value of a 
property that it already  holds as security for a debt.  However, its generally  accepted  that 
indexation isnt infallible.  Thats why, if this method produces a valuation  that the consumer 
Ref: DRN63779692thinks is unsatisfactory, I would expect  the lender to consider a request to conduct a more  
accurate assessment. Thats  precisely  what NatWest did here. 
Where that involves a professional opinion from a surveyor, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for the lender to charge a fee. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M argue that it should have been 
possible for NatWest to verify the valuation online without instructing a surveyor;  but I have 
no regulatory function. Its not within my powers to tell NatWest what methods it should  use 
for assessing property  values.
As far as the fee scale is concerned, Ive thought  hard about Mr and Mrs Ms argument, but 
overall, I dont find it persuasive.  In essence, they say that if theyd given a different answer 
to the question posed of them  theyd have been  charged a lower  fee. The fact is that 
Mr and Mrs M answered the question honestly,  according to their best estimate of what they 
believed to be true. It seems to me that the inference Im being invited to make is that if 
NatWest had told Mr and Mrs M more about  the fee scale,  they might have answered  the 
question less honestly than they did.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6377969