K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Anthony Feeney 
Financial Services to transfer his existing personal pension into a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with a view to invest in storage pods, an unregulated investment.
background
In late 2013, Anthony Feeney reviewed Mr Rs pension  arrangements.  Mr R said he was 
telephoned and asked if he wanted to review his pension options.  Mr R felt his pension 
wasnt growing by much and was prepared to consider alternative investments.  At that time,  
he had a deferred group personal  pension plan set up through his old employer with 
Provider 1 and a pension  through his current employer. His pension with Provider 1 was 
valued at around  £23,000  and was invested in its with profits  fund. 
At the time of advice,  Mr R was in his mid-fifties, living with his partner in rented 
accommodation and earning around £21,000 per year. His partner wasnt  working. Three  of 
his children were still dependant on him. 
Anthony Feeney assessed Mr R as having a speculative attitude to risk. Although it was 
noted he had very little knowledge and experience of investments and understood the basics 
of his pension.  He said his highest  priority  was the financial security of the pension  
scheme. When asked to what extent  he was happy with the investment performance of his 
current scheme he rated it at 4 on a sliding scale of 1-5 with 1 being not at all and 5 being  
very. 
Anthony Feeney recommended Mr R switch his existing personal  pension to a SIPP  so your 
pension assets  can be invested within a SIPP which permits  investment in wider  range of 
investments including, shares, unit trusts  and property.  Mr R accepted Anthony Feeneys 
advice.
In December 2013, Mr R transferred  his pension fund of around £23,400 into a SIPP with 
Provider 2. In February 2014, £11,250 was invested into storage pods. In March 2014, Mr R 
took a Pension  Commencement Lump  Sum (PCLS) of around  £5,400.  He invested around 
£4,200 into another investment.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Rs complaint  and recommended it should  be upheld. She said:
given the modest  size of Mr Rs pension plan, the associated costs  of the advice and 
setting up the new SIPP  meant  it was uneconomical to have  switched his pension.
the existing  policy had a wide range of investments  to choose from, so alternative  
investments, including commercial property,  couldve  been considered without 
moving to a SIPP.
investing such a large  proportion  of Mr Rs pension in unregulated storage pods was 
unsuitable given  Mr Rs circumstances. She felt it was illiquid  and too high risk for his 
circumstances. She thought Anthony Feeney shouldve recommended against 
making such an investment.
Anthony Feeney disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN65735202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
Anthony Feeney prepared a fact find report for Mr R. It said his attitude  to risk was 
Speculative, which was described as:
You are willing to obtain considerable exposure to individual  equities, or highly 
specialised investments, in return for the potential to receive significant returns. In doing 
so you understand  that you risk losing the invested  capital.
It also included a hand written comment saying:-
I realise  I have  to be speculative  with my pension in order  to receive high rewards which I
am happy to do
The section regarding  investment knowledge  and experience noted that Mr R had no - or 
very little  experience or understanding of investment  markets.  Although  again there was 
a handwritten comment saying:-
I have  no investment knowledge but like the idea of fixed  returns  offered by 
commercial property purchase.
Mr Rs primary objective  seemed to be to improve the performance  of his existing 
pension fund because  it wasnt growing much in excess of the charges. 
Anthony Feeney recommended that Mr R transfer his existing pension  benefits  to allow  
him to invest in a wider range of investments.  Under the Investment Strategy heading  in 
this report, it said:
"You have sought my advice regarding the setting up of a Sipp by transferring the funds 
of the Pension  schemes listed above with the intention of investing  in commercial 
property, specifically [named] Storage  Pods."
I agree  with the adjudicator, in the absence of any compelling reasons, it wouldnt normally 
be considered  appropriate  to set up a SIPP with such a modest amount. I cant see that 
Mr R had to transfer his fund into a SIPP  to invest in commercial property. There  was no 
charge to switch  within his existing fund. The charges were recorded  as 1%. There  was a 
broad fund range, including commercial property.  I cant see that he was told what other 
funds he couldve invested  in, in his existing  scheme.
Mr R was asked in the fact find to what extent he was happy  with the level of charges 
imposed on his current scheme. He rated  this at 3 on the 1-5 scale  above.  This was the 
lowest rating he gave. So, it seems that it was important to him to keep the charges down. 
In the first year, the costs incurred by Mr R for advice, set up and purchasing  the storage 
pods was 13.66% of the total transfer value. Ongoing fees were 1% for the SIPP  plus any 
additional charges for the investments. So, by comparison the existing policy  was not 
expensive and it also offered a wide range of investment choices, including commercial  
property. Given the modest size of his fund, the set up costs  seemed disproportionate and 
not in keeping with Mr Rs objective of keeping costs down.
Ref: DRN65735203Mr R took a PCLS soon  after transferring.  But, I cant see that this was a priority.  In the 
fact find questionnaire, Mr R commented that a lump sum would be nice, but the main aim 
of the pension [sic] to provide income  upon retirement.  Ive also taken into account that 
Mr R said he was contacted about his pension.  He didnt actively seek  out advice with a 
view to taking a cash lump sum.  So, I cant see that Mr Rs transfer  decision was based on 
being able to get a PCLS.
The Fact Find report recorded that:
"You have not sought my advice regarding the suitability of this investment and have 
stated that you are an experienced investor and as such understand the additional risks 
associated with such an investment."
In January 2013, (months before this advice)  the FSA published an alert.  This was 
about advice given on pension transfers,  with a view to investing in unregulated  
products. So, this covered Mr Rs situation. That alert said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice generally requires consideration 
of the other  investments held by the customer or, when advice is given  on a product 
which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall position,  that is, the wrapper and the 
underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear  to 
financial advisors that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy  the customer  is contemplating.  
Based on the information presented to Anthony Feeney, its hard to see how Mr R might 
be classified as an experienced investor. Mr R was noted to be a speculative 
investor. Ive not seen  a risk questionnaire assessing his level of risk. And, like the 
adjudicator, I think given his wider  circumstances, his limited  means,  the fact he had no 
other savings or assets except for his current employers pension  scheme  and his very 
limited investment experience, this is unlikely to have  been a fair assessment of his 
situation.
Anthony Feeney was aware  of the intended  investments.  Anthony Feeney ought 
properly to have  been taking into account Mr Rs wider investment strategy when it 
considered his overall position. I cant see that Anthony Feeney properly did this. It did 
include some  information about the storage pod providers  in the fact find report. And it 
obtained a signed letter from Mr R in April 2014,  saying that he had taken advice 
regarding the other  investment. 
Mr R invested over 60% of his portfolio in an unregulated investment. The FSAs Good and 
poor practice  report of 2010  said good proactive advice involved balancing the portfolios 
risk tolerance with the customers  overall  attitude  to risk and their needs and objectives. 
It seems  to me that Mr R was exposed to significantly more  investment risk than the 
Fact Find report made clear, and that was suitable  given his circumstances,  risk 
attitude, needs and objectives.  I agree with our adjudicator, I cant  see that Mr R 
understood or that it was explained clearly enough to him the risk he was taking on. 
I think for the reasons explained  above,  had Mr R been given more  suitable advice 
and clearer information  in the Fact Find report he wouldnt  have transferred into the 
Ref: DRN65735204SIPP and invested  in the way he did. I think he has lost because  of what  Anthony  
Feeney did wrong.  I also consider that he has because caused some  trouble and 
upset as a result of Anthony Feeneys  actions.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close  as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
advice.
I think Mr R would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr R's circumstances  and objectives when  he invested.
what should Anthony Feeney do?
To compensate Mr R fairly  Anthony  Feeney  should:
Compare the performance of Mr Rs investment with that of the benchmark  
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Anthony Feeney should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, it should pay this into Mr Rs pension  plan,  to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. It shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Anthony  Feeney is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Rs pension plan, 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Rs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
For example, if Mr R is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr R would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should  
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Anthony Feeney should  pay Mr R £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
It should provide  details of this calculation  to Mr R in a clear and simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Anthony  Feeney consider 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
Ref: DRN65735205interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  date)additional 
interest
Mr Rs 
pensionstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment  is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil, to arrive at fair compensation. Anthony  
Feeney should  take ownership  of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial  
value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Anthony Feeney is unable to purchase  the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr R 
provides an undertaking to pay you any amount he may receive from the investment  
in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Anthony  Feeney will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  
Anthony Feeney should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 
12 to 17 months maturity  as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each 
month is that shown as at the end of the previous  month. Apply those rates  to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
The Pension Commencement Lump Sum should  be deducted from the fair value  at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the calculation from 
that point on. Any further tax free cash accrual  should be taken account  of however.
Ref: DRN65735206five year SIPP fees
The SlPP only exists because of the unregulated storage  pod investment. In order for the 
SlPP to be closed  and further SIPP  fees prevented, this investment needs to be 
removed. But if Anthony Feeney cant buy it, Mr R is faced  with future SIPP  fees. I think it 
is fair to assume five years of future  SlPP fees. So, if Anthony  Feeney cant  buy the 
investment, it should pay an amount equal  to five years  of SIPP  fees based on the 
current tariff.  This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the 
investment.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr R wanted increased  fund growth, so I think  it likely that he wouldve switched 
investments within his original scheme.  But he only had capacity for a small risk to 
his capital as this pension, along  with his current employers scheme, were his only 
assets.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income  total return index)  is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher 
return.
 I consider that Mr Rs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the
50/50 combination  would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr R would  have  invested 50% of his money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly  reflects  the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  against  Anthony Feeney Financial Services.  I order  it to pay Mr R 
fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573520