K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited  (Fairmead)  unfairly declined cover  and 
voided two policies when they made  claims following a fire.
background
Mr S owns  two adjoining properties and insured  them with Fairmead.  Hed purchased the 
properties with the intention of redeveloping,  either by demolishing the properties or 
renovating them. 
While awaiting  planning permission, both properties were damaged by a fire. Mr S submitted 
claims to Fairmead. After making enquiries,  it declined both claims and voided  both of the 
policies. It said that when the policies  had been taken out, it had been  told that the 
properties were in a good state  of repair, but this wasnt the case.  When it voided the 
policies, it refunded the premiums paid for them.
Mr S complained to Fairmead about this. He argued  the properties  werent  in a poor state of 
repair. Fairmead rejected  their complaint. It said that photos of the properties  from before 
they were purchased by Mr S showed holes in the walls and ceilings, and planning 
permission had been applied for which would involve demolishing the properties.
As he remained dissatisfied, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
didnt think Fairmead  had acted fairly. She noted that the phone  call which Fairmead  was 
relying on, where it said it was told the properties  were in a good state of repair,  had been  
made by Mr S business partner, Mr M. Mr S hadnt  been asked about this himself.  
Fairmead didnt respond to our investigators view,  so Mr S complaint has come to me to 
make a final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Our investigator didnt  think Fairmead  was entitled to rely on any misrepresentation made  by 
Mr M when  the policy was taken out. I dont agree with this. I note from the correspondence 
with both Fairmead and our service, Mr S has never suggested that Mr M wasnt  acting with 
his authority and knowledge of the circumstances. Hes also not suggested  at any point that, 
if hed been asked about the condition of the properties, hed have said they werent in a 
good state of repair.
Having listened  to calls made by Mr M when the policy  was being set up, he describes the 
properties as having been bought  by their business. Other  than asking for the policy to be in 
Mr S name and for him to be contacted  about  payment of the premium, Mr M gave no 
indication that he was not authorised by Mr S to give details about  the properties  or provide 
information to enable insurance  cover  to be provided. And similarly, Mr S didnt say, when he 
was phoned to give payment details, that Mr M wasnt  acting with his authority.
Its important,  I think, that Mr M was connected to the business which had purchased  the 
properties. As a result, its reasonable for him to know about the condition of them, and so 
Ref: DRN66392532for Fairmead  to rely on the answers  he gives about  the properties  as being a reasonable 
disclosure of the facts.  
So Im satisfied that Fairmead  was entitled  to have assumed that Mr M was acting with Mr S 
authority when he gave information about the properties. So I now need to consider whether 
information was misrepresented  when  the policy was taken out.
I need to take into account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation)  Act 
2012 (CIDRA), even though these properties had been purchased by Mr S and Mr Ms 
business with the aim of redeveloping them. Mr S was the only named policyholder, and so 
Im satisfied that hes a consumer as defined by CIDRA. 
CIDRA puts an obligation on consumers  to take reasonable  care not to misrepresent when 
they enter into a consumer insurance  contract. The act says if the consumer fails to meet 
their obligation  not to misrepresent the insurer has a remedy against the consumer if it can 
show that without  the misrepresentation it would not have entered  into the contract at all, or 
would have done so only on different terms. This is what the Act describes as a Qualifying 
Misrepresentation. 
While it hasnt referenced CIDRA  in its correspondence with Mr S, Fairmead voided the 
policies and refunded the premiums. This is a method of redress  available  to insurers  under 
the terms of CIDRA.  
It isnt disputed that when Mr M was asked whether the properties were  in a good  state  of 
repair. Mr M said yes. Fairmead says this wasnt accurate, as photos taken before Mr S 
bought the properties  showed damage to the walls  and ceilings of the properties.  It also 
relied on media reports following the fire which suggested that the properties were  in a poor 
state of repair  for some  time before the fire. Mr S disputes that the condition of the properties  
was misrepresented. He says that Mr Ms agreement that they were in a good state of repair 
was a proper reflection  of the circumstances.
Both Fairmead and Mr S have sent in photos  of the properties in support of their respective 
positions. The photos sent in by Mr S only show the exterior  of the property, while  the photos 
provided by Fairmead  show the interior and the exterior.
The photos  of the exterior do not, in my opinion, give any grounds  for concern about the 
condition of it. While the windows are boarded up, it was known  that the properties were  
unoccupied so its unsurprising that this was the case. There are also fence panels missing  
and the rear gardens are overgrown. But this alone doesnt suggest  to me that the properties 
werent in a good state of repair.
The photos  of the interior show that there  are holes in a number of the walls  and ceilings, 
evidence of damp and mould in rooms and fittings  have been  removed. I dont think it can be 
disputed from these  photos that the properties  would have required a fairly  significant 
amount of works  before  they could be lived in. Theres no suggestion that the properties had 
been renovated  or changed in any way after the photos were taken but before the policy was 
taken out.
Fairmeads position is that a good state of repair  refers to a property which  could be lived in 
immediately or with only a small amount of repairs or decoration. I think this is a reasonable 
interpretation. I cant agree that the condition  of the properties as shown in the photographs 
is consistent with what Fairmead would class  as a good state of repair.
Ref: DRN66392533So Im satisfied that Fairmead  has demonstrated that the condition  of the property was 
misrepresented. And its provided guidelines showing  that, where a property isnt in a good 
state of repair, it doesnt provide cover. And so it follows that if the trued  condition  of the 
property had been disclosed,  Fairmead wouldnt have sold the policies.
Having established  this is the case,  Fairmead  has voided the policies and refunded  the 
premiums. This is what CIDRA says it can do. Its accepted  that the misrepresentation was 
made carelessly, rather than deliberately or recklessly. Im satisfied Fairmead  has acted 
reasonably in the circumstances.
the response to my provisional  decision
Fairmead said it had nothing further  to add to the provisional decision. 
Mr S disagreed with the decision. His solicitors  maintained that the properties were  in a good 
state of repair, requiring  only minor  works before they could be lived in. And they said that 
the definition relied on by Fairmead for a good  state of repair should be stated within  the 
policy terms and conditions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Fairmead nor Mr S have commented  further  about my provisional findings around 
whether Mr M was acting  with his authority. So I dont intend to comment any further  on this 
point.
There are two points I need  to consider  further  in light of the submissions  made on Mr S 
behalf by his solicitors.  The first is whether  Fairmeads definition  of a good  state  of repair  is 
fair. And if so, I then need to consider  whether the properties were in such  a condition  at the 
time of the policy being taken out.
Mr S solicitors have asked for evidence that the definition relied on by Fairmead, that a good 
state of repair  means a property which could be lived in, albeit potentially  requiring some 
minor works  or cosmetic  decoration, is contained within the policy terms and conditions. I 
dont think this is required here. The question about  whether the property  was in a good 
state of repair  was asked as part of the sales process, and a positive answer to this question 
was required in order for the policy  to be sold. I dont think that this definition, in these 
circumstances, needs to be contained in the terms and conditions of the policy.
What is clear is that within the sales call, no further detail about what a good state of repair  
entails were put to Mr M. And so in this case,  I need  to consider whether the definition relied 
on by Fairmead can be assumed from the ordinary meaning of good state of repair.  
Im satisfied that a reasonable interpretation  of good state of repair  would be that, with 
minor works,  a property would be inhabitable. And so Im satisfied that the definition  
Fairmead seeks to rely on is reasonable.
So I now need to consider  whether the evidence available  suggests  the properties  could be 
lived in with minor works or cosmetic  decoration being carried  out. In support of his position,  
Ref: DRN66392534Mr S solicitors have provided  a statement from an architectural technologist who had been 
to the properties,  and also a quotation from a contractor to carry out works which were 
considered necessary in order to make the properties inhabitable.
The architectural technologist refers to the properties as being in a good state of repair 
generally, with works required to kitchen units and new flooring to be laid. The quotation for 
works lists some plastering being required,  redecoration being needed throughout, some 
bathroom fittings being required, and carpets and flooring needing to be laid throughout. The 
statement from the architectural technologist refers  to photos having been taken of the 
properties, but these havent been  provided  to me in order  to compare to the photos  relied  
on by Fairmead and referred to in my provisional decision.
I note the further  evidence  which has been provided  in support of Mr S position but this 
doesnt change  my opinion on whether the properties  were in a good state of repair. I think  
that the extent  of the works being indicated as being required in order to make  the properties  
inhabitable goes  beyond  minor works and cosmetic decoration.  The photos Ive seen  show a 
number of large holes  in walls and ceilings.  Neither the architectural technologist, nor the 
contractor, has made  any comment on these, beyond saying that re-plastering will be 
required in some rooms.  
Im remain  satisfied based on the photos I have available that the extent of the works 
needed to make the properties suitable to be lived in goes  beyond  cosmetic decoration and 
minor works.  And as thats the case,  I also think that the condition  of the property  was 
misrepresented when Mr M agreed it was in a good  state of repair.  
As Fairmead  has demonstrated that it wouldnt have sold the policy if the properties  werent  
in a good state of repair, and Im satisfied  that the condition of the properties was 
misrepresented, I cant say its done  anything wrong when it voided the policies and 
refunded the premiums  paid.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6639253