K821x#15complaint
Miss D is unhappy how Capital One (Europe)  plc dealt with an enquiry on her credit card 
account.
background
Miss D had a credit  card account with Capital One. She contacted  the bank to ask how much  
interest was going  to be charged the next month.  But she was told the wrong amount. 
Capital One also said she could apply for a consolidation credit  card at a lower rate. And it 
wouldnt affect her credit  score. But Capital One didnt say her application might not be 
accepted.
Miss Ds application  wasnt successful. And it did affect her credit  score.  So she felt badly  
advised. Miss D said the £25 compensation offered  wasnt enough in the circumstances. 
She wants her interest charges waiving  for the month in question.
Capital One confirmed the correct  interest  had been  charged. But its service  hadnt been of 
the right standard. Its agent  should have advised Miss D that it couldnt guarantee her 
application would be successful. And it shouldnt  have said there  wouldnt be any impact  on 
her credit file - the application  would show as a search. So it credited £25 to Miss Ds 
account for its poor service.
Miss D wasnt  satisfied  with Capital Ones response. So she contacted  our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He thought the business couldve provided a better  level 
of service. But it wasnt reasonable  to ask them to waive the interest  applied  to the account. 
He could see Miss D had lost the opportunity to consider other  options.  So he felt Capital 
One needed to do more  to put things right. He said Capital One should remove  the 
application for credit thatd been  placed  on Miss Ds credit file. And it should  pay an 
additional £50 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss D didnt agree. The amount didnt compensate her for the inconvenience, stress  and 
delays shed experienced. And her ability to get further credit had been  affected. So shes  
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating this mustve  been  for Miss D. She wanted to know how 
much interest she was due to pay on her credit card so she could decide whether to make a 
partial or full payment.  But she was given  a misleading figure. And her application for a new 
credit card affected her credit score even though Capital One said it wouldnt. So Ive looked 
carefully at everything  thats happened. And what more, if anything, Capital One needs  to do 
to put things right.
I can see from Miss Ds November statement  the estimated interest  for the following month 
was £98.58. Miss D made a £1000 payment just before the final amount was calculated. And 
the actual sum charged on her December statement was £93.10. 
Ref: DRN68372932But Miss D had spoken to Capital One and was told approximately £50 would be charged.  
She says she mightve applied for a different card if shed  known  what the actual interest  
figure was going  to be. But I cant be sure whether Miss D wouldve been  able to obtain 
better terms elsewhere. And I dont know why her application  for a lower-rate card with 
Capital One was declined. Or what  has affected  Miss Ds recent applications for other credit.
So while I can understand her upset that she was given the wrong interest  figure I cant  say 
for sure that Miss D wouldve been  able to do anything  differently. And I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Capital  One to waive the interest  charged that month. 
Capital One did recommend a lower-rate  credit  card account to Miss D. But it wrongly told 
her that applying wouldnt affect  her credit file. And it didnt make it clear  her application 
might not be accepted.
Capital One has accepted  it made mistakes. And its paid £25 compensation  to Miss D. But I 
agree with our investigator that it needs to do more  to put things right. I do think Capital One 
should remove the application  for credit from Miss Ds credit file. She made the application 
after Capital One wrongly advised her that her credit file wouldnt be affected. 
Miss D was charged the correct interest on her December statement. And her previous 
statement did indicate what  the amount was likely to be. But Miss D was given  misleading  
information by Capital One when  she rang for confirmation. I cant be sure what  alternatives 
Miss D mightve been able to pursue. But I do think Capital  One should  compensate  her for 
the misleading information  and advice she was given. 
Its important to realise its not the role of this service to punish Capital One for its mistakes.  
We award what we think is fair and reasonable. I dont underestimate the upset  this has 
caused Miss D. So I dont think Capital Ones £25 credit in December for the distress and 
inconvenience goes  far enough. 
I realise Miss D will be disappointed with this outcome. But, taking everything  into account 
including the level of awards this service normally makes, I think a further £50 compensation 
for her trouble and upset  is fair and appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should:
Remove the application  for credit from Miss Ds credit file
Pay Miss D £50 compensation in addition to the £25 already paid
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6837293