K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that the Bank of Scotland  Plc (Halifax) closed her account  without  notice or 
good reason.  She also had complaints about other service issues, and as matters 
progressed she raised further concerns. 
background
On the 28 February  2019 Halifax wrote to Ms S to tell her that they were  closing her account. 
She feels this was due to the number of disputes  and complaints she had made. She was 
also concerned  about  other issues, those being;  Halifax would share her information with 
other banks;  her details  would be added to CIFAS; she was told she could move her account 
to another bank  using the Current Account Switching Service  (CASS) but when she tried she 
couldnt; and despite being  told pending payments would be unaffected by blocks on her 
account, they were.
Halifax said that it had undertaken  a review of their records and decided  that Ms S no longer 
met their banking criteria.  As a result  they decided to close her account in accordance with 
the terms and conditions. They issued a 60 day notice to Ms S, with effect from the 
28 February 2019, advising her to make alternative banking arrangements. They  
acknowledged they had placed blocks on her account as part of the closing process,  but 
said her debit card refunds would be unaffected. Regarding switching her account  they had 
no record telling her she could use the seven day switching service,  but that the blocks  on 
the account would prevent that anyway. They confirmed that they had not added  her details 
to CIFAS, but they had shared information about  her with credit  reference agencies.
Halifax could not identify any service failings other than Ms S had been  given  incorrect 
information about the complaints process. Because of that, Halifax paid Ms S £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience, and also £12 to cover the costs  of her telephone call.
Ms S was unhappy  with Halifaxs response  and told our investigator she had further  
complaints, those being; she hadnt received a final response letter; tax had been deducted 
from credits applied to her account;  she had to go into the branch with her ID documents 
which was inconvenient; shed had to wait for over an hour in branch to get her funds; 
Halifax had refused to take any further complaints; and they refused to deal with a dispute 
between her and PayPal. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Halifax  had done anything wrong. 
Ms S disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide. What I need  
to decide is whether Halifax has acted  fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Ms S. 
The first issue is the closing of her account.  It isnt the role of this service to tell a business 
generally what its banking  criteria  should  be. Businesses are entitled to review  the operation  
Ref: DRN63327252of customers accounts against the criteria  they set and the terms and conditions applicable 
to that account.  This isnt something I can ask them to change. 
I am satisfied that Halifax have acted fairly,  since they reviewed  Ms Ss account  in line with 
the terms and conditions and then decided  that she did not meet  their criteria. I know this 
has made Ms S unhappy, and I can understand why. But Halifax is entitled to come  to that 
view, and just because Ms S doesnt  agree with it doesnt make it unfair. Halifax also gave 
Ms S 60 days notice, explaining  the conditions for the deposit and withdrawal of money 
going forward. It also follows that having made the decision to close  her account, it was 
reasonable to place  blocks on it, and Ive seen no evidence that this affected  any pending 
payments. And it was in line with the terms and conditions. 
Ive considered Halifaxs requirement that Ms S attend a branch in person. I accept  was 
inconvenient, especially  as Ms S has mobility issues, but it is part of the closing process and 
it is necessary. I note Ms S is able to make other appointments despite her mobility 
difficulties, so I cant say Halifax have acted unfairly. I also recognise that it must have been 
frustrating for Ms S to have had to wait for over an hour when in the branch, but I dont find 
that to be unreasonable. Halifax needed  to carry out their checks and closing procedures  to 
ensure everything  was done correctly. 
Halifax have confirmed that Ms Ss details have not been reported to CIFAS  and I am 
satisfied they havent,  since there is no evidence to say they have. I am also satisfied that 
Halifax has acted properly  in sharing  Ms Ss information with credit reference  agencies. That 
is common practice and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
I know Ms S says she did not receive  the final response letter,  and I have no reason to doubt 
her, but I equally have  no reason to doubt  that it was sent to the address Halifax  had in their 
records. I have also seen  that Halifax have accepted it did not raise a dispute regarding 
Paypal, but I dont  think their response was unreasonable,  given that Ms S used Paypal to 
purchase the goods. So again I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
Halifax has explained that the account  they made the rewards payments to was not the sort 
of account on which they were  able to claim the tax back. It follows  that any issue  Ms S has 
arising out of that is her responsibility to take up with HMRC. Whilst I understand why Ms S 
would believe otherwise, especially as she isnt a tax payer, Im satisfied  that her account 
was as Halifax describe,  meaning it is for her to approach HMRC.
I also agree  with our investigator regarding the advice  and information  given to Ms S. There 
is no evidence that Ms S was wrongly  advised. I acknowledge Halifax refused  to accept any 
more complaints, and given the nature and volume  of those issues already  raised by Ms S I 
think Halifax acted reasonably since they were  able to address her concerns overall.
I have thought about the compensation Halifax made to Ms S for their accepted  poor 
service, and I think that this is reasonable too. It is in line with the awards  this service would 
make for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think  it is fair.
 
I know Ms S will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  So, Im not satisfied that Halifax has treated Ms S 
unfairly, and so Im not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN63327253my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6332725