K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy Virgin Money plc (Virgin) didnt provide her with information she said she 
needed to make a balance  transfer. Shes also unhappy with the amount of interest  being  
charged, and has said she was unaware  of the interest because  Virgin  didnt send her 
statements.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019, an extract of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. And I asked  both parties  to send  me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision. 
Virgin didnt respond. But Mrs L disagreed with my findings, and she re-iterated several 
points in response to my provisional decision, which Ive re-considered below. 
So Im now issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments already sent to us, in addition to 
any new points raised, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs L has re-iterated some of the points she raised  
previously. Im sorry Mrs L doesnt think Ive taken her concerns into account  but although I 
know she will be disappointed, I still dont think her complaint  should  be upheld.  I do want  to 
reassure Mrs L, while I may not have  commented  on each point she raised individually, I 
have listened  to everything shes  said. 
Mrs L said she was told during a phone call her card expiry date couldnt be given  to her, 
either in writing or verbally.  But Virgin did send her the expiry date in writing   and within a 
reasonable timeframe. Mrs L has also said, as far as she was concerned,  her complaint 
remained open  and she wanted  to receive  a response to her concerns before making a 
balance transfer.  But this was Mrs Ls choice, and I think she still had the option of arranging  
a balance transfer while her complaint was ongoing.  So this doesnt persuade  me Virgins 
actions led to her not being able to transfer her balance elsewhere.
And I appreciate Mrs Ls frustration at not being  able to find another  0% credit card, but I 
dont think its unfair  for Virgin to charge  interest  or record  any missed payments  while 
there was an ongoing  complaint. Mrs L chose not to make any payments while her complaint 
was ongoing,  and Virgin is entitled to record this.
I understand Mrs L says she has never seen the terms and conditions, but despite this they 
would still apply to her credit card  and when Ive looked at whether Virgin applied them 
fairly, Im satisfied it has. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Virgins actions  didnt prevent Mrs L from making  her balance 
transfer  I think it applied interest  fairly  and acted  in-line with the terms and conditions  of 
her account.  And I think Virgin is entitled  to record any missed payments on her credit  file. 
So, having  re-considered everything  thats  been  sent to me, I still dont think  Virgin has done  
anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN65229962my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65229963extract of provisional decision
background
Mrs L took out a credit card with Virgin  in 2015.  In January 2019 she called Virgin to ask for her card 
expiry date, which she said she needed to transfer her balance elsewhere. Mrs L has said Virgin 
wouldnt provide this information either over the phone or by post  leaving her unable  to transfer her 
balance at the time.  Shes also unhappy with the amount of interest shes been charged, which she 
said she noticed after recently reviewing her monthly statements online.
Virgin issued Mrs L with two separate responses; one addressing her point about  the expiry date and 
the other about the lack of statements and interest. Virgins first response provided the card expiry  
date and acknowledged it could have been given  to Mrs L over the phone.
But due to security concerns  it said it hadnt done anything wrong in not giving it earlier.
The second  says that Mrs L has had access  to online statements since 2015  and whilst it doesnt 
cover why she was being charged interest, it explains she would have  been able to access  her 
statements online, which include details  of her interest rate.
Our investigator was satisfied with Virgins reasons for not providing the card expiry date over the 
phone. She said Mrs L had online statements and had accessed  her account  online  previously. She 
thought Virgin had applied interest fairly, in-line  with the terms and conditions  of the account.
Mrs L didnt agree, in summary she said she was refused information that would have  allowed her to 
pay off the credit card. Shes also said she didnt  receive  any communication about  the account,  and 
was unaware  her promotional 0% interest rate had ended. She wasnt able to access her account 
online and was unaware of the amount of interest being charged.  Additionally, Mrs L is unhappy  
Virgin didnt suspend interest whilst her complaint  was ongoing.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
request for her card expiry  date
Virgins entitled to take reasonable precautions  to protect its customers and itself. I can see that its 
apologised for not providing Mrs L with the information  she asked for during the telephone call. Virgin  
confirmed the card expiry date in writing around a week  later.
I appreciate Mrs L would  have  been frustrated  by having to wait to receive  the expiry date.
But I dont think this delay  had any significant impact on her.
Mrs L told us she had a two week window  to complete  a balance transfer for a 0% rate elsewhere.  
The expiry date of her credit  card was provided  in writing  a few working  days after Mrs L had 
requested it, which still allowed enough time for her to apply for a balance transfer  within the window  
she specified.  So I dont  think Virgin prevented Mrs L from completing  her balance  transfer.
statements and the interest Virgin has applied
Mrs L says she was unaware of how much interest was being charged,  or that her
0% promotional rate had ended.  She says she didnt  receive statements or any correspondence to 
notify her that shed exceeded her credit limit. Ive seen  that Mrs L chose to have online statements  
so Virgin hasnt  done  anything wrong  by not sending out paper statements. Mrs L said that she had 
problems accessing  the account online, and feels this is supported by her only logging in twice, in 
2015 and 2017. But Ive not seen anything to show Mrs L attempted to log in at other times.  So I think 
its more likely  she could have checked her statements at any time, but chose not to. And if Mrs L was 
having issues  logging  in, she couldve spoken to Virgin to resolve them  but I cant see that this 
happened.
Ref: DRN65229964It appears Virgin has always  charged the contractual interest on any purchases Mrs L has made on 
the card.  Ive not seen anything to make me think purchase interest has been applied  incorrectly. In 
2017 Mrs L exceeded her credit limit, which  caused  her existing 0% promotional interest rate (for 
balance transfers)  to end. It is set out in the credit card terms and conditions that Virgin  can do this. 
For these  reasons, Im satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong in the interest it has applied to her 
account.
Mrs L has said she wasnt  aware of the level of interest being applied.  But statements are enough to 
keep consumers  up to date with the status of their account. Mrs Ls statements set out the amount of 
interest thats being charged, and the rates being applied  to the outstanding balance. So because  its 
likely Mrs L could have accessed her account online, or could have done more to raise  any potential  
log-in issues if she was having trouble, I think
Virgin did enough to bring the fact that interest was being charged  (and how much) to her attention.
potential financial  difficulty and damage  to Mrs Ls credit file
Mrs L said she told Virgin  she wouldnt make any payments until her dispute was resolved.
Shes unhappy her credit  rating  appears  to have been damaged as a result of not making payments. 
Shes said she cant find another 0% credit  card which  she can transfer her balance to.
Ive seen nothing that suggests Mrs L was advised  or encouraged not to make payments, so
I think  she chose to take this course  of action herself. The terms of the agreement  with Virgin are 
clear that at least the minimum payment must be paid. As Mrs L has chosen  not to make payments,  it 
is entitled to record this information on her file.
Mrs L said shes now having  some  financial  difficulties  and is unable to clear  the credit  card balance  
in full. Ive seen that Virgin  has previously assisted Mrs L  when  she was in short term difficulty in 
2017  by freezing interest and charges for a short period and setting  up a repayment plan. I would 
expect Virgin to explore  ways it could treat Mrs L fairly now she is struggling again.  Mrs L may wish to 
contact Virgin directly  to discuss  the best way to repay the outstanding  balance,  as I cant see that 
shes told it about her current situation.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Virgin has done anything wrong.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6522996