K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that FCE Bank Plc wouldnt let him reject a faulty  vehicle.
Background
In September  2017 Mr K acquired a new truck funded with a hire purchase agreement. In 
early May 2018 it broke down and it was towed to a local dealer which  was unable to assist 
and the truck was taken to another dealer. It was unable to offer Mr K a suitable courtesy 
vehicle and FCE agreed to cover  the cost of the hire of one that met Mr Ks needs.
It took some three months to repair the truck. During that time it was damaged and some 
parts were  stolen. Mr K also noticed  some  additional  damage  which  was later repaired. In 
late August the truck broke down again  and Mr K paid for it to be towed back  to the dealer.  
He said that he had only driven  some  2,715 miles since the first repair  and he asked that he 
be allowed to reject it. FCE refused.  It said it had run satisfactorily for eight months  and had 
covered 14,000 miles.
The car was repaired  and a new gearbox fitted. This took some seven weeks. FCE offered 
to reimburse Mr K cost of hiring  a vehicle which amounted to £2,800. Later  it also offered to 
reimburse 50% of five months repayments. More recently Mr K says he had to take the truck 
in for further repairs. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. 
She referred  to the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) which says, amongst other things, if a 
fault is identified  within the first 30 days,  a consumer  has the right to reject the vehicle. After 
30 days the finance company must  be provided the opportunity  to repair  the fault  if the 
fault is found to have  been present or developing  at the point of supply. If the repair  is 
unsatisfactory a consumer is then allowed to reject the vehicle.
She noted the fault occurred after 30 days. She didnt think a new and relatively expensive 
vehicle should  require a new gearbox in under a year and when it had been driven some 
14,000 miles. She was satisfied that this indicated the car had an inherent fault at inception. 
She said the CRA allowed  the dealer one attempt to repair the truck  and if that failed Mr K 
was entitled to reject it.
FCE didnt agree and said as the fault didnt appear  for a considerable amount of time the 
truck must have been fit for purpose when it was sold.  It said that it wasnt  responsible for 
the truck  not being properly repaired the first time.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN64754602FCE is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I am somewhat bemused that FCE, which is the finance arm of the manufacturer, thinks  its 
parent company makes vehicles which suffer major faults inside a year and this is 
acceptable. A new truck should not require a new gearbox inside a year and if it does that 
suggests there must be something inherently wrong with that vehicle. I put this bluntly as I 
am surprised  that FCE didnt accept rejection when Mr K first requested it and has delayed  
matter unnecessarily. 
Often we will want to see an independent  report into cars so that the cause  can be identified.  
That is not needed here as it is plain that the truck wasnt fit for purpose. Furthermore, Mr K 
was without out it for a number of months  while it was repaired.  That reinforces my opinion 
that the problems were  significant if it took so long to effect a repair and then it broke  down 
again shortly afterwards. FCE says it isnt responsible for the failed repair. In one sense that 
is true in that it didnt carry it out, but it is equally responsible as the owner  and finance  
provider. 
Ref: DRN64754603My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCE Bank Plc to:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Mr K.
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
Pay a further  amount  of £100  for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods  in this case  the arrangements Mr K made  to get his car to a dealership  
for repairs and the having to pay for a hire vehicle.
Remove any adverse  data from Mr Ks credit file.
As stated in the final response letter pay Mr K 50% of his five monthly  repayments  
while the vehicle  was in for repairs.
Refund Mr K £432 for the two occasions he had to arrange for transport of the 
vehicle whilst it was faulty. I gather FCE has already paid the hire car charges for 
Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6475460