K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Audi Finance, continually  attempted  to take a final balloon payment from her account  when it 
wasnt due. She also complains about  the charges they have asked her to pay to refurbish a 
car at the end of her hire agreement.
 
background
Mrs M took receipt of a new car in May 2015. She financed the deal through  a three  year 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
At the end of the term she was surprised  to find that VWFS attempted to take the final 
balloon payment  from her account.  She contacted them and they apologised and promised 
to ensure this didnt  happen again but unfortunately there were two further attempts made  to 
deduct the money from her account  before the car was eventually returned at the end of 
June 2018. VWFS agreed to pay Mrs M £250  to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that shed been caused.  But Mrs M didnt think that was sufficient.
The car was inspected prior to return and the inspector noted  several  areas of damage.  
VWFS said the contract they had with Mrs M required her to pay for any damage or 
deterioration of the vehicle which was in excess of fair wear and tear. They  therefore  asked 
her to pay to remedy the following issues:
1 front bumper scratches £110.40
2 Rear bumper dented £138.00
3 Centre console scratched £135.85
4 LHR door unsatisfactory repair £18.00
5 RHF door scratched £110.40
6 RHR door Blending required £27.00
7 RHR lamp broken £122.90
8 LHR quarter panel Unsatisfactory repair £18.00
9 LHR roof dent £138.00
10 Rear spoiler scratch £55.20
11 LHF tyre cut £253.93
12 LHR tyre cut £253.93
13 LHF wheel scratched £36.00
14 LHR wheel scratched £36.00
15 RHF wheel scratched £36.00
Mrs M didnt  think  VWFS  were being reasonable. She disputed all of the charges and VWFS  
agreed to waive  item 6 as they agreed it wasnt evidenced properly in the inspectors 
photographs. But Mrs M was still dissatisfied. She said that shed been advised by the 
dealership that only a repair to the door/wing was required and she believed she could have 
got the work  completed for less if she was given  the opportunity. VWFS  didnt agree with 
Mrs M.
So she referred  her complaint to this service and our investigator  provided his opinion.  He 
thought the compensation  provided  by VWFS  in relation to the mistaken payment requests 
was reasonable  in the circumstances. He noted that there wasnt  evidence of Mrs M being 
financially disadvantaged. He went on to consider the damage  charges. He explained that 
the dealerships  comments werent  those of the qualified inspector who was trained to 
Ref: DRN64865042examine the damage to the industry guidelines.  He said the dealerships comments  
amounted to a third party assessment and he didnt think it would be fair to suggest VWFS 
should change  the charges on the basis  of that assessment.  He therefore reviewed the 
photographs in the report against the industry  guidelines for each area of damage he 
thought there was clear evidence of it being in excess of what would be considered fair wear 
and tear. He therefore agreed  with the charges that had been invoiced by VWFS.
But Mrs M didnt agree  with the investigators  view and she therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs M so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired  her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
the damage
The terms of Mrs Ms finance agreement allowed VWFS to charge her for any damage  or 
deterioration of the vehicle which was in excess of fair wear and tear.
I dont think it would  be fair to hold VWFS responsible for any comments  made by the 
dealership about refurbishment.  The industry  guidelines on what is considered fair wear  and 
tear when a car is returned  at the end of its lease are provided by the British  Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) and thats  the standard  that the inspector applied  when 
reviewing Mrs Ms vehicle.
So Ive reviewed the outstanding charges  and the damage to the car that is evidenced  in the 
inspection photographs.  In all cases I agree with our investigators view that the damage  
would be considered beyond normal wear and tear and should be chargeable.
Mrs M should  have been aware from the onset  that any damage  could be chargeable. I say 
that because that was set out in the terms of the finance agreement.  I dont think its 
therefore fair to suggest VWFS should have allowed her an opportunity to have the repairs 
completed herself after the inspection was done.  That would have required a further 
inspection and an extension of the terms of the contract which would, I think  its fair to say, 
have resulted in Mrs M being asked to make  additional payments.
Ref: DRN64865043Ive thought about how much VWFS charged Mrs M for each repair.  Those charges are in 
line with others Ive seen  VWFS charge and broadly in line with others that Ive seen their 
competitors make. I dont  think theres  evidence the charges are excessive. 
the balloon payment requests
Its clearly unacceptable  for VWFS  to request payments when theyre not due. And here the 
balloon payment wasnt due because Mrs M was returning the car. I can understand that 
would have been distressing for Mrs M and VWFS are right to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience. But, theres fortunately  been no financial loss and I think, in the 
circumstances, £250 is sufficient compensation. 
I doubt that VWFS have  reported those missing  balloon  payments to Mrs Ms credit  file. 
They clearly  should  not have done as they were charged in error. For the avoidance of 
doubt, and to ensure Mrs Ms credit file is not impacted by VWFSs mistake,  I would ask 
them to check they havent reported  any missed payment and to rectify the error if they 
have. But I dont think VWFS have been unreasonable  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6486504