K821x#15the complaint
Mrs H says TSB Bank  plcs IT problems  had an impact on her. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs H says this meant  she was 
unable to access online banking  for about two weeks. At the same time, Mrs H lost her debit 
card and ordered a replacement,  which she says took around  two weeks. This meant  she 
had to visit the branch with her small  children around three times to withdraw cash. She also 
had to borrow money from her mother to pay for a holiday, and found the whole situation 
very stressful. 
Shes also told us TSBs telephone banking service  was very busy,  so she spent a long time 
waiting on the phone.  She thinks she made around  eight phone  calls trying to fix the 
problem. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He thought TSB should  pay Mrs H £300 for the 
trouble and upset  caused. He also said TSB should pay £87 for costs Mrs H incurred  while 
calling and travelling  to branch, as well as two late payment fees of £10. And that TSB 
should write a letter  for Mrs Hs creditors in case her credit file had been affected.
Mrs H didnt think this was enough  compensation. She felt £1,000  would reflect the distress  
and inconvenience  shed been  caused.  She also said shed looked  in her diary  and found  
shed visited the branch  an additional  4 times during the two week  period to withdraw cash 
and had therefore incurred additional  costs.  She  wanted these to be included in the 
compensation.
Another adjudicator  looked at the complaint  again.  He looked at Mrs Hs statements and 
could see she completed an online transfer  and used her card on the 2 May 2018. And he 
saw Mrs H had only withdrawn cash twice  during  the two week  period in question, so it 
appears she had only visited  the branch twice.  Because  of this he didnt  think  Mrs H had 
been without her card or online access for very long, and he agreed the previous 
recommendation made was fair. 
TSB accepted this, Mrs H didnt. She thought £500,  plus the financial losses,  would be a fair 
amount instead.   So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think a payment of £300  compensation  and £87 of financial loss is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint. 
Mrs H says she had to visit the branch to withdraw  cash around seven times over the two 
week period when she didnt have access to her online banking and was without a debit 
card. Looking at Mrs Hs statements for around  the two week period, I can see she withdrew  
cash on two separate  occasions. Mrs H has since  said that while she may have only gone to 
withdraw cash twice, she also had to drive  her mother to branches  so she could  withdraw 
cash for Mrs H to borrow. 
Ref: DRN67810012Its not possible for me to know exactly how many times Mrs H had to travel  due to the 
problems with TSBs IT system. Mrs H hasnt been consistent in what  shes  said,  so its 
difficult to come to a precise  figure  for her financial losses. And Mrs H hasnt been able to 
provide an itemised  phone bill showing the actual cost of her calls. On balance,  I think  the 
£87 our adjudicator  recommended  is most likely  a fair reflection of the costs  Mrs H incurred. 
I appreciate that being without online banking and a debit card for any period of time can be 
stressful. TSB hasnt been able to show me exactly how long Mrs H was without her debit 
card. Looking at her statements,  I can see Mrs H last uses one card on 1 May 2018  and then 
uses a new card on 11 May 2018. So it looks  like she was without a card for a maximum of 
ten days.
Mrs H says she wants £500  for the worry and frustration the being without a debit card and 
online banking caused  and I can understand her strength of feeling. But taking everything 
into account, I think the compensation the adjudicator has already recommended   and TSB 
has agreed to  is a fair amount for this. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mrs H £300 for the impact  the IT issues had;
and pay £87 for the financial  losses  this caused   made  up of call costs,  travel costs  
and late payment fees;
and give Mrs H a letter for her creditors if her credit file has been affected.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6781001