K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Zurich Insurance Plc didnt pay a claim he made on his annual motor  
excess policy after he claimed for a refund.
 
background
Mr Cs policy  with Zurich covered an excess of £1,200 that he was required to pay should 
there be any damage to his hired  camper van. He bought the policy on the internet. He says 
there was nothing in the wording of the policy summary to alert him to the fact that the policy 
didnt cover damage to the camper vans interior (unless it was caused by a collision). He 
said the exclusion was buried on page  22 of the 24-page policy  document.  
Mr C damaged three items inside the camper  van during the period of hire. Zurich  declined 
his claim to refund the excess hed had to pay the rental firm. Mr C didnt think that was fair.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She thought he should have read the 
policys terms and conditions when  he took the policy out. She didnt think the exclusion was 
significant enough to need  highlighting. And she thought  the policy wording was clear. 
Mr C said that in camper van hire, the excess payable to the rental company applies to all 
damage done to the vehicles interior, regardless of whether there  has been a collision. He 
said the risk of interior damage was high, given that the vehicle was lived in. He said if hed 
known the interior  wasnt covered, he would  have looked for another  policy. And he said he 
wanted the issue of the exclusion only being  in the small  print to be addressed.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich pointed out that page one of the document Mr C viewed  before  he bought the policy 
set out a list of the items covered. They included the windscreen, tyres, bodywork and 
undercarriage. Zurich  said if the interior had also been covered it would have been in the list, 
as that would have been a selling point. I think thats  a fair comment. From the research we 
did, it seems that many  excess policies exclude  interior damage altogether. Some  provide  
cover for damage to interiors caused by collision, fire, theft or vandalism, but not accidental 
damage caused by the person renting  the vehicle.  
Zurich also pointed out that on page  two of the same document,  the exclusions to the policy  
are set out. One of them says no cover will apply to rental vehicle contents. 
As part of the online  process, Mr C had to say hed read the policy wording before buying the 
policy. On page  six of the policy summary - directly  after the paragraph referring to camper 
van cover  - exclusions  are listed. One of them says damage to the contents of rental 
vehicles isnt covered.  Theres an exception for personal belongings, as long as extra cover 
has been bought for that purpose.
Zurich says the major risk that it thinks needs to be covered is the risk of damage to vehicles 
through collisions.  Mr C says as people live in camper vans  for the rental  period (carrying  out 
Ref: DRN69334162daily activities in them)  theres a high risk of accidental damage  to their interiors. I can see 
why he would be concerned about any such damage not being covered. But I think insurers 
are entitled  to decide what  risks theyre  willing to cover.  
I dont think the information  about  the exclusion was buried. I think it was visible  in the 
policy summary before he bought the policy. He then had 14 days to look through the 
documents  or at least  the policy summary  - before accepting  it. I think  the exclusion would 
have been even clearer had the word interior rather than contents  been used throughout 
the documents  but I still think it was clear enough.  In my view,  Zurich did enough to alert 
Mr C to the fact that interior  damage  not caused  by a collision wouldnt be covered. And I 
think Mr C may have  struggled to find a policy elsewhere that covered accidental  damage 
caused by a consumer anyway. 
Mr C argues that the use of the word  incident in the section of the policy that refers to 
camper van payment limits is confusing. He says Zurich should have used the word  
collision. He says that wording would have alerted him to the fact that payments arent 
made for interior damage other than that caused by a collision. But I dont think  a change  in 
that wording would have helped. The policy covers  damage that isnt caused by a collision  
(such as vandalism and fire) so in my view the term incident is a better fit.  
As I think  the wording  of the policy was clear  enough, and I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Zurich to decline the claim, I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint about Zurich.      
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6933416