K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
FirstRand Bank Limited.
background
In October  2018 Mr G was supplied  with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with FirstRand.
Shortly after being supplied  with the car Mr G experienced issues. He took the car back  to 
the supplying  dealer  in November 2018, approximately  2 weeks  after the point of supply. 
The supplying dealer was informed of the following issues and carried out repairs:
Check when reversing   get a groan from back end. Stripped  and cleaned  rear 
brakes and replaced pads.
Check cold start. Rough on idle. Found fuel filter to be at fault,  partially restricted. 
Replaced filter.
Check the seal on the gearstick   the gear knob is loose. Compared to like models 
on the lot, all have  the same  amount  of movement, nothing abnormal found  at this 
time.
Check sound underneath vehicle. Sounds like scraping and knocking noise. Found 
trays under vehicle  a little loose, secured.
Check Bluetooth is stuttering  Bluetooth working perfectly at time of test.
The car was returned to Mr G but he continued  to experience issues with the rev counter 
going up and down and the car mis-firing.
The car was returned to the dealership again  in February 2019.  It was tested but no faults 
were found.
Mr G continued to experience issues with the car mis-firing. He contacted  FirstRand  in 
March 2019 to complain. FirstRand arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
engineer. The engineer  found that there  was a slight intermittent fluctuation  to the engines  
idle and a slight difference in readings  from the injectors. The engineer said that the 
difference in readings would not affect  the running  of the car and concluded  that no faults  
were present.
Based on the independent report FirstRand declined Mr Gs request to reject the car. Mr G 
wasnt happy with the repose so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the reporting of a mis-firing issue  had been 
consistent since the point of supply  and that although no faults  had been diagnosed,  the 
supplying dealer had found  a similar issue of a slight mis-fire  which it attempted to repair.  
The investigator recommended  that the agreement was cancelled.
FirstRand didnt agree. It said the independent  report had concluded that the fluctuations 
were not point of supply  faults. It also said that Mr G had since voluntary terminated the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN67372302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FirstRand has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement,  theres an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general  wear and tear.
Mr G and FirstRand disagree  about  whether the car had a fault at the point  of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr G reported issues  with the car mis-firing within 2 days of the point of supply. The job 
cards provided by the garage show that the car went back  several times with this reported 
issue. Although no fault was diagnosed,  the garage acknowledged that there was an issue  
because it wrote to Mr G in March 2019  as follows:
 I appreciate your vehicle  was in with ourselves over the weekend regarding  a mis-fire. On 
inspection there werent any fault codes stored in the system and the technician at the time 
of testing was unable to fault. On collection the technician came out with yourself and me 
and noticed there was a slight mis-fire when starting  up the vehicle.
Following this the garage advised Mr G that the injectors were  faulty  and quoted £1600 for 
repairs.
An independent engineers report can sometimes help with deciding whether or not a car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  In this case, the independent engineer didnt find 
any faults. However, he did note that the number  4 injector was operating  at 1.4 milliseconds 
and the other 3 injectors were  operating  at 1.6 milliseconds. The engineer  also noted an 
intermittent fluctuation on idle but said there were no apparent effects during the test drive.
Although the independent report found no faults, Ive got concerns that the report  identified  
an intermittent fluctuation on idle and a discrepancy  in the operating  speed  of the injectors.  
Taking this information  onto account,  together with the mis-fire identified by the technician  at 
the garage and the dealerships subsequent  advice that the injectors  were  faulty and required 
replacement, I think its more likely than not that theres  an intermittent fault causing a mis-
fire which was present  at the point  of supply.
I appreciate that the independent  inspection didnt replicate the mis-fire but the evidence  
points towards the fault being  intermittent  and the inspection and test drive  was carried out 
over a short period  of time.
The balance of evidence  has persuaded  me that theres a fault with the car which causes it 
to mis-fire intermittently. Im satisfied that the fault was present at the point  of supply. I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  a car to have  this type of fault at the point of supply. 
Because of this, I dont think the car is of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN67372303I understand that Mr G has voluntary terminated the agreement and is no longer in 
possession of the car. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.   FirstRand Bank Limited  must:
Remove any liability to pay the outstanding balance
Refund the cost of any repairs  paid for by Mr G to the supplying dealer
Pay £150 to Mr G for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement from Mr Gs credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6737230