K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The claim is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs G took out in 1997 
when she was in a store. The PPI covered Mrs G if she couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. 
Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Mrs G 
wouldnt have been able to claim under the terms of the policy because she was working 
less than 16 hours a week.
FICL didnt  agree saying, in summary,  that theres no evidence that Mrs G was working  less 
than 16 hours a week and that she didnt tick that box when she completed its complaint 
questionnaire. It says Mrs G hasnt explained why she gave conflicting information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
In accordance with FICLs policy terms, Mrs G needed to be working for at least  16 hours  a 
week in order to be eligible for the policy. Shes told us that she was working less than that. 
She hasnt  been  able to provide any evidence, which isnt surprising given the time thats  
passed. But, taking  into account what Mrs G does recall about her salary  and hours  when 
she made the application I find what  shes told us to be plausible. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs G didnt select  the working fewer than 16 hours  option  on 
FICLs PPI complaint  questionnaire form.  But this doesnt make a difference to my 
conclusion  I think this was most likely  due to an oversight either by Mrs G or her 
representative. In all likelihood,  they didnt read down the whole list of options before 
selecting employed  which,  on its own, isnt inaccurate. 
As Ive concluded that in all likelihood Mrs G was working less than 16 hours  a week, I find 
she wasnt eligible for the PPI.
FICL had to give Mrs G enough  clear  information about the PPIs requirements.  This took 
place a long time ago and theres no record of what was said.  But in all likelihood  FICL didnt 
clearly highlight that Mrs G needed to be working  more than 16 hours to be eligible for the 
policy. I say this because  if Mrs G had been  properly told about the PPI she wouldve 
realised she wasnt eligible for it.
Ref: DRN69806302So I think she did lose out - I dont think Mrs G wouldve wanted to take and then pay for a 
policy that she wasnt eligible for.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
if Mrs Gs store card account is still open:
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and:
A. FICL  should find out how much Mrs G would owe on her card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it. 
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs G paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple  
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra  Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point  when Mrs G wouldve owed FICL something on her card.  
C. FICL  should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A and B.
if Mrs Gs store card account is now closed:
A. FICL  should find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her store 
card.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs G owed when she closed 
she account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. FICL  should add simple interest  (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between  what  
Mrs G wouldve  owed when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN69806303C. If  when FICL works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs G paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple  
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra  Mrs G paid. And they should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Mrs G wouldve owed  FICL something on her 
store card. 
D. FICL  should tell Mrs G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
In either  case,  if the lender has already repaid  any commission  amount to Mrs G that relates 
to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted  by FICL  from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited 
should pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6980630