K821x#15complaint
Company M, represented by Mr B, complained about Saffron Insurance Services Ltds 
handling of two of their fleet vehicle insurance policies.
background
Company M run a campervan and motorhome self-drive hire business. Saffron are an 
independent broker  who were appointed Company  Ms broker in January 2015. Saffron 
arranged and administered Company  Ms policies in 2016 (policy  year ran from 
1 February 2016  to 31 January 2017) and 2017  (policy year ran from 1 February 2017 to 31 
January 2018). The policies provided Company M a number of hire days which  they 
provided to their customers as part of the vehicle hire package.  So, for example, the hire of a 
campervan to a customer for seven days included seven days of insurance  cover.
The policy renewal arranged by Saffron for 2016 was for 3,500 hire days. That was a large 
increase from the previous policy year. Company M said that amount of days was too high 
for them. But Saffron  said that was the amount the underwriter had insisted on. Company M 
said they were convinced to go ahead with that policy only after Saffron assured them  that, 
having agreed with the underwriter, they would get a refund  for all the leftover  unused  days  
at the end of the policy year. Company  M said that at the end of the policy year,  there was a 
large number of unused days left over so they asked Saffron  for a refund. But Saffron  said 
they werent entitled to a refund and that they hadnt given Company M any assurances  that 
they would  get a refund.  Company M said the same arrangement was agreed with Saffron 
for the 2017 policy year and that Saffron again denied that there was an agreement for the 
underwriter to refund Company M the unused leftover days. 
The 2017  policy  year renewed with a different underwriter  to the one in 2016. The policy  
excess that Company  M had to pay for each claim was £1,000 under the 2016 policy.  But, in 
2017, that increased to £2,500, which Company  M said was unaffordable. Company M said 
that after raising this issue  with Saffron,  Saffron told them that they (Saffron)  had agreed with 
the underwriter to reduce the excess to £1,500.  In May 2017, when one of Company Ms 
vehicles was involved in an accident  abroad, they made a claim. And it was then they found 
out the excess hadnt been reduced  to £1,500. When Company M complained, Saffron said 
that they had never agreed  or assured them that the excess would be reduced  to £1,500. 
Company M said that they charged their customers £1,200 per incident the customer was 
involved in that led to a claim. That meant  that for every claim Company M made under their 
policy, they had to pay £1,300 towards  the excess. But had the excess  been £1,500,  as they 
expected, they would have only paid £300 per claim,  which they were prepared to do. Even 
when Company M believed the excess was reduced to £1,500, they didnt increase the 
amount their customers had to pay per incident  so as to remain competitive. As a result,  
Company M said they lost around £8,500.  Company M said that there  were  also a number of 
incidents for which they couldnt claim on their policy because  the value of the claims were  
under the £2,500 excess limit. They said that had the excess  been £1,500, they would have 
been able to claim for those incidents where  the value of the claim was over £1,500. While 
Company M still charged their customers £1,200 for those incidents, meaning they recouped  
some of their costs towards the repairs, they still suffered a financial loss.
Company M said that when the policy renewed  in 2017, Saffron had told them that the terms 
of the policy  were the same as the previous year.  But when one of their vehicles was 
involved in the accident in May 2017, the underwriter refused to pay the claim  saying that 
Ref: DRN63869892Company M hadnt  informed them that the hired vehicle would be taken abroad,  which was a 
condition of the 2017 policy.  That wasnt a condition of the 2016  policy  and Company M 
complained that Saffron  hadnt told them about the new requirement. After  some time, 
Saffron paid Company  M the total loss value of that vehicle. But Company M said that due to 
the delay with that claim being paid, they lost around £14,000 in income due to not having a 
vehicle to hire, which  they say was Saffrons fault.
Company M said that most of their contact with Saffron was by phone, and that the 
assurances given  by Saffron about  the refund of hire days  and the reduced excess were 
almost exclusively given  by phone and, on occasions, during meetings.
Saffron didnt uphold  Company Ms complaint. Company M didn't think  that was fair so they 
brought their complaint  to us. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint. She didnt  
think it should be upheld.  As Company M didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 1 August 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I must decide if Saffron  have dealt with Company M in a fair and reasonable way.
2016 and 2017 unused  hire days
This aspect  of Company Ms complaint hinges  on what  they were,  or werent, told by 
Saffron. In relation  to both policy years Company M had a large  amount of unused 
hire days  for which they expected a refund from the underwriter. Company M said 
that all their dealings  were with Saffron  and that the issue of unused  days  was 
specifically discussed  on a number of occasions,  over the phone and during 
meetings. To aid me in reaching my decision I asked Saffron to provide me with all 
their recordings  of the calls they had with Company M. But Saffron said that there 
were no recordings because Saffrons  conversations  with Company M were almost  
exclusively done on a mobile phone.
Company M are adamant that Saffron told them, in relation to the unused days  
remaining at the end of both the 2016  and 2017  policy years, that the underwriters 
would give a refund.  Company M said that Saffron assured them on a number of 
occasions that an agreement had been reached  with the underwriters.  Company  M 
said that had it not been  for Saffrons  assurances  that they would get a refund, they 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the 2016 and 2017 policies. Saffron categorically 
deny that they had told Company M that they (Saffron) had secured agreements with 
the underwriters for any refund of unused days to be made.  
In the absence of call records as to what was discussed, I can only turn to the 
evidence that is available  to me. That includes the evidence of the parties, which  are 
in direct conflict as to what was said. But, there is what I believe to be a relevant 
email which  I have  outlined below.
Ref: DRN63869893In response to Company M asking  Saffron for a refund of the unused  days  for the 
2016 policy year, which  ended  on 31 January 2017,  Saffron  sent an email to 
Company M on 11 February  2017, in which they said:
I have spoken with a senior underwriter regarding  the rebate  from [the 2016 
underwriter] and they are awaiting for the underwriter, [individuals name],  
who confirmed [my emphasis] the rebate of premium last year should your 
vehicles years not be used up.
This email from Saffron clearly  suggests that they (Saffron) did have a conversation 
with the underwriter of the 2016  policy and that the underwriter confirmed the rebate 
of premium in the event that Company  M didnt use all their hire days. Given Saffron  
said the underwriter  confirmed the rebate, I think Saffron would have believed that 
they had an agreement for the refund of unused days. And as they believed they had 
an agreement with the underwriter, I think Saffron would have told Company M that 
they (Saffron) had secured the agreement,  given  Company M said the refund was so 
important to them that they wouldnt have  gone  ahead with the policy.  I therefore  feel 
that this evidence directly  contradicts what Saffron told our service, namely that 
there was neither a formal or informal agreement for the unused hire days  to be 
returned. It follows that the email corroborates  what Company M have said.  They 
said that Saffron  told them  on a number of occasions that a refund was agreed with 
the underwriters for unused days left over at the end of the 2016  and 2017 policy  
years. Company  M told us that they asked  Saffron for confirmation of this agreement 
in writing which Saffron  didn't provide.
I therefore find that Saffron did tell Company  M that they (Saffron)  had secured 
agreement with the underwriters of the 2016 and 2017 policy  years  that any unused 
days would  be refunded. And I accept that it was on the basis  of that assurance that 
Company M took out the policies. I therefore  intend  to uphold this part of the 
complaint and I intend to require Saffron to refund  Company M the value of the 
unused hire days remaining at the end of the 2016  and 2017 policy  years. I also 
intend to require Saffron to pay simple  interest  on the amounts from the dates they 
were due to be refunded  until the date the refund is made. In relation to the 2016 
policy year the refund  of the unused  days was due on 01 February 2017, the day 
after the policy ended. And for the 2017  policy year, the refund was due on 
1 February 2018.
the 2017 excess amount
As with the unused  hire days, Company M said that they had a verbal agreement 
with Saffron that the policy  excess  for the 2017 policy  year had been reduced by the 
underwriter from £2,500 down to £1,500  per claim.  Again the evidence of the two 
sides is in complete contradiction to each other. Saffron said there  was neither a 
formal or informal agreement for the excess to be reduced. But, I have  seen a 
number of relevant  emails  which I have outlined, below.
On 2 March 2017,  Saffron  sent an email to the sub-broker involved in the 2017 
policy. Saffron said:
Having checked the terms  received  for [Company M], they appear to be 
slightly different to what we agreed [my emphasis] on the phone. The main  
Ref: DRN63869894point was the £2,500  excess which I believe we had negotiated to either 
£1,000 to match [the 2016 underwriter] or £1,500.
In another email  from Saffron to the sub-broker, dated 25 April 2017, Saffron said:
I have some queries on the cover  for the above client and also it appears an 
excess, which was agreed [my emphasis]  at a lower level,  has been missed 
at inception.
In an email query from Company M to Saffron, Saffron replied to Company M on 
31 May 2017, and confirmed the excess is £1000. And that they will speak to the 
insurers.
In another email  from Saffron to the sub-broker, dated 7 June 2017, Saffron said:
The excess was agreed [my emphasis] at £1,500  at inception but has been  
bound at £2,500.
This email evidence clearly suggests  that Saffron  believed  that the policy excess had 
been reduced to £1,500 from the start of the 2017  policy year. Although  there 
appears to be some  confusion on Saffrons  part as to whether the excess had 
reduced to £1,000. But they were adamant that the reduction was agreed, which 
was a word repeatedly used in the emails to the sub-broker.
And as they were  adamant  that they had an agreement with the underwriter, I think  
Saffron would have  told Company M that the excess had been reduced.  I therefore 
feel that this evidence directly contradicts what Saffron told our service, namely that 
there was neither a formal or informal agreement for the excess  to be reduced. It 
follows that the emails  corroborate what Company M have said.  They said that 
Saffron told them on a number of occasions  that the excess  had been reduced  after 
agreement with the underwriter.
I therefore find that Saffron did tell Company  M that the excess had been reduced  to 
£1,500 and that was one of the key reasons Company M decided to go ahead  with 
the 2017 policy. I therefore intend to uphold this part of the complaint. I will require 
Saffron to pay Company  M the shortfall for each  claim they made during the 2017  
policy year where they paid an excess of £2,500. As Company Ms expectation was 
that the excess was £1,500, the shortfall  for each claim  Saffron should  pay is £1,000. 
I also intend to require Saffron to pay simple  interest at 8% a year from the date of 
each claim payment from which the excess was deducted to the date payment is 
made to Company M.
Company M said that there were  also a number of incidents for which  they couldnt 
claim on their policy because  the value of the claims were  under the £2,500  excess 
limit. They said that had the excess  been £1,500, they would have been able to claim 
for those  incidents where the value  of the claim  was over £1,500. While Company M 
still charged their customers £1,200 for those incidents, their suggestion is that while  
they recouped  some  of their costs  towards  the repairs, they still suffered a financial 
loss. Thats  because, as I understand it, they paid to have the repairs  carried out 
which would have otherwise been  repaired by the insurer. But as no evidence or 
specific details have  been provided by Company  M in relation  to what  financial loss 
Ref: DRN63869895they suffered  as a result, Im not intending  to ask Saffron to make  any other payment 
in this regard.
Company Ms loss resulting from the May 2017  accident
When one of Company  Ms vehicles was involved in the accident in May 2017, the 
underwriter refused to pay the claim saying that Company M hadnt informed them 
that the hired vehicle would be taken abroad, which was a condition  of the 2017 
policy. Company M held Saffron responsible  for the underwriter  not paying  the claim.  
But in October  2017, I understand Saffron  took responsibility and paid the claim, by 
effectively stepping into the shoes of the underwriter.
But Company M have  said that they lost almost £14,000 during May and 
October 2017 because  they didnt have the vehicle as it had been written off. And 
their argument is that but for Saffrons error,  the underwriter would have paid the 
claim quickly, which would have meant that Company M would have bought a 
replacement vehicle and continued their business.  But even if that were the case  and 
the underwriter did pay the claim, I think Company M wouldnt have been paid the 
total loss of the vehicle instantly. As with most motor vehicle claims, I think  the 
underwriter would have  had to have validated  the claim, and possibly make some  
enquiries if not investigate. And given  the accident was abroad,  that process  would 
have likely taken longer than normal. Likewise, even  if things went  smoothly  and the 
underwriter paid out on the claim,  I think it would have taken some time for Company 
M to have  bought  the replacement vehicle.
Company M have told our service that in their opinion it would have only taken the 
underwriter a few weeks  to validate  and pay the total loss claim. But I havent  been 
provided with convincing evidence as to how long its likely that process would have 
taken, or how long the process of buying  a new vehicle takes. I also havent been 
provided with documentary evidence itemising the actual loss Company M said they 
suffered. For these reasons, Im not intending  to uphold this part of the complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Saffron said:
The term minimum deposit was clear  to both parties and that Saffron didnt  mislead 
Company M. The fact that Company M continued into the 2017  policy  year without  
having received  a rebate for the 2016 policy year is evidence that Company M were 
clear over the terms of the minimum deposit.
The word rebate  used in the email referred  to in my provisional decision was merely 
mirroring the language of Company M in the overall negotiation.
They accept they asked the underwriter  of the 2017 policy to reduce the excess to 
£1,500. A policy with that excess wasnt available in the market. But even after the 
2017 policy renewal  Saffron continued  trying  to negotiate a reduction of the excess 
with the underwriter. But Saffron  werent  successful in getting the excess  reduced 
and Company M were  aware on renewal  that the excess was £2,500.
For the 2016 policy year 522 days  remained  unused from the 3,500  days.  The 
premium for the 522 days was £18.07 per day which amounted to a total of 
£9,432.54 (522 x £18.07).
In relation to the 2017 policy Saffron  said: The premium for this period was 
calculated on a different  basis  of 100%  Minimum & Deposit  premium  with a retained  
deposit premium of £40,000 plus IPT (at 10%) to apply  in respect  of hired  in vehicles. 
These are to be charged at £17.50 plus IPT per day and deducted on a monthly 
Ref: DRN63869896basis from the deposit premium. Once  this deposit has been exhausted then this 
daily rate was charged. Based on the last declaration made by the client on the 
03/01/2018 the client had used a total of 1901  hire days. A daily rate of £19.25 
(including IPT) per day would have  cost £36,594.25 including insurance premium  tax 
(10%). The original minimum  and deposit premium  was £44,000  including  IPT 
leaving a balance of underutilised days of £7,405.75.
Saffron said that their records indicated Company  M had only five losses during the 
2017 policy year. But there was no indication as to whether  each of those five losses 
exceeded £1,500 in value.
Company M provided  a statement from a manager, together  with a number of spreadsheets, 
saying the total loss of one of their vehicles in May 2017 caused  financial loss of around  
£19,000.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the further  information provided by the parties, as 
follows:
2016 and 2017 unused  hire days
Saffron have said that the terms of the minimum deposit were clear  to both parties. But the 
email from Saffron to Company M on 11 February 2017, sent days  after the 2017 policy year 
started, is significant.  I think  its important to again look at what  Saffron  said in that email in 
response to Company M asking Saffron for a refund of the unused days from the 2016 policy  
year. Saffron  said:
I have spoken with a senior underwriter regarding  the rebate  from [the 2016 
underwriter] and they are awaiting for the underwriter, [individuals name] , who 
confirmed [my emphasis]  the rebate of premium last year should your vehicles  years  
not be used up.
It is clear from this email that there  was discussion between Saffron and Company M about 
Company M getting  a refund for the unused hire days  from the 2016  policy  year. Its also 
clear that Saffron spoke  with the underwriter who confirmed the rebate of premium  for the 
unused hire days from the 2016  policy  year. This corroborates Company Ms position that 
there was an agreement between Saffron and Company M that Company M would get a 
refund for unused  hire days.  And it directly contradicts what  Saffron told our service, namely 
that there was neither  a formal or informal agreement  for the unused  hire days  to be 
returned. I think if there was no agreement as suggested by Saffron there would have  been  
no reason for Saffron  to get confirmation from the underwriter, which  they clearly did. 
Given the expectation Company M had of getting  a refund for the 2016 policy year,  and 
given the assurance  given  by Saffron to Company M in that email  that they would get a 
refund, I dont find it surprising that Company M decided to continue with Saffron  into the 
2017 policy year. And given the evidence supports there was such  an agreement  between 
Saffron and Company  M for the 2016 policy year, and the importance to Company M of 
getting a refund for unused  days, I accept what Company  M have said that the parties 
agreed to the same  arrangement for the 2017  policy year.
Ref: DRN63869897For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I require  Saffron to pay 
Company M the value of the unused days for the 2016 and 2017 policy  years. Simple  
interest at 8% a year should  also be added to the payments from the dates the refunds for 
the 2016 and 2017 unused days became due until payment is made.
The parties will have records of how many  unused hire days  there were for the 2016 and 
2017 policy years. The parties  also have records of the cost of each unused  hire day for the 
2016 and 2017 policy years. The parties can therefore agree the number of unused days 
and the total value of those.
the 2017 excess amount
As with the unused  hire days, Company M said that they had a verbal agreement with 
Saffron that the policy excess  for the 2017  policy year had been  reduced by the underwriter 
from £2,500 down to £1,500 per claim. 
I reproduced the relevant emails in my provisional  decision  which show  it was agreed that 
the policy excess was reduced from £2,500 to £1,500 per claim.  Its therefore  reasonable 
that Company  M relied on that agreement. 
Im therefore  upholding this part of the complaint and require Saffron to refund Company M: 
£1,000 for each  valid claim Company  M made  during the 2017 policy  year for which  they 
paid an excess of £2,500. Simple interest at 8% a year should be added  to each £1,000 
refund from the date Company M paid the excess until the date the refund is made.
I dont know how many such claims  were made,  if any. But the parties  will have records  on 
which they can agree on the number.
Company M said that there were  also a number of incidents for which  they couldnt claim on 
their policy because the value of the claims were under  the £2,500 excess  limit. Had the 
excess been £1,500, as agreed, any claim over £1,500 could have  been  made.  I understand 
from Company M that they had a number of incidents involving their vehicles  where the 
value of the damage suffered was between £1,500 and £2,500,  which meant  they were  
unable to claim on their 2017 policy. I also understand that Company M had to have those  
vehicles repaired themselves. I said in my provisional decision that no evidence  had been 
provided to me to show what financial loss Company M suffered  as a result  of not being able 
to claim on their policy. And since my provisional decision no evidence or specific details 
have been provided by Company M in relation to what financial loss they suffered. Im 
therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
Company Ms loss resulting from the May 2017  accident
When one of Company  Ms vehicles was involved in the accident abroad  in May 2017, the 
underwriter refused to pay the claim saying that Company M hadnt informed them that the 
hired vehicle  would be taken abroad, which was a condition of the 2017 policy. Company M 
held Saffron responsible for the underwriter  not paying the claim. But in October 2017, 
Saffron took responsibility  and paid the claim, by effectively stepping into the shoes of the 
underwriter.
But Company M said they lost almost £14,000 between  May and October  2017,  because 
they didnt have the vehicle as it had been  written off. And they said but for Saffrons error, 
the underwriter would have paid the claim quickly, which would have meant that Company M 
Ref: DRN63869898would have bought a replacement vehicle and continued their business. But due to the 
delays, Company M lost business and suffered financial loss.
Company M have since my provisional  decision provided a statement from a manager  and 
further information saying their losses  amounted to around £19,000. The loses were a result  
of having to cancel exiting  bookings  because the vehicle was no longer available and not 
being able to take new bookings. In addition to the losses  from cancelling existing bookings 
and not being able to make new bookings, Company M said they lost over £1,000 as a result 
of research, work carried out on requests from Saffron. Its not clear  to me exactly  what  
that research  work was.
But as I said in my provisional decision, even if the underwriter  accepted  the claim and 
things ran smoothly, there  would have been  a process where  the underwriter would have 
had to validate the claim, which may have involved a period  of investigation as underwriters 
often do. The time to do that might have  taken longer than usual given the incident that led 
to the total loss happened abroad. I also said that even  if the claim was settled it would  have 
taken Company M a period  of time to have bought a replacement vehicle. It wasnt a 
standard vehicle  it was a motorhome with certain  specifications, which  may have taken 
longer to obtain. I understand  the accident  happened around 18 May 2017 and Saffron 
settled the claim in October  2017. So, the process took around five months. I cant  say what 
would have happened if the underwriter  had accepted the claim and dealt with it rather  than 
refuse it. But I think that even if they accepted the claim, it could have  taken months for it to 
be settled. And I also think it would have taken a period of time for Company M to buy a 
new, similar vehicle.  Since my provisional decision I havent been  provided with any 
evidence to show the likely timeframes in which the underwriter might have settled the claim 
or how long it would have taken Company M to buy a new vehicle.
In my provisional decision I said: I also havent  been provided with documentary  evidence 
itemising the actual  loss Company M said they suffered. While Company M have provided a 
statement and some spreadsheets, there  is no supporting documentary evidence  showing 
the loss, such as booking confirmations  and receipts. The spreadsheets also lack detail as to 
the dates of the bookings.  So, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Saffron Insurance 
Services Ltd to:
Refund Company  M the value of all the unused hire days for the 2016 policy year. 
Simple interest at 8% a year should be paid on that amount  from 1 February 2017 until 
the refund  is made.1
Refund Company  M the value of all the unused hire days for the 2017 policy year. 
Simple interest at 8% a year should be paid on that amount  from 1 February 2018 until 
the refund  is made.
Refund Company  M £1,000 for each valid claim they made and for which  they paid a 
£2,500 excess  during  the 2017 policy  year. Simple interest at 8% a year should be 
added to the total from the dates Company M paid the excesses until they are 
reimbursed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Ref: DRN63869899Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Saffron consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Company M how much they have taken  off. They  should  also give them a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6386989