K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to decline his claim under 
his home  insurance  policy for theft of jewellery.
background
In April 2018, Mr R suffered a break-in  at his property. He reported the incident to Tesco and 
said that a jacket  and baseball bat had been  stolen.  However, in view of the value  of the 
stolen items  and the policy  excess, he didnt immediately pursue a claim.
Ten days  later,  Mr R contacted Tesco again.  He said he now realised  that his wifes 
jewellery had been  stolen  during the break-in. He estimated its value at over £20,000  and so 
he now wished to make  a claim.
After appointing a loss adjuster to look into the matter, Tesco  eventually  told Mr R it wasnt 
satisfied with his explanation of why the loss wasnt discovered and reported  sooner. It 
considered that his version of events  was implausible. It concluded that his claim for loss of 
jewellery hadnt been proven and breached  the policys conditions  relating to fraudulent 
claims. It therefore said it was declining the claim.
Mr R was unhappy at Tescos decision and at the time it had taken  to communicate this. 
He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The burglary occurred  overnight while Mr R, his wife and young child were asleep.  There is no 
dispute that there was a genuine break-in. The police  were called and Mr R reported  the theft of 
his jacket and a baseball bat. The police specifically  asked  if valuables had been taken. Mr Rs 
wife quickly went upstairs and came down  to report that the jewellery  was still there.
Ten days  later,  Mr R and his wife were  getting  ready to go out and she went  to fetch some 
jewellery. It was at this point that she apparently realised the jewellery had in fact been  
stolen. Mr R immediately reported  the loss to the police and then to Tesco.
Mr R has explained that he had two safes which were kept side by side, partially concealed 
by a large bag, in the corner of a spare  bedroom.  He said that one of these  contained the 
jewellery (and the receipts for this jewellery) while the other was empty. He said that when 
his wife went to check  at the request  of the police, one of the safes was visible and she 
assumed that the jewellery  was untouched  without  checking further. In fact, the safe she saw 
was the unused one and it was only ten days later that she discovered that the one 
containing the jewellery had been  stolen.
Mr R accepts that it was an error  on the part of his wife but says this was due to the emotion 
they were both going through  at the time. He also accepts that he didnt double check on the 
jewellery in the intervening period but says that he had no reason to, given he understood 
that his wife had already checked,  and furthermore he had other things  on his mind  including  
an impending  eye operation  and the need to improve security at his home to prevent future 
break-ins. 
Ref: DRN69006112Tesco carried out extensive investigations into Mr Rs claim. It eventually  concluded  that there 
were too many concerns which, in combination, made Mr Rs version of events implausible.  It 
therefore said that his claim for loss of jewellery  was unproven  and would be declined.
Let me first of all deal with whether Mr R actually owned the items for which he was claiming. 
Our investigator thought he hadnt provided adequate proof of the ownership and value of 
these items.  However, while he was unable to provide receipts, Mr R was able to provide 
photos of his wife wearing  the majority of the items.  He was also able to show he had made 
cash withdrawals of £10,000 at the time he said certain of the items were bought. 
Having reviewed the photos and spoken to Mr Rs wife, Tescos  approved  supplier 
concluded the items were described  well and was able to value the items. Tescos loss 
adjuster acknowledged that the ownership appeared to be evidenced. Im therefore satisfied 
that Mr R owned  the items for which  he was claiming.
This means  that the claim for the jewellery is eligible unless Mr R wasnt telling the truth.  
Tesco, although it didnt  go so far as to accuse Mr R of committing fraud, clearly believes he 
wasnt. It highlighted certain concerns.
One of these concerns was that Tesco considered  it was implausible that the thieves would 
have chosen to take one safe but leave the other  behind. However, Tescos loss adjuster 
reported: The safe left in the home was empty and upon examination  and shaking this was 
apparent. If it was apparent to the loss adjuster, I consider it would have been equally 
apparent to the thieves. I therefore consider that the fact the thieves left behind the empty  
safe should not cause  any concern as to the validity of Mr Rs claim.
Another concern  cited by Tesco is that when Mr R telephoned it to report the loss of the 
jewellery he said a jewellery box had been  stolen whereas at all times since  he has referred  to 
it as a safe. Tesco says that a jewellery box is entirely different  to a safe and Mr R has 
therefore contradicted  himself. However, the safe is a metal box and Mr R says that he and his 
wife therefore  used to refer to it as the jewellery  box. I dont find this surprising or suspicious 
and do not consider that it should cause any concern as to the validity of Mr Rs claim.
Tesco also suggested  that Mr R was less than forthcoming with any elaborative detail  when 
he rang Tesco to advise it of the loss of the jewellery. I have read the transcript of this call 
but I dont consider there was anything  unduly  suspicious in the way Mr R reported the loss.
Mr R was also unable to provide evidence that he owned two safes.  However, while such 
evidence may have been helpful to support his case, he has explained  that they were bought 
about eight years earlier for about  £30 to £40 each from a retail outlet and he no longer has a 
receipt. In the circumstances,  I think it is understandable that he is not able to provide proof 
of purchase and I dont  think this is reason  to suspect  that he didnt own two safes.  
This means  that Tescos grounds for doubting the validity of Mr Rs claim comes  down to two 
surprising factors. These are, first, that his wife, on being asked by the police to check 
whether the jewellery had been  stolen, failed to carry out that check properly. And secondly,  
that in the intervening ten days  neither  Mr R nor his wife bothered to double  check that the 
jewellery was untouched  even though  these  were their most  valuable possessions, 
accounting for approximately 30% of their total contents sum assured, and they knew  the 
thieves had been in that bedroom to steal other items.
Ref: DRN69006113I would have fully expected Mr Rs wife to have made sure on entering the bedroom that the 
safe she could  see was the one containing  her jewellery rather than make any assumptions to 
this effect. Mr R clearly feels the same  and has referred to heated discussions between him and 
his wife when  they later realised the jewellery had been stolen. But while  I would have fully 
expected Mr Rs wife to have conducted  this check, I cant reasonably dismiss the possibility  
that she failed  to do so, particularly  as she was likely to be feeling very stressed at the time. 
I would also have expected either Mr R or his wife to have  double-checked on the jewellery 
and discovered  the loss sooner than they did. However, Mr R has explained that on the day 
following the break-in  his wife took their child and went to stay with her family for a few days  
because she didnt  feel safe. He said that he had no reason to check on the jewellery 
because he understood his wife had already done this, plus he was concerned  about  his 
forthcoming operation  and with improving the security of the house. Overall,  while  I consider 
it surprising that the loss wasnt  discovered  sooner, I dont  find it implausible.   
Essentially, I therefore have to decide whether Mr Rs wife failed to perform  a proper check  
when invited to do so by the police, or whether  Mr R has fabricated the claim. I am inclined 
towards the former. I dont think Tesco has provided  enough grounds for reasonably 
concluding that the loss of the jewellery  didnt occur. And while  it may have been foolhardy  
for Mr Rs wife not to have  carried out a proper  check on the jewellery at the time, this is no 
reason for the claim to be declined.
In view of the above, I consider that Tesco should  accept and settle the claim in line with the 
policys remaining terms and conditions. Mr R should note that the amount he receives  may 
be impacted by the Single  Article  Limit  of £2,000  which applies to the policy.
Mr R has also raised a complaint about the length of time Tesco  took to reach its decision. 
However, while I have  provisionally  found  in Mr Rs favour, I also concede that the late 
notification of the claim will have  caused  suspicion as to its validity. Im therefore satisfied 
that, even though it eventually reached the wrong  outcome,  Tescos  thorough  and lengthy 
investigation was justified.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Tesco didnt  accept  my provisional decision.  It drew attention to two previous ombudsman  
decisions on complaints  which  it felt were similar  in nature and in which the ombudsman had 
supported the insurers decision to decline the claim.  It considered that the cumulative 
inconsistencies in Mr Rs claim created a highly implausible scenario. It referenced  a court 
case concerning  an insurance claim where,  in view of the unlikely circumstances, the insurer  
had not alleged fraud but had denied that the insured person had suffered any loss and the 
judge had found in the insurers favour.
Mr R was glad that I was proposing to uphold his complaint. However, he made the 
following points:
while he accepts  he made a mistake  in not identifying the loss of the jewellery until ten 
days later, he considers that Tesco and its loss adjuster  treated him with contempt and 
made him feel like a criminal;
the declinature of his claim has had a huge  effect on his ability to obtain home insurance 
and those companies which are willing to insure him are quoting far higher premiums 
than he thinks  he should be paying;
Ref: DRN69006114the declinature of his claim has had an even more  significant effect on his relationship  
with his wife because they were  made  to believe they had lost out due to her oversight;
even if Tesco felt the claim for the loss of the jewellery was unsubstantiated, this didnt 
explain why it didnt  settle the other elements of the claim; and
he was unaware that the Single Article Limit under his policy might restrict any claim 
payment he receives because he was told by the loss adjuster, and believed when he 
took out the policy, that he had adequate cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
I have read the previous ombudsman decisions submitted by Tesco. I agree that they share 
some similarities to Mr Rs complaint. However,  the circumstances are not exactly the same  
and, as Tesco has acknowledged, we judge  each  case on its own merits. I therefore 
consider that the fact the ombudsmen chose to find in the insurers  favour in these  previous  
complaints doesnt  bind me to follow suit in my decision on Mr Rs complaint. 
The same applies in respect of the court case to which Tesco has referred. While I have 
noted this, I dont consider it binds me in respect  of Mr Rs complaint.
Tesco considers  that the cumulative inconsistencies in Mr Rs claim created a highly 
implausible scenario.  As I explained  in my provisional decision, I think it is surprising that 
Mr Rs wife, having been specifically invited by the police to do so, failed  to carry out a 
proper check to ensure  that the jewellery hadnt  been stolen  and that neither she nor Mr R 
carried out a further check  within the next ten days even though these were their most 
valuable possessions and they knew the thieves had been  in that bedroom to steal other 
items. I therefore consider it is no wonder that Tesco approached  the claim with suspicion. 
However, I think the additional factors  cited by Tesco as suspicious were not really  
suspicious. This means there was no accumulation  of inconsistencies and the doubt over the 
claim simply comes down  to its late reporting.  And while that was suspicious, it was not 
completely implausible.  Given that there  was nothing further to add reasonable suspicion, 
while I acknowledge the case  is finely balanced, I am inclined to find in favour of Mr R and 
conclude that Tesco should pay the claim.
Let me now address Mr Rs comments.
As I have explained, the circumstances of his claim would naturally have aroused suspicion.  
I would therefore  have expected Tesco to undertake a rigorous  assessment.  This would 
inevitably involve asking  Mr R for detailed explanations and evidence.  It is unfortunate  if 
Mr R feels he was treated with contempt and made to feel like a criminal but from my 
reading of the file I consider the enquiries which Tesco carried out were reasonable.
Mr R says he is having trouble finding companies  to insure him and those  which are willing 
to do so are quoting far higher  premiums. Mr R hasnt provided evidence  of this but, even if 
he had, I dont see that this is necessarily  anything to do with Tescos  decision to decline his 
claim. Tesco didnt  accuse him of fraud  or cancel his policy, which  certainly might have 
Ref: DRN69006115affected his ability to obtain cover  from other  insurers.  It seems  likely, therefore, that Mr Rs 
insurance risk has been affected by the fact that he suffered a significant loss through  theft 
at his property. This would have happened even if Tesco  had accepted his claim. In the 
absence of evidence  that Tescos  decision  has caused the cost of his insurance to rise, 
I cant reasonably award compensation for this.
I am sorry  if Mr Rs relationship with his wife has suffered as a result of this episode. 
However, I dont think I can hold Tesco responsible for this. The original error was made by 
Mr Rs wife. Ive explained  that Im satisfied that Tescos assessment of the claim was 
carried out in a reasonable manner. I acknowledge that I have  reached  a different conclusion 
to Tesco  in respect of whether the claim should  be paid but I have  also acknowledged that 
the decision is finely balanced. I therefore  dont  consider that Tesco needs to pay 
compensation to Mr R for distress or inconvenience.
Mr R is correct that even if Tesco felt the jewellery claim was unsubstantiated, it should still 
have offered to settle the rest of the claim.  Tesco  has acknowledged  this to me and, if 
I wasnt upholding Mr Rs complaint about  the jewellery claim, this would have been  the 
action I would have  required  Tesco  to take.  Having said that, Mr R wasnt proposing  to 
pursue a claim until he realised that the jewellery  had been  stolen and when he referred his 
complaint to us he didnt  ask Tesco to settle the rest of the claim in the meantime. Given  that 
Mr R apparently didnt  want to make a claim for just the non-jewellery  items,  I dont  think that 
Tescos failure to offer to settle the remainder  of the claim caused him any significant 
disadvantage, disappointment  or inconvenience. I therefore dont consider that any 
compensation is due for this.
In my provisional decision,  I said that Mr Rs policy was subject to a Single Article  Limit of 
£2,000. In fact, this information was incorrect for which I apologise.  The total valuables cover 
under Mr Rs policy is £15,000 with a Single Article  Limit of £15,000. However,  while this 
means the Single Article Limit will no longer restrict the amount which Mr R might  receive  
(because he had no single item worth more than this), his total valuables  cover is inadequate 
and this is likely to mean he unfortunately will not receive full compensation for his loss. It 
seems that the loss adjuster made  a mistake  in advising Mr R he had sufficient cover. While 
this error  is unfortunate, it didnt cause Mr R any financial  disadvantage  because the theft 
had already occurred and so he couldnt have taken  any useful action in any case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to accept Mr Rs claim and to settle it in accordance 
with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6900611