K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1996. Mrs D says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mrs Ds complaint, explaining that Id come to a 
different outcome to our adjudicator.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has responded to my provisional  decision, but the points she has raised have already 
been considered  so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  by 15 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64310192provisional decision copy
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1996 to cover a store 
card she already had. Mrs D says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ds complaint  should be upheld  but I currently dont think  it should. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs D, so Ill explain why.
Mrs D says that she wasnt aware that she was paying for PPI, and only became aware of the policy 
recently. FICL  has provided information that shows that Mrs Ds store card was opened in 1995, and 
the PPI was sold to her during a phone call nearly a year later in 1996.  Theres no call recording 
available, but I wouldnt expect there to be for a sale that took place in 1996. 
FICL has provided a call script that shows that the policy  wouldve been presented  as optional, and 
the representative  wouldve been prompted to get proper consent for the policy to be added to her 
account. I cant be sure how closely this script was followed, but as Mrs D had already had her store 
card for nearly a year before hand, I think she wouldve known she didnt have to have the PPI, 
although I can understand why she may not remember this as it was so long ago.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But 
as I think  she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted this type of cover. 
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint, they felt it should be upheld as Mrs D told us that she 
was unemployed when the policy was taken out  so she wouldnt have been able to claim for the 
main things the policy was designed to cover. But Mrs D has been inconsistent  with what shes told us 
about her circumstances   she originally  told us that she was employed, and had been for seven 
years, around  the time the policy was taken out. She also told us that she was entitled to sick pay. 
Mrs D then said that she became unemployed in 1996, but when we clarified  when exactly  this 
happened, she told us that she stopped working  in 1987, and didnt  return to work until 2000.
I can understand why Mrs D may not remember  these details  its a long time ago. But because  of 
this, I cant  safely say that she wasnt in work at the time she took out the policy. And based on what  
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the other 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend on upholding  this complaint.  FICL and Mrs D can send me anything else they 
wish me to consider before  12 August  2019. After which I will issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6431019