K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC dealt inappropriately with his claim under 
section 75.
background
Mr T used  his Tesco card to purchase some LED lights from an online merchant. When  the 
goods were delivered  he realised hed been  sent the wrong item. Mr T was unable to resolve 
matters directly with the merchant so he complained to Tesco  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  seeking a refund of the purchase price.
Tesco said it wasnt able to take the s75 claim forward because  Mr T wasnt  able to provide 
an invoice for the item hed purchased.
Mr T didnt  feel that Tesco had dealt with his claim fairly. He said when he first contacted 
Tesco hed been told that he would get his money back. He said hed provided Tesco with 
copies of emails between himself and the merchant and photos of the items hed received. 
He wasnt happy  that Tesco told him there  was insufficient information  simply because he 
hadnt provided the purchase invoice.
Our investigator felt that Tesco hadnt  done  anything wrong. She said that without 
confirmation of exactly what  Mr T had purchased, it wasnt possible to establish  whether the 
item hed received was different to the item hed ordered. The investigator said that Tesco 
had raised a chargeback which hadnt  been  challenged  by the merchant and that Mr T had 
received his money back.
Mr T didnt  agree. He didnt accept that there was a lack of information  to support his section  
75 claim and felt that Tesco had acted unfairly  in asking him to provide an invoice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres  been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Ts complaint against  Tesco,  I would 
need to be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that 
Tescos response to the claim  wasnt fair or reasonable.
It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a consumer might have 
under section 75. Rather, in deciding  whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint Ive taken  section 75 into account.  But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T pursued  a claim for breach of 
contract.
I appreciate that when  Mr T initially contacted  Tesco about  the transaction, Tesco  didnt 
explain that any claim would need  to be supported by evidence.  However,  Im satisfied that 
Tesco acted  fairly  in asking Mr T to provide  information to support the claim. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Tesco to ask Mr T to provide an invoice showing what hed purchased, 
Ref: DRN67479832because in order to establish whether there had been a misrepresentation, Tesco would 
need evidence  to show what was ordered  and what was received.  Without  this, I dont think 
Tesco could  have  reached a decision about whether  there had been a misrepresentation, so 
I dont think Tesco acted  unfairly in asking for this information.
I appreciate that Mr T provided Tesco with as much  information as he could and theres  no 
suggestion that the absence of an invoice was Mr Ts fault. I understand his frustration that 
Tesco wasnt willing  to take his claim further without  the invoice. However, from Tescos 
perspective, and as Ive said above, it needed  evidence to show  that there  had been  a 
misrepresentation.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to say that Tesco made  an error or treated 
Mr T unfairly. I can see that Tesco looked  at other  options for Mr T to get his money back 
and ultimately recovered  the funds by chargeback.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6747983