K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Southern Rock  Insurance Company says he is at fault for a claim 
a third party made under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr K was involved  in an incident  with another  driver  in April 2018. A few days later his 
insurer, Southern  Rock wrote to Mr K as it received a claim from the other  drivers 
representative for damage to his car and personal injury  for him and his passenger.
Mr K said he didnt  believe he was at fault for the incident. He said the other  driver didnt 
share his insurance  details or give a correct  contact number at the scene.  Mr K believed  the 
incident was caused deliberately by the other  driver in order to make a claim against  his 
policy. 
However, in May 2018 Southern Rock told Mr K that it intended  to settle  the claim as a fault 
claim. 
In September  2018 Mr K asked  Southern Rock to provide details of the claim as the renewal 
date for his policy was approaching and he wanted to shop around  for quotes. Mr K was very 
unhappy to find out that Southern  Rock  was still dealing with the claim  and so it couldnt 
tell him what the final costs of the claim would  be. Mr K complained to Southern Rock. 
Southern Rock said it had dealt with the claim reasonably. It was still waiting for medical 
evidence from the passenger in the other drivers car before it could finalise the claim.  It 
explained that it had up to three years from the date of the claim to settle it. 
Mr K asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator explained that we dont decide 
liability  but having looked at whether Southern  Rock had properly  investigated the claim, 
he felt it had. So he didnt  recommend Mr Ks complaint should be upheld.  
Mr K didnt agree. He said Southern  Rock  didnt ask for photos of his car to compare with the 
damage to the other drivers car. Mr K believes the other driver wasnt  insured. He doesnt 
believe Southern  Rock has carried out a proper investigation and believes the other  drivers 
claim was fraudulent. 
As Mr K didnt agree,  the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we 
can look at whether an insurer properly investigated the claim and if its decision was 
reached in a reasonable way and in line with the policy.
Mr Ks policy  with Southern Rock  has a very common  term which Ive seen in most   if not 
all car insurance policies. It says Southern Rock can make  a decision as to how to settle  the 
claim on behalf of Mr K. 
Ref: DRN69305172This means  that Southern  Rock may make  a decision  Mr K doesnt  agree with, but the policy  
allows Southern  Rock to do this. We dont  have any objection to this term, in principle,  as 
long as insurers treat their customers fairly  and reasonably when they rely on it. 
Mr K told Southern Rock  that he was halfway across  a roundabout when the other  driver 
came from the right and collided into his car. Mr K believes the other driver was speeding 
and was travelling  in the wrong lane. Mr K didnt claim  for repairs  to his car.
Southern Rock said that based on Mr Ks description it wouldnt be able to defend the claim 
 as the onus  was on Mr K to give way to the right at the roundabout. It explained that it 
wouldnt be able to prove the other driver was speeding. Southern Rock said the engineers  
report it received was sufficient to show that the damage to the other  drivers car was 
consistent with the incident circumstances. And because  a collision had occurred,  it 
accepted the personal injury claim. 
Southern Rock explained that it hadnt yet settled the claim as it was waiting for medical  
evidence from the other  drivers passenger. The third party solicitor explained that it would 
be providing this evidence. So Southern Rock said it couldnt finalise the claim   and that it 
had up three  years  to settle the claim   so it hadnt caused undue  delay. 
I understand that Mr K feels the other  drivers claim may be a scam. But Southern Rock has 
received a claim from a third party for an incident  that both parties say took place. And its 
carried out reasonable checks and received evidence of damage and injury which is 
consistent with the circumstances  of the incident.  So I cant safely conclude  that Southern 
Rock has done  anything wrong  
I realise Mr K will be disappointed with my decision.  But based on what Ive seen, I think 
Southern Rock has acted reasonably and in line with the policy.  This means  I think its 
decision to meet the other driver and passengers claim is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6930517