K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited has declined a claim 
she made on her policy, and added an unfair exclusion.
background
Mrs B has held a lifetime insurance policy for her dog with Red Sands since  15 January 
2017. In April 2018, Mrs B made a claim for the cost of treating  her dog for brachycephalic 
obstructive airway syndrome (BOAS).
Red Sands  reviewed the dogs clinical notes and saw one note in particular which  suggested 
the dog had been diagnosed with pinched  nostrils, a common  symptom of BOAS,  just a few 
weeks after the policy started. The note said Mrs B was already considering BOAS surgery  
around that time as her dogs breathing  was getting  worse with age. It therefore felt it 
needed more  information about  when the symptoms  started  before it could accept the claim.
Red Sands  asked Mrs B to confirm the date she first noticed her dogs  bad breathing prior to 
the appointment with her vet. Mrs B initially said that it was approximately  one month before 
the appointment. When pressed for an exact  date she said the exact date we noticed the 
breathing problem was the 20th of January.
Red Sands  noticed  that this date was within the first 14 days of the policy. It told Mrs B that 
any illness that first showed clinical signs within 14 days  of the policy  starting was excluded,  
so it wasnt prepared to pay the claim. It also highlighted  that its policy wording gave it the 
right to add an exclusion  to the policy  if the dog showed clinical  signs  of an illness  within the 
14 day waiting period. So it added an exclusion in relation to all claims with respect to the 
respiratory system with effect from the date the policy started.
Mrs B complained as she felt Red Sands  had treated her unfairly.  She said it had assumed 
she meant 20 January  2017, when shed meant 20 January 2018, which was roughly a 
month before she visited the vet to arrange  the BOAS surgery  she later claimed for. She 
thought it had also taken the clinical note out of context. Shed merely enquired about BOAS 
surgery in February 2017 as she knew  her dogs breed was prone to getting  it in later life.
Red Sands  didnt change its position on the claim. An investigator here looked into Mrs Bs 
complaint, but didnt  think it should  be upheld. She felt, given the veterinary evidence, it was 
more likely that Mrs B had meant 20 January 2017.  She thought Red Sands was entitled to 
rely on the clinical notes  and Mrs Bs testimony  to decline  the claim.  And she thought  it was 
reasonable for Red Sands to add the exclusion  to the policy.
As Mrs B was unhappy,  the matter  was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in April. In the provisional decision I said:
Mrs Bs policy started on 15 January 2017  and excludes illnesses  that show  clinical  signs  
within the first 14 days. So the first thing for me to decide is whether Red Sands has done  
enough to show  that Mrs Bs dog was showing clinical signs of BOAS  within 14 days of her 
policy starting.
Ref: DRN68071802Mrs B has mentioned that the condition wasnt diagnosed  until later. But what I need to 
consider is when she became aware  there was something wrong,  regardless of whether it 
had been formally diagnosed at that point.
When Mrs B told Red Sands that she first noticed  her dogs bad breathing  on 20 January,  
she could have meant either 2017 or 2018.  So Ive thought about which is more likely. I think 
its clear that Mrs Bs dog was already suffering  from symptoms  of BOAS by the time it was 
taken to the vet on 13 February 2017.  Thats because the vet examined  the dog and 
commented on its very stenotic nares  (pinched nostrils). These were eventually  corrected 
as part of the surgery Mrs B later sought to claim for.
I also think it would have  been reasonably clear from Red Sands correspondence that it was 
asking Mrs B for the date that she first noticed her dogs bad breathing prior to the 
appointment on 13 February  2017. This was the only appointment Red Sands mentioned in 
its correspondence. So if Mrs B was referring  to a different appointment  in her response, I 
think she would have  said so at the time.
The vets note of the appointment said Mrs B asked about BOAS surgery  because  her dogs 
breathing was getting worse with age. This is consistent with the testimony set out by 
Mrs Bs husband in his complaint letter dated 21 June 2018. In the letter, he said Mrs B 
arranged the appointment as a precaution because she noticed  her dog was a bit snuffly on 
occasion but it would often pass. These both suggest that Mrs B had observed a gradual 
deterioration in her dogs ability to breathe  before  the appointment on 13 February  2017.
Mrs Bs husband added in his letter that, during the appointment, the vet explained that the 
dogs naval cavities were  reducing his oxygen  intake. And I note that in May 2017,  Mrs B 
was referred to another vet to discuss BOAS surgery. That vet wrote to the original  vet 
confirming that the dog showed classic signs of BOAS and that the dogs prognosis  and 
treatment options  had been  discussed  with Mrs Bs husband,  who intended to discuss 
options with his wife.
Taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded Mrs B didnt become aware of her 
dogs bad breathing until January 2018. On balance, the evidence leads me to think  its more 
likely Mrs B gave  an accurate response  when she said the exact date we noticed the 
breathing problem was the 20th or January and that she was referring to 20 January 2017.
This date is more consistent  with the history  of the dogs symptoms  set out in the clinical 
notes, and the testimony set out in her husbands complaint letter.
As this was in the first 14 days of Mrs Bs policy, Red Sands was entitled to decline her 
claim. The exclusion was made clear  in the Key Facts document provided  with Mrs Bs 
policy documentation, so I think Red Sands  did enough to bring it to her attention.
Whilst I think it was fair for Red Sands  to refuse  the claim, I dont think it acted fairly by 
applying an exclusion to Mrs Bs policy for the respiratory system and backdating this to the 
start date.
I accept theres a term in the policy giving Red Sands the right to add an exclusion if the dog 
showed any clinical signs of an illness  within the 14 day waiting  period.  But the term says an 
exclusion can be added for this clinical signillness  or condition. The exclusion Red Sands 
has added  is much wider and excludes cover  for the whole respiratory system. Thats  not 
line with the policy terms, which  allow it to add an exclusion for the specific  condition.
Ref: DRN68071803In addition, I need to decide  what I think is fair and reasonable  taking into account all the 
circumstances of the complaint, and including the relevant law.
The remedy  to turn back the clock and apply an exclusion retrospectively is set out in the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). CIDRA  sets a 
duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. But it applies 
to representations made when a contract is entered into (or varied). For a remedy  to be 
available to Red Sands  under CIDRA,  it would need to establish that Mrs B failed to answer 
a clear question about  her dogs health with reasonable care. It would also need to show that 
if Mrs B had taken reasonable care, it would only have offered her a policy which  excluded  
cover for issues with the respiratory system.
Red Sands  has said that Mrs Bs dog first showed clinical  signs of BOAS  five days into the 
policy. It hasnt been able to establish that there was anything Mrs B should have told it 
about her dogs health before the policy began, which would have resulted in it only offering 
a policy  without cover for respiratory issues. And she couldnt have disclosed something that 
hadnt happened yet. So there was no misrepresentation of her dogs condition.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it was fair for Red Sands to add the exclusion to 
Mrs Bs policy. So I intend  to direct Red Sands to remove  it.
developments and findings
Neither party has made any further  comments in reply to my provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, in the absence of any new 
information, I see no reason to change my conclusions. So my view remains  that it was fair 
for Red Sands to refuse  the claim,  but it wasnt fair to add the exclusion and this should  be 
removed from the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Red Sands Insurance  
Company (Europe) Limited  to remove the exclusion for claims relating to the respiratory  
system from the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807180