K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma (Satsuma) irresponsibly  
lent to him. He says the borrowing was unaffordable when taking into account his income 
and expenditure.  Mr B has said his credit history  would  show  he wasnt  credit  worthy. 
background
This complaint is about a short-term loan Satsuma provided to Mr B in May 2015. The 
amount borrowed  was £700 and it was to be repaid over a 12 month period.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given. 
Satsuma disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for 
decision in my role as ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN62570542Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Like the adjudicator  I dont think  
Satsuma should  have lent to Mr B.
Satsuma has told us of the affordability  checks it carried out before lending  to Mr B. This 
involved asking Mr B about his monthly income and expenditure,  and cross referencing that 
information with additional information  gathered  from its own credit-file search. It also 
compared Mr Bs financial  position  with similar  customers in similar financial circumstances 
as Mr B. As a result of this check if it suggested that additional expenditure would  be 
expected it used a higher expenditure figure than stated by Mr B to represent his outgoings.  
In the case of Mr B, he told Satsuma  that his monthly  income was £1,800  and outgoings 
were £650.  As a result of its checks,  Satsuma added an additional £1,009.13 to Mr Bs 
outgoings in order  to reflect his expenditure as fairly as possible. So, in total Satsuma 
concluded that Mr Bs monthly outgoings were  £1,659.13 which when deducted from his 
income left him with a disposable income  of £140.87  a month. 
The monthly repayment on the loan Mr B took with Satsuma was £110.83. Taking  all of the 
above into account, Mr B would be left with £30.04 of disposable income  each month which I 
dont think is sufficient.  And particularly bearing in mind this loan was to be repaid over 
12 months. I think  it extremely unlikely Mr B wouldnt have any unexpected  financial 
demands during  that period. 
In conclusion I dont  think Satsuma should  have  lent to Mr B. I think  the borrowing was 
unsustainable when  taking into account how little Mr B would  be left with each month,  and 
being over a 12 month period. 
So, Im also upholding  the complaint and Satsuma should put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do 
As far as I am aware  there  is an outstanding balance on the loan and if the outstanding 
balance due on Mr Bs loan has been  transferred to a third-party Satsuma should buy the 
loan back if it can. If Satsuma cant buy the loan back, then it needs  to work with the third 
party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest,  fees and 
charges on the loan without an outstanding  balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr B which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN62570543C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding  loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding  loan.  
If this results  in Mr B having made  overpayments  then Satsuma should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Satsuma should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus,  then the surplus should  be paid to Mr B. However, if there  is still 
an outstanding  balance then Satsuma should try to agree  an affordable  repayment  
plan with Mr B. 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr B still has an outstanding  balance due, then Satsuma should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr B in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr B fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Provident Personal Credit 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6257054