K821x#15Complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way The National Farmers  Union Mutual  Insurance Society  
Limited (NFU) handled an escape of water claim under  her property insurance policy.  
All references to NFU include  their agents.
Background
Towards the end of July 2017 Miss G found damage  caused  by an escape of water  in her 
study so she informed NFU. The water  seemed  to be escaping  from the bathroom  above. 
Within a few days  of discovering the water damage  Miss G arranged  for her own plumber to 
visit. He fixed a leaking fitting found  in the ceiling void that was below the bathroom and 
above the study. 
At the beginning  of August 2017,  NFU attended the property to assess the damage.  They  
disposed of some damaged furniture and installed dehumidifiers in the study where most of 
the damage seemed to be at the time. 
 
At the end of September  2017, Miss G informed NFU that her dining room,  which  is next to 
the study, was now full of mould and mildew including  some  possessions she had stored  in 
there. She asked for the entire wall in the dining room  that was affected by the water 
damage to be brought down to bare bricks immediately  along with the study wall and ceiling 
- but this was not done until sometime later because NFU spent approximately seven weeks 
drying the area from mid - September 2017 onwards. 
At the beginning  of October 2017, upon  further examination of the property, NFU discovered 
further leaks. During most of this time NFU was investigating whether Miss G was 
underinsured so reinstatement work wasnt really started until this issue  was resolved.
  
In October  2017, Miss G ordered  a caravan  to use as alternative accommodation because of 
the mould that was in her house. Miss G used  the caravan for a few weeks  and NFU then 
agreed they would  make  some upgrades to an outbuilding, which is located on her property, 
so this could be used as alternative  accommodation.  This meant  Miss G would be able to 
stay with her animals on site while the reinstatement  works took place at the main  house. 
For a short  period of time Miss G and her family  did stay in the outbuilding but Miss G says,  
due to the unfinished condition of the outbuilding  it wasnt  habitable, and so they couldnt 
stay there  for a prolonged period of time. 
Most of the building work on the main house was due to be completed before Christmas 
2017 but this didnt  happen. Miss G says this was due to NFUs contractors. But NFUs 
contractors say it was due to Miss G making  demands for further work that they would 
consider betterment,  and therefore not covered  under  the insurance policy.  
Whilst the reinstatement works took place  things didnt go as planned. There were situations  
where things in Miss Gs home were damaged and the relationship between Miss G and 
NFUs contractors became strained at times.  In January 2018, Miss G explained that she 
wasnt happy for NFUs contractors to come back and finish  the reinstatement works. NFU 
have paid Miss G for some of the damages  that were previously caused  by them and both 
parties have used their best endeavours to try to reach agreement on most of the 
outstanding issues.  But there were  elements  of the claim  which both parties could not agree 
on so Miss G brought her complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN69738252Our investigator looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. He was of the opinion that 
NFU should  pay Miss G for clothing and a rug damaged by paint in the cloakroom, as well as 
the bronze tap in that room. He said that NFU should also pay Miss G £250 for the utility 
costs and a further  £428.58 towards the Christmas food that was spoiled. 
In regards to alternative accommodation, the investigator thought  that if NFU could source  
similar accommodation to Miss Gs home for the duration of the repairs then this was 
reasonable. And in regards to the mould/moth  damaged clothing raised, he thought that NFU 
was responsible for this part of the claim,  but felt that they didnt automatically need to settle  
this element in cash or by way of replacement - if suitable cleaning  arrangements can be 
made.
He was of the opinion  that NFU were  not required to pay Miss G for medical bills she 
incurred, nor for an iPhone, a broken  wall lamp, a toilet seat and tights. He thought the 
£1,500 compensation paid by NFU for the poor customer service received and £12,500 
offered for disturbance  allowance  was fair. 
Both Miss G and NFU disagreed with certain aspects of what  the investigator  said. So the 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision.    
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 31 July 2019. In the provisional 
decision I explained that I intended  to uphold the complaint in part and I wrote:
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I intend to uphold  the complaint in part 
although Ive reached a different conclusion  to our investigator - I will explain why. 
£150,000 award  limit
There is a financial limit over which the Financial  Ombudsman Service has no power to 
make a legally  binding award.  In this complaint the award limit that applies is £150,000.
NFU says there  are elements of the claim which have been settled with Miss G whilst the 
complaint has been with the ombudsman service.  NFU believes this should be taken into 
account when  considering  the total award which can be made  by our service. Effectively 
NFU doesnt  think it would be fair for us to make an award of £150,000 on top of whats 
already been paid whilst the complaint has been with us. 
They say this is because  it would disadvantage an insurer who is trying  to be pragmatic and 
fair in attempting to settle a claim once it has been referred to the ombudsman service.  NFU 
goes on to say the payments made are more than what NFU thinks  is reasonable, and were 
made in an attempt to  resolve the matter.  And they believe it would be inequitable  and 
inappropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service to disregard these interim payments 
which were made since they were  referred to us by Miss G as part of this complaint. 
In this particular  case I can make a binding money  award of up to £150,000.  The award limit 
here applies only to the parts of the claim in dispute  and not to the parts of the claim that 
NFU have already  settled  with Miss G. NFU had the choice of whether or not to make any 
offers to Miss G. And it isnt for me to consider these.
Ref: DRN69738253NFU says Miss G told them our service  recommended they should look to settle some 
elements of the claim where possible, so those payments  made should now be factored  into 
the overall award limit. But I have not seen any evidence to show that this service has been 
actively involved in any of the negotiations, and it was for Miss G and NFU to agree or 
disagree on any final settlements that were made between them. 
I will now address the remaining parts of Miss Gs claim which  are still in dispute, and the 
£150,000 award  limit will apply to what  Ive outlined below.
Medical bills
Miss G believes NFU should reimburse  her an amount of £3,603.23 for the medical 
expenses she incurred  for herself  and her family. She has explained she needed  to seek 
additional medical assistance during the claim because of the mould and dust she and her 
family were exposed to whilst NFU was dealing with the claim. Miss G has highlighted 
herself and her family  member have severe allergies to mould and dust  and this was 
affected by NFUs failure to control the amount of dust and mould she and her family  were 
exposed to as a result of the claim. She believes NFU shouldve allowed her family  to move 
into alternative accommodation sooner than they did. 
Having looked  at the information provided, I can see both parties  agreed  that NFU would 
renovate the outbuilding so that Miss G and her family could live onsite while the 
reinstatement works  were  being  completed   but I think NFU caused approximately  a three 
month delay at the beginning  of the claim while they were looking into whether Miss G was 
underinsured. During this time, water was seeping into the ceiling and walls causing further 
damage and mould, and Miss G and her family  lived in the house. Considering  Miss G, from 
the beginning of the claim, was telling NFU that she was very allergic to dust and mould,  I 
think most likely  they shouldve arranged alternative  accommodation for her and her family 
sooner. 
Miss G has provided a letter from her doctor and evidence of visits to the doctor after the 
escape of water. The letter says that Miss G is extremely allergic  to mould and dust. Living 
in this circumstance caused her to develop allergic  reactions never previously  experienced 
and unfortunately  now require  her to be treated daily with medication  to keep her symptoms  
at bay. It goes on to say that, a family  member  living with Miss G developed various allergic 
reactions not present previously. Some of the allergic reactions were  so severe that this 
person developed angio-oedema,  a potentially life threatening  condition.  
The doctor then  goes on to say that because of this another doctor  referred Miss G and her 
family member to see an allergist,  and it was found that both of them were in a heightened 
allergic state despite neither having these reactions previously. The doctor  in the letter goes 
on to say that Looking at the medical history of Miss G and her family I can factually state  
that they were  more  unwell from August 2017  than they ever had been  before, with more 
visits to my predecessor than ever before. 
Given the information from the doctor, Im satisfied that Miss G and her family  did experience 
medical problems  as a result of the dust and mould in the property. 
For me to ask NFU to pay Miss Gs full medical  expenses I would have to be persuaded, on 
balance, that all of the medical expenses for the health issues  experienced by Miss G and 
her family were  likely to have been  incurred as a direct  result  of the way NFU handled her 
Ref: DRN69738254claim. Miss Gs doctor does mention there  were  more visits after the claim than before, but 
without Miss G providing us with further  evidence outlining the frequency  of visits and 
treatments during the claim  compared to before, I cant say that NFU should reimburse her 
for all the medical  expenses. 
Also, I agree  with NFU that Miss Gs own builders  failure to take adequate dust prevention 
measures prior to removing the wall and ceiling in the study most likely contributed to the 
dust Miss G and her family wouldve been  exposed  to at that time. Taking this into 
consideration, and without  any further medical  evidence, I think it is fair and reasonable that 
NFU only pays  Miss G for half of the medical expenses  to take into account their part in the 
problem  a total of £1,801.62 plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.  
Clothing and rug damaged by paint in the cloakroom
Miss G says NFUs contractors damaged about  £15,231  of her clothing and a £141.04 rug 
when cleaning their painting tools in her cloakroom.  She says she raised  this with NFU in the 
third week  of December 2017  and in January 2018 she was told to put the clothing in a bag 
at the front of the house, which she did. 
NFU say Miss G didnt tell them about the clothes.  They have provided a statement from the 
contractor which says they were authorised to use the cloakroom to wash  their brushes. 
They also say the paint used by them was water based so it was washable, meaning it 
would have been possible to clean the clothes to put them back  to their pre-damage  
condition. 
NFU says its not fair to conclude that damage was caused to Miss Gs clothing and rug just 
because their builders used paint in the house, and there is no causal link between these 
two events.   
So I need to weigh up the statement from NFUs  contractor with Miss Gs testimony. I need 
to decide what  I think is most likely to have  happened. 
NFUs contractor in his statement confirms the painters were using that room to clean their 
brushes for approximately a month.  NFUs contractor also says that late in December 2017, 
Miss G pointed  out some splashes to him in the cloakroom. The contractor goes  on to say 
there  was  no mention  of damaged clothing and the damage discussed was only about paint 
and chips on the vanity unit, which he says they couldve polished  out. However, they 
discussed that they would sort it out in the New Year. 
But, from the pictures provided by Miss G, I can see the damage caused  to the clothing and 
the rug consists of what appear  to me to be building material spillages/splatter/drip/flick 
marks. This damage looks to me like the same  type of damage that is found on the vanity  
unit  for which NFUs  contractors accept  responsibility. 
I find these pictures persuasive.  Having  taken all of the evidence  into consideration, I think 
its more likely than not that the damage caused to the clothes and rug was caused by NFUs 
contractors who were  using the cloakroom to clean their tools. 
NFU says,  if the clothes  are deemed  to be a part of the claim, they were  denied  the 
opportunity to attempt  to clean them at a much  lower price than the cost of having them 
replaced. Miss G says she was asked  by NFU to bag the clothing  up and leave it out in the 
Ref: DRN69738255front of the house in early January 2018 during NFUs visit to the house. NFU says this didnt 
happen.  
But, overall, I think NFU did have an opportunity to look at the clothes. I say this because 
after Miss G said she spoke to the contractors  about  the damage in December 2017 she 
followed this conversation up with an email to NFU on the same  day. In that email  she talks 
about how the painters were using her cloakroom to wash their paint filled rollers and 
brushes and how the cabinet and items on top of it are covered  in paint. She then goes on to 
talk about the rug and paint on her clothes,  and in the email  she says she made NFUs  
contractor aware of this. At this point  Im satisfied that NFU should have made arrangements 
to inspect the clothes,  to move this matter forward. But, regardless of whether Miss G was 
told to bag the clothes or not, NFU didnt do this.  
If the clothes  were bagged  and left in front of the house in January 2018, as Im satisfied 
from Miss Gs testimony that they were, this means  NFU had the opportunity  to look at the 
damaged clothes on more than one occasion   first in December 2017 and then later at the 
beginning of January 2018.  NFU says they wouldve wanted an opportunity to wash the 
clothes first so most likely I think they did ask her to bag the clothes. Its not clear  whether 
these were collected by NFU or their contractors. And if not, why this didnt happen. But, I 
think NFU did have  the opportunity to view and attempt to wash  the clothes, and they didnt 
do this. The clothes arent available now. So, Ive needed to think about how NFU should 
move this forward, to ensure Miss G is compensated  for her loss.
Overall taking all the above  into consideration I think NFU should pay Miss G for the 
replacement of these  items due to their contractors negligence.  But a reduction  in value has 
to be taken into consideration  because Miss G wouldve had some  use of these  items  and 
some items from the pictures Ive seen  show signs of wear and tear. Miss G provided a list 
and pictures of the 11 items that were damaged by paint. Where  I can see from the pictures 
that an item was as good as new, I think it is fair and reasonable for NFU to pay full value for 
those items.  These include item number 8, 10 and 11 for a total of £2,609.04. 
Where the pictures  are not as clear, due to the quality or viewpoint of the picture,  it is difficult  
to determine how much depreciation should  be contributed to those specific  items. So I think  
that most  reasonable outcome is for NFU to pay half of the value listed for those items 
because some of these might have  been  in perfect  condition while  other items might  have 
been at the end of their life span.  50% of the listed value provided  by Miss G for those items 
comes to £6,381.50.  If either party thinks they have  a more reasonable way to calculate this 
loss or further evidence  that would help with quantifying the above they should let me know. 
Otherwise, I think  it is fair and reasonable  that together NFU should  pay Miss G a total of 
£8,990.54 for the clothing and rug damaged by paint, plus interest on this amount  at 8% 
simple per year from the date of the loss to the date of settlement.
Mould/moth damaged  clothing: 
Miss G and NFU havent been able to reach agreement on 95 items  of clothing worth  
£112,272.92, which were  stored in one of the rooms  affected by the escape of water. The 
clothing in question was in boxes  and bags when it was moved  into the dining room following 
Miss G finding the escape of water in the study.  Rugs/blankets were  brought in from the 
outbuilding and used  to cover and protect the furniture  and clothing.  
Ref: DRN69738256It isnt clear if it was Miss Gs employees or NFUs  contractors who originally brought  the 
blankets over from the outbuilding. These rugs/blankets  were later found  to contain moth 
eggs/larvae. Also, at the time the clothes were moved in to the dining room, it was not known 
that this room too would  be affected by the escape of water.  When it was later discovered  
that the escape of water  had also affected the dining room wall, NFU brought in driers and 
fans which Miss G says eventually caused the growth of mould and mildew that affected the 
clothes and her furniture. 
NFU says Miss Gs policy explicitly excludes  both moth and mould  damage.  They  say that 
when the claim for moth damage was raised  they had the causal chain reviewed by a law 
firm, which  concluded that based on the facts the proximate cause of the damage was not 
the escape of water.  I think the causation arguments presented  by NFUs law firm need  to be 
explored in my decision. 
NFU is arguing that based on Leyland Shipping Company v. Norwich Union Fire insurance 
Society [1917] 1 K.B. 873 (Leyland), an insured peril must be the proximate cause of the 
loss claimed under the policy. They argue that in Wayne  Tank  and Pump  Co. Ltd. v 
Employers Liability  Assurance Corporation Ltd. [1974] Q.B. 57 the court  interpreted  
proximate as the predominant, effective  cause which is determined  by applying a common-
sense approach, but even if there  are two causes that are the proximate cause in equal  or 
near equal measure,  one being excepted and the other covered under the policy, the 
exception takes  priority  and the insured cannot  recover. When  determining  which  cause is 
the most  predominant  and effective, they say courts have regard to the extent and effect  of 
its role in the loss, and not by how close it was in time to that damage as seen in the case of 
Leyland. So NFU say that Miss G has to establish that the moth-damaged clothing  was 
proximately caused  by the incident   here, the escape of water.  
NFU goes on to say that the but for test can be useful in identifying potential  causes  but it is 
not as useful when distinguishing the proximate cause from, say, a remote  cause  of the 
damage. So NFU is saying that the argument  but for the escape of water  the damage would 
not have occurred, is not enough to establish  the escape of water as the proximate cause. 
NFU considers that the escape of water was the remote cause and the moth-infestation is 
the proximate  cause of the damage to the clothing because  the clothes were  damaged  by 
moths and not by water  ingress or damp. The damage required the introduction of the 
rugs/blankets which  was sufficiently separate to the escape of water.  NFU says the drying-
out works  couldve accelerated or exacerbated  the moth infestation, but it still would not 
make the escape  of water a proximate cause  of the damage.
NFU also says it can further be argued  that it took the environment created by the incident,  
acting with the presence of moth larvae, to cause the damage to the clothes. But even  then, 
unless one cause  is clearly more decisive than the other as the proximate cause,  it should  
be accepted that there are two equally dominant  causes. One of these  would be covered by 
the policy as the insured event  the escape  of water. And the other would be covered by the 
exclusion for moth and mould damage  in the policy. And if this was the case NFU say they 
could rely upon  the exclusion in the policy  because, according to case law, exception takes 
priority over the general words of the policy. 
I understand NFUs legal arguments about proximate cause and the case law they say 
applies and Ive had regard to this. However,  Im not bound to strictly follow  the law so Ive 
also thought about what I think the fair and reasonable outcome is in the circumstances of 
this claim.   
Ref: DRN69738257Ive taken into account the fact that the clothes were not only affected by moths, as some of 
them were  also affected by mould.   
NFU says that when  this claim was first initiated  as one for moth damage, they concluded 
that the proximate  cause  was not the escape  of water so they issued a repudiation of this 
element of the claim to Miss G, and that following this she changed the claim to clothes 
having been affected by moth  and/or  mould  damage. However, Ive seen an email  Miss G 
sent to NFU at the end of September  2017 in which she says that the dining room  is now full 
of mould and mildew,  including  my possessions that are stored in there. So I dont think its 
fair for NFU to say it was only moth and not mould  damage that was brought to their 
attention at that time. 
In addition, Ive thought  about whether its fair for NFU to apply the causation  argument to 
exclude the whole claim,  and I dont think it is. This is because all 95 items should 
reasonably be considered  as 95 individual items claimed for, rather  than 95 parts of one 
overall claim. Some of the units of clothing  are likely to have  been  damaged  by mould,  some  
by moths  and some  by both moths and mould.  Others might have not been damaged at all  
Ill explain  below. 
NFU arranged for an expert to examine some of the clothing at the beginning of May 2018.  A 
total of 39 of the 95 items were  examined. NFU says there is no actual mould growth evident 
on the clothing and the spores present are at a level that could be cleaned with standard 
washing or dry cleaning,  and not unusual for the living  environment  of the property where  
Miss G resides. 
But Ive reviewed the report and it doesnt indicate  whether washing or dry cleaning would 
remove the spores from the items  of clothing.  The report shows  approximately  a quarter of 
the 39 items tested had at least 200 plus spores colony forming units per 100 cm2. It seems  
the expert refers to any units that are 200 colony forming units and above as high.  Also the 
expert says that only five of the 39 items had no colony forming  units at all. Based on this 
information I cant say that it is more  likely  than not that washing or dry cleaning  would  get 
rid of the mould spores and, considering Miss Gs and her family members  medical  
conditions, I think it is reasonable to conclude the higher  count items  would  likely  have a 
negative impact on their health. 
NFU also says the report shows some items had stains/marks  not consistent with mould  
growth but more  consistent with general  wear and being kept in a pet-friendly environment. 
NFU says this is inconsistent with Miss G advising that her housekeeper was steaming and 
cleaning clothing  items three hours  a day five days a week to prevent mould, which they say 
would seem at odds with the condition of the clothing observed  by forensic experts.  
However, Im not satisfied  that the presence of animal hair on some of the items of clothing 
means that Miss G doesnt take care in trying to prevent mould.  
Turning to the moth damage, the experts  report says a large  number of the items  inspected 
had irregular shaped holes consistent with damage from moth  larvae. It seems 
approximately 60% of the 39 items  that were tested have this damage. So once again I dont 
think the moth causation  argument could be reasonably  applied  to all 95 items.  
NFU says there  was evidence of pre-existing moth damage on the clothing, as demonstrated 
by the stitching and dry cleaning labels. NFU says this contradicts what  Miss G told them  in 
December 2017   that she has never had previous problems with moths and/or mould. I can 
Ref: DRN69738258see from the experts report that there  was only one item of clothing mentioned that had a 
dry cleaning  label attached which pre-dated the water leaks.  The report  says this item had a 
hand-written label that said "holes all over". However I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence which would  lead me to conclude  its more likely than not that these  holes were  
created by moths. And even if I were to accept that this damage to a single item was caused 
by moths, it doesnt  seem fair or reasonable to me to automatically conclude that the 94 
other items of clothing were similarly  moth damaged. 
Overall, it is difficult  to establish with certainty  which items were  damaged  by mould,  which 
were damaged by moths and which  were  damaged by both or neither of the two. I say this 
because the expert commissioned by NFU only examined 39 of the 95 items. I dont think an 
examination of 41% of the items necessarily provides an accurate reflection  of the condition 
of the remaining 59%.  Ive also borne  in mind that the items were  in storage for 
approximately seven  months before they were  examined. I think  its likely some cross  
contamination couldve occurred between the moth and mould  damage during  this time. I 
say that because the expert report mentions the potential for cross-contamination. NFU say 
they would  be happy for another independent  forensic expert to examine  the clothing  and 
provide comment,  but considering how long everything has now been stored together and 
what the expert has said about a potential for cross  contamination,  I think a new report 
would be of limited  value. 
Another reason  why I dont think it is fair and reasonable to apply  the moth and/or mould  
exclusion of Miss Gs policy is because NFU at the beginning caused approximately  three  
months delay while  they were looking  into whether Miss G was underinsured. They were 
negligent by not attending to the leak sooner. I think most likely if this delay  didnt occur, the 
other leaks wouldve  been found earlier, and most  likely the escape  of water wouldnt have 
spread to the dining room where  the 95 items  of clothing were  located. So considering  this, I 
dont think it is reasonable to say that the moth and/or mould exclusions of the policy applies.   
NFU also says that damaged clothing  was not brought to their attention  for some  time and 
they were not aware of its location or value.  They  go on to say if there  was serious  concern 
that the clothing was at risk of being damaged then  this element of the claim shouldve been  
raised sooner.  Miss G says bags/boxes  of clothing  were discovered later because  they were  
hidden from view behind furniture that NFU had moved and covered over in the dining room.  
Cushions and other items  had been piled on them so that NFU had more space to do work. 
The boxes were  only later discovered because mould developed on some of the furniture. 
Ive seen the email  Miss G sent to NFU at the end of September  2017, when she told NFU 
shed discovered  items  in the dining room which were affected by mould. NFU waited until 
November 2017  to pick up the clothing.  However I also think Miss G could reasonably  have 
asked someone else to go into the room  where the clothes were  to check on their condition 
from time to time or have  someone else remove the items if she wasnt  able to do that 
herself because of her mould allergies. 
In summary:
-I dont think its fair and reasonable for NFU to rely on the principles set out in the 
case-law they have  presented to exclude  this element of the claim in its entirety. I 
dont think its possible to fairly quantify  exactly how much  damage was caused by 
mould and/or moths and to which specific items.  Also cross contamination most likely  
occurred before and after NFUs  expert  examined the items.
Ref: DRN69738259-Also I dont  think it is fair and reasonable to apply the moth  and/or mould exclusions 
of the policy  because had it not been for NFUs negligence in causing  approximately 
three months delay  most likely the other leaks wouldve been found sooner, and the 
escape of water  wouldnt have spread to the dining room where the clothes were 
located.
-NFU shouldve acted  sooner to prevent the possibility of some of the damage getting  
worse but Miss G couldve mitigated her losses too. 
-There is no clear  evidence  to show the quality and condition  of each item before and 
after being  placed  in the dining  room, but a reduction in value has to be taken  into 
consideration. This is because Miss G wouldve had some use of them  items and 
some items most likely had signs  of wear and tear before  they were  placed in the 
dining room.
Overall taking the above into consideration and in the absence of a more accurate means of 
quantifying the cause of the damage  to each individual  item,  I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for NFU to pay half of the amount claimed for. So NFU should pay Miss G 
£56,136.46 for the mould/moth  damaged  clothing  plus 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement. 
Alternative accommodation
Miss Gs property  still needs work carried out to it. NFU says they are willing to arrange 
suitable alternative accommodation  via one of their sourcing companies.  This would be 
provided for the period  of time that the insurance  related works will take as scheduled  by the 
contractor who Miss G has hired  to provide the reinstatement quote  for the works.  NFU also 
said they are willing  to pay costs associated in moving some reasonable items required to 
the alternative accommodation. 
NFU says the £4,000 - £5,000 a month Airbnb estimate given by Miss G (which they have 
not seen and therefore dont know what the proposed propertys specifications  are) appears 
excessive. NFU have provided a list of four homes that are all four or five bedroom detached 
houses within 15 miles of Miss Gs location.  The prices for these per month range from 
£1,500 to £1,700. Therefore, NFU thinks a reasonable alternative  accommodation  cost 
would be approximately  £8,000. Alternatively,  NFU says if the properties are not acceptable 
to Miss G they are willing to pay her £8,000 in settlement of this part of the claim.  
Miss G says her contractors will need  approximately 14 weeks  to complete the works plus 
an additional  week for cleaning, airing out the premises, snagging and moving back in. She 
has provided our service with estimates  of comparable properties  to her home on Airbnb 
which range  from approximately £4,000 to £5,000 a month. So she is of the opinion that 
alternative accommodation with all associated costs including horse  stabling  for two horses, 
moving fees, both to and from the alternative  accommodations, and utilities will come to a 
total of £25,000.
Miss Gs insurance policy says NFU will pay for reasonable costs  of similar accommodations 
for her, her family and domestic pets.  NFU may be able to obtain  this at a cheaper cost than 
what Miss G has been quoted, so I think it is reasonable  that NFU should be provided with 
the option of arranging the alternative accommodations  through  their sourcing companies.  
The property sourced for Miss G doesnt have  to be exact match to her home, but NFU have 
to take into account  that the property  has at least the same  amount of bedrooms as her 
Ref: DRN697382510home and is within a reasonable distance  to it. Some of the properties NFU proposed  were  
within 15 miles. I think this distance  range seems reasonable. 
Also, these properties  have to be pet friendly so that Miss G can move  with all her domestic  
pets into the home including her horses. Miss Gs policy  defines  DOMESTIC as Relating to 
the private activities of YOU or YOUR  FAMILY.  WE do not cover  any business or profession,  
including growing agricultural or horticultural produce, or rearing livestock for profit., so I 
think it is reasonable that her horses  would be included in this definition. I say this because 
Miss G uses  them for private activities  and not for business or profession,  or as livestock for 
profit.   
If NFU cant source an alternative accommodation  that allows for keeping of the horses, then 
I think it is fair and reasonable that they pay for livery  for them,  as well as transport to and 
from the livery. Miss G will be unable to look after and/or make sure that the horses are safe 
while she is staying at the alternative  accommodation. Also the person that looks  after 
Miss Gs pets will most likely be attending to her other animals at the alternative 
accommodation, so will be unable to look after the horses at the same time.  
Miss G also says she should not be responsible  for the utility  costs on all three  houses;  the 
alternative accommodation, her main  house and the outbuilding. She says that due to the 
fact that the reinstatement works might be taking place during winter  the outbuilding and 
main house  will have  heating on all day and night  to dry out the paint/ plaster  and acclimate 
wood as well as costs  for electricity, water, internet  and satellite TV stations while  she is not 
living there. I dont think it is fair to ask NFU to pay for costs  of internet and satellite TV 
stations. These are services  Miss G should  reasonably suspend in her home and get them 
set up in her alternative  accommodations so that she doesnt incur  these expenses twice. 
It also seems  unfair to ask NFU to cover costs  of utilities for the outbuilding as the escape of 
water happened  in the main house.  Miss G would have incurred these costs whether or not 
there had been  the escape of water in the main house. If Miss G chooses to have renovation  
works carried out in the outbuilding at the same time as she has reinstatement  work done  on 
her main  home  she will need to cover  those expenses herself. But I do think  that, upon 
receipt of suitable  evidence,  it is reasonable for NFU to refund Miss G the expenses she will 
incur during  the reinstatement works for electricity, heat and water  at her main  house. 
NFU should  arrange  suitable alternative accommodation in line with the guidelines  I have set 
out above. If Miss G would rather source out her own alternative  accommodations,  then NFU 
should pay Miss G what it wouldve cost them to arrange the alternative  accommodations  in 
line with the guidelines I set out above. Miss G should indicate in her response to this 
provisional decision which option she proposes to take. 
Disturbance allowance 
NFU offered  to pay Miss G £12,500  as disturbance  allowance for being out of her home.  
Disturbance allowance is intended to compensate an insured for costs  over and above those 
they would  usually incur by staying at home rather than staying  in alternative 
accommodation or to cover expenses if the policyholder  is re-housed  somewhere that 
causes them to incur  extra  costs. An example of this might  be extra food expenses if, for 
example, the alternative accommodation has no kitchen facilities  and therefore a 
policyholder couldnt store or cook food. In these types of situations  we wouldnt expect the 
insurer to cover the entire cost of food  as the policyholder would always need to have paid 
Ref: DRN697382511for food - but we would expect the insurer to make  a reasonable contribution to recognise 
any additional costs  the policyholder has through payment of a disturbance  allowance.  
Besides the short period of time when Miss G was in a caravan, she stayed at her property 
while some of the reinstatement  works  were  taking place. She has not provided any 
evidence to show that her costs  of living exceeded  what she would have typically spent 
above the £12,500; that has already been  offered by NFU. Also Miss G hasnt incurred any 
extra travel costs as the caravan was parked on her property.  
It would seem likely that Miss Gs living costs during this time were  fairly similar to the ones 
she would  normally have  incurred, so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon  
which to ask NFU to increase its offer. And as Ive recommended that NFU should place 
Miss G in comparable alternative accommodation  to her home during the reinstatement  
works, I also dont think it would be fair to ask NFU to pay any disturbance  allowance for this 
period of time.
Christmas food
Miss G says she spent £2,000 on Christmas  food for 14 people,  as she had guests  coming 
from abroad. As the reinstatement work was not completed on the main house she had to 
cancel her guests and I understand that some of the food was spoiled.  NFU have offered 
£1,000 to settle this part of the claim,  as a gesture  of goodwill. 
The investigator thought it would be fair for NFU to pay £1,428.58 to reflect the fact that four 
out of 14 individuals still used some of the food.  NFU disagreed with this as they said they 
had never  received any evidence about this aspect of the claim despite requesting this from 
Miss G. 
I also have not seen any evidence of the value of the food Miss G is claiming  for. So overall, 
I think NFUs  offer of £1,000 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In the absence of 
any evidence of the value of the food bought and lost, I wouldnt have been likely to 
recommend that NFU should make  any payment  to Miss G for this aspect  of her claim. 
Utility costs
The investigator was of the opinion that NFU should  pay Miss G £250 for utility  costs plus 
8% simple  interest from the date the drying  contractors removed their equipment  to the date 
settlement is paid. 
NFU have accepted  this and, as both sides are in agreement, I dont think its necessary to 
make a finding on this point, but I would like to clarify that NFU should add 8% simple 
interest to this payment from the time Miss G incurred the costs from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.   
Damaged mobile phone
Miss G has claimed approximately £550  for a mobile phone replacement  for one of her 
employees. The investigator didnt think NFU should  pay for the mobile phone because it 
was damaged during clean up and wasnt part of the contents in the room when the escape 
of water occurred. 
Ref: DRN697382512I agree  with the investigator that the damage to the phone  wasnt  a direct  result of the 
escape of water, as there is no evidence  that shows that it was a part of the contents in the 
room that were damaged by the escape  of water. Therefore  I dont think  it would be fair to 
ask NFU to cover  it as part of the claim. If Miss G thinks the damaged phone might be 
covered under a different section of her insurance  policy then she should  raise a separate  
claim for this with NFU. 
Damaged bronze  tap in the cloakroom
Miss G says contractors damaged a bronze tap in her cloakroom  when they were cleaning  
their tools.   
NFU disputes this. They say the tap couldve been damaged by Miss Gs workman  or one of 
her employees and that weeks  after the contractors left, one of NFUs agents  attended  the 
site and confirmed  the tap was working  fine and still in one piece. 
Miss G says, originally she didnt know the tap was damaged  but was later told by one of her 
employees, after the contractors left, the tap handle was off. Miss Gs employee then 
screwed the tap handle back on so it was working again. But later when Miss G went to use 
the tap she says the handle irreparably broke. She also adds that the tap was corroded and 
covered in paint.  
For me to uphold this part of the complaint, I have to be satisfied on balance  that its likely  
NFUs contractors damaged the tap in the cloakroom. Ive taken into account that the tap 
was working fine for a period  of time after NFUs  contractors left, there were other individuals  
who wouldve had access to the cloakroom such as Miss Gs family and potentially her 
employees. Ive also taken into account what Miss G has said about the tap being corroded. 
Ive weighed this up against the testimony  Miss G has provided but, overall,  I dont think I 
can fairly conclude  that its most likely NFUs contractors caused the damage.  So Im not 
recommending NFU do anything about  this element of the complaint.
Broken wall lamp/toilet  seat/tights 
Miss G has also claimed for a broken wall lamp,  toilet seat and tights. 
NFU says they took lamps down and stored them in one of Miss Gs room  but they didnt fit 
the lamps back onto the wall as  there  was other touching up to do first. They says as far as 
they are concerned, right before Christmas 2017,  the wall was left without the lamps and 
later pictures show one of the lamps had been reinstalled onto the wall. So NFU says 
another person must have refitted  one of the lamps  after they left. NFU also say they arent  
responsible for any damage to the main house toilet seat and they are unsure  how this 
damage was sustained.  
Miss G says the toilet seat was new and it fell off while the works were taking place. She 
says the wall lamp was damaged but I havent  seen any other evidence on this point. 
I dont think there is enough evidence for me to fairly say its likely NFU is responsible  for the 
damage to the lamp  and the toilet seat.  Just because something  was damaged  around  the 
time the NFUs contractors were doing work  doesnt  automatically mean it is more likely than 
not that NFU caused the damage.  NFU contractors were in the house around this time but 
so were other individuals  such  as Miss G, her employees and family members.
Ref: DRN697382513I understand Miss G also had an expensive pair of tights ruined during cleaning. But I think 
this is an indirect loss which it wouldnt be fair to hold NFU responsible for considering the 
damage is not as a result of their actions or lack of. 
Service and compensation
Miss G says she experienced  many service issues when dealing with NFU,  including making 
sure the contractors errors were rectified and this also included chasing  them  on numerous 
occasions. Im also aware that at the beginning of the claim there was approximately  three  
months of delay while NFU was looking into whether  Miss G was underinsured.  
I think the whole situation caused  Miss G a substantial amount of distress and 
inconvenience which she described in correspondence to us, but which  is also evident from 
email and telephone calls she had with NFU.  
However, I can also see NFU were making what I think were genuine attempts at resolving  
issues raised by Miss G and have  paid her £1,500 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered. I realise  Miss G experienced at times unnecessary stress and 
anxiety during the claim when dealing with NFU and their agents.  But I think  £1,500  
compensation is a fair reflection of the upset that has been caused to Miss G. So whilst I 
realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss G, Im not asking NFU to 
increase their compensation award.
£2,000 payment over Easter
NFU says £2,000 was offered as disturbance allowance because Miss G was concerned 
that her children would  be home for the 2018 Easter holidays and it would be difficult  to live 
in the property due to the ongoing issues. NFU says alternative  accommodation  was 
discussed, however  Miss G didnt want this so a further disturbance allowance  payment  to 
cover the Easter  period when her children were off school  was offered and accepted. There 
was no mention of this being a goodwill gesture and it was offered as part of the disturbance  
allowance claim as it was being paid instead  of alternative accommodation. 
Miss G says she received  the £2,000 as a gesture of goodwill towards a holiday for her 
family as a set of taps NFU had installed exploded due to improper installation and knocked 
out electrics and soaked ceilings and walls. 
Even if this money was paid to Miss G as a gesture of goodwill by NFU, I would  consider  this 
to be a compensatory payment.  Therefore,  whether this forms part of the overall 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  or part of the disturbance  allowance  which  Ive 
already addressed above, I think Miss G has been fairly compensated for the impact NFUs 
errors had on her. Therefore  I wont be asking NFU to increase the amount of compensation 
they have already paid.
Cancellation of Miss Gs insurance
This is the subject of a separate complaint with our service, so I wont be addressing the 
issue in this decision. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold Miss Gs complaint in part.
Ref: DRN697382514I will require  The National Farmers  Union  Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
-pay Miss G £1,801.62 for medical  bills plus interest at 8% simple  per year from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement;
-pay Miss G £8,990.54 for clothing and rug damaged by paint in the cloakroom plus 
interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
-pay Miss G £56,136.46 for the mould/moth damaged clothing plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
-arrange suitable alternative accommodation  in line with the guidelines  I have set out 
above. If Miss G choses to source out her own alternative accommodations, then 
NFU should pay Miss G what it wouldve cost them to arrange  the alternative 
accommodations in line with the guidelines  I set out above. Miss G should indicate in 
her response to this provisional decision which option she proposes to take;
-refund  Miss G the expenses she incurs for electricity, heat and water at the main 
house during the reinstatement  works,  on the production of reasonable evidence  of 
these costs from Miss G;
-pay Miss G £250 for utility costs and add 8% simple interest to this payment from 
date of loss to the date of settlement;
 
Ive asked both parties  to provide me with any additional information they wanted me to 
consider by 14 August 2019.  Both NFU and Miss G replied agreeing with some  aspects and 
disagreeing with others, so, for ease of reference, I will address all of the points of contention 
in my findings below.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including  the additional and most 
recent comments made - to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for 
the same  reasons. 
£150,000 award  limit 
After my provisional decision,  NFU said that the £150,000 limit should  not apply to the claim 
payments agreed  with Miss G after her case was referred to our service. NFU say that 
Miss G informed  them that our service  had advised that there  needs to be continued claim 
progression to show an attempt to settle some  of the areas in dispute,  and NFU say 
otherwise they wouldnt  have  made a further  payment of £89,335 in June 2018, or 
considered a contribution to the spoiled Christmas  food at all. NFU say that instead  they 
wouldve waited for our service to issue a final outcome before making  any further payments.
NFU have also referred to discussions they had with our investigator on 9 July 2018, but 
these would not even be relevant as the payment NFU made to Miss G was before this date; 
in June 2018.
Ref: DRN697382515But as said in my provisional decision, NFU had the choice of whether or not to make  any 
offers to Miss G, and it isnt for me to consider  these. Our service cant be responsible for 
what Miss G did or didnt tell NFU.  Also, it was up to NFU to make their own decisions on 
whether to settle or not to settle with Miss G on certain aspects  of the complaint. 
8% simple  interest payment
NFU have also told us that they think applying interest up until 31 December 2018 is fair and 
reasonable and from there on NFU think that this service should contribute  towards  this 
payment. They  say they appreciate the time it takes for a case as complex as this to be 
reviewed, however, they believe that our service has caused some unnecessary delays. 
However, I think it is fair and reasonable that NFU pay the interest to take into account  that 
they shouldve  handled the matter differently when dealing with the claim. 
Medical bills
Miss G has provided another letter from her doctor,  which states that prior to 2018 her and 
her family members  visits have been sporadic at best and have increased since  then. 
Following my provisional decision, NFU agreed to pay Miss G half of the medical  bills  
coming to a total of £1,801.62. They accept that Miss G has serious allergy issues  and this 
have been made worse  by the escape  of water, and their actions when  dealing  with the 
claim. But, they have  also reviewed  the recent doctors letter  and said that they do not feel 
they needed to pay more  than half of these bills. 
NFU said they had already made  a number of large payments for the building  aspect  of 
Miss Gs claim in early 2018. And this was paid to Miss G so she could put the water  
damage and the resulting mould  problems right. So, they feels the work should have been 
finished by the end of 2018. 
They think  that further doctor referrals for Miss G and her family after this point would not 
have been needed in September or November of 2018, or linked to NFUs actions if the work  
to the property had been  completed in a timely  manner. 
In response to this point  Miss G said that the exposure to mould  spores due to NFUs 
negligence played havoc on her familys immune systems and the effects dont just 
disappear immediately. So further appointments were needed after the end of 2018  and she 
is concerned some  aspects of this condition may never fully go away now.  
I sympathise with Miss G and her family, but like I mentioned in my provisional  decision, I 
can only tell NFU to pay all the medical  expenses if I was persuaded, on balance, that all of 
the medical expenses  were likely  to have been incurred as a direct result of the way NFU 
handled her claim. I understand  that there were more visits to the doctor after the claim than 
before, but on balance,  Im not persuaded  that these were all as a direct result  of the way 
NFU handled the claim. Miss G did have a long term pre-existing medical condition and 
Miss Gs own builders, who took out the plaster in the study, did some  of the work in the 
house, which wouldve  contributed to some  of the dust exposure.  
I understand that Miss G says that her builder did take necessary precautions. She says he 
tented off the necessary areas, used plastic to cover  floors  and ceilings where needed, and  
Ref: DRN697382516used the French  doors  to the outside for removal of any materials. Miss G says that he also 
had an industrial vacuum and used it often. 
But Miss G did also say that her house is almost 200 years  old with ceilings  and walls that 
were lathe and plaster, and that this dust is extremely fine and is very hard to fully contain. 
And Im aware Miss G was having  some separate renovations works done, which were not 
part of the claim. So this would likely  have  led to some of the dust generated too, and may 
have also exacerbated the familys allergy problems.  
She says that she needed professional cleaning equipment and air purification machines to 
clear the dust and to stop it from escaping  into the house. She says that she had asked NFU 
for this on numerous occasions, but that also means  that when her builder was doing  the 
work he didnt have such equipment either.  And I agree NFU shouldve thought about this 
and they didnt. But Miss G did suffer from a long term condition,  which  did result in sporadic 
visits before  the claim. So, I do think its possible Miss G and her family would have needed  
to visit the doctor sometimes,  regardless of the claim  made. So I think  it is fair and 
reasonable that NFU only pay Miss G for half of the medical expenses to take into account 
their part in the problem. NFU should pay Miss G a total of £1,801.62 plus interest at 8% 
simple per year from the date of payment.
Clothing and rug damaged by paint in the cloakroom
Following my provisional decision, NFU said that in interest of settling matters in the most 
amicable way, they agree with the way in which I have calculated  how much  they needed to 
pay Miss G for this part of the complaint. So they deemed the £8,990.54 a reasonable 
amount to pay Miss G for the paint-damaged clothing and the rug. 
Miss G disagreed. She has provided a significant  amount of receipts for clothes she has 
already replaced  with brand new items and she feels she should be getting the full value of 
these back. She says this is because her insurance policy covers her for the full replacement  
value of all damaged items and any reduction for wear and tear does not apply in this 
instance. 
The damage caused to the clothing  and rug is due to NFUs mistakes while they were  
dealing with the escape of water claim and generally, when  we are looking at something 
NFU have done wrong, in terms of damaging items that were not part of the initial  loss, we 
look outside of the terms of the insurance policy. Were looking to ensure that the consumer 
is put back in the position  she would have been. Like Ive said in my provisional decision 
Miss G wouldve  had some use of these items prior to the loss and the pictures provided 
show items with some  signs of wear  and tear.
Miss G has also said that NFU paid out replacement cost for all other  contents.  I understand 
that, but it would  be for NFU to decide  to do that or not. I have to take the condition of the 
items into consideration; thus, in this instance,  wear  and tear is relevant. Even though NFU 
previously paid out full replacement  costs  based on new items, it doesnt mean that I can 
now ask them to do so on remaining  parts  of this claim. And it wouldnt be fair for Miss G to 
get brand  new ones,  as that wasnt what she had before based on the pictures Ive seen.
Overall taking everything into consideration my decision remains the same. NFU should  pay 
Miss G £8,990.54 for clothing  and rug damaged by paint in the cloakroom  plus interest at 8% 
simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN697382517Mould/moth damaged  clothing: 
Following my provisional decision, NFU agreed to pay Miss G £56,136.46  for the 
mould/moth damaged  clothing to try and bring the matter to a conclusion. But they wish to 
raise that they didnt  necessarily agree with the considerations that Ive made in my 
provisional decision. They said that the way I reached my decision  is not consistent  with  
how insurance law is applied. And that they should be able to apply  an exclusion on the 
policy that means mould and moth damage  isnt covered.
I explained my thoughts  on this in my provisional  decision, and these remain  the same,  for 
the same  reasons. And as NFU are willing to pay the £56,136.46 to Miss G to bring  the 
matter to a conclusion I dont need  to explore these any further.
Miss G disagreed with my findings and provided a large amount of evidence  to show  that it 
will cost her a lot more to replace the damaged clothing. She has provided receipts to show  
how much  it has already cost her to purchase  replacements of some  of the items that were 
damaged. 
The main  point she has been making is that she has a high value bespoke policy that 
provides a replacement value  and a deduction for wear and tear on contents  was not 
applicable to her policy. However,  as I mentioned above and in my provisional decision,  the 
damage that was caused is due to NFUs  mistakes while they were  dealing with the escape 
of water claim. So if NFU have done  wrong, in terms of damaging  items  that were  not part of 
the initial loss, I need  to look outside of the terms of the insurance policy.  
I have to make sure Miss G is put back in the position she wouldve been. Like Ive said in 
my provisional decision Miss G wouldve had some  use of these items and some items  from 
the pictures show signs of wear  and tear. Also in the provisional decision,  I said that in the 
absence of a more accurate means  of quantifying  the cause of the damage to each 
individual item,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for NFU to pay half of the amount 
claimed for. This wasnt just because of the wear and tear aspect. It was also due to the fact 
that Miss G shouldve acted sooner to prevent the possibility of some  of the damage getting 
worse. I know Miss G says that NFU shouldve acted sooner, and I agree with her, but she 
couldve mitigated  her losses too.
Miss G thinks that she has mitigated her losses by continually telling NFU, since  
August 2017 that she believed the dining  room  was affected by the escape of water  and that 
the items  shouldve been moved  into storage. Miss G said she didnt move the items herself 
because she says she was told by NFU just to leave the boxes as they were;  and she was 
afraid to move them so she didnt  prejudice her claim.  She also told us that she was told not 
to go into the room, as the air quality  was detrimental to health. 
But, on another occasion, I can see that she told us that one of her employees used to go 
into the room  a couple times a day to empty the water from the humidifiers. Also,  Miss G has 
told us that one of her employees did remove one bag in September 2017 which she 
determined to be undamaged clothing.  But she says that she had told the NFU adjuster that 
she had taken this step at the time. So, I think, she couldve  done  the same  with the other 
items in that room.  
Miss G also told us that her employee  did go into that room to check on the clothing/contents  
and every time after these  checks Miss G wrote to NFU and told them about the conditions 
Ref: DRN697382518of the room and that the contents were further degrading. So based on this and the above,  I 
think most likely  Miss G couldve  mitigated  her losses.
Miss G also has told us that, in all practicality,  she had nowhere to move the 
clothing/contents that had mould spores  and smelled of mildew. She says they couldnt be 
moved anywhere inside  the home  due to the mould spores and her familys allergies. She 
says that they couldnt be moved  outside  and that she couldnt afford a storage unit. But I 
think that Miss Gs couldve asked her employee  to go through the clothing and pick the 
items that were not damaged and moved those out of the room just like she did with one of 
the bags mentioned above. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration my decision  remains  the same. NFU should  pay 
Miss G £56,136.46 for the mould/moth  damaged clothing plus 8% simple  interest  from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement.
Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance 
After my provisional decision,  NFU proposed a different way to settle the alternative 
accommodation and the disturbance allowance. They made Miss G a total cash  settlement 
offer of £20,000  for the alternative accommodation  and the disturbance allowance of her 
claim. Miss G has accepted this offer, so there is nothing  for me to comment  on this part. 
In my provisional decision,  I said that upon receipt of suitable  evidence, it is reasonable for 
NFU to refund Miss G the expenses she will incur during the reinstatement  works for 
electricity, heat and water  at her main house.  NFU have agreed  to pay these  utility  bills for 
the main house  in addition to the £20,000, but said they will require Miss G to provide 
evidence of the cost incurred  throughout  the rectification for these services. But Miss G 
asked if NFU would  be willing to pay her £600 to settle this part of her claim without her 
having to provide this further evidence.  NFU have agreed to pay the £600 in addition  to the 
£20,000 as a full and final settlement so there  is nothing for me to comment  on this part.
Christmas food
After my provisional decision Miss G provided  some receipts for the food. I have shared 
these with NFU who have said that, after reviewing  the receipts and the details provided, 
they remain satisfied  that their contribution  of £1,000  is more than fair and reasonable.
NFU have said that numerous items  detailed on the receipts are not relating to food, and 
even though Miss G has not  provided close up pictures of the entire  M&S  receipt  or an 
itemised list of the  Meridian Meats  receipt, it is clear from what  is visible   at the top  and 
bottom of the M&S receipt that a lot  of these  items  would  not  be perishable.  NFU says that 
the same  goes for receipts from the butchers and fishmongers as there are several items 
regarding hardware/appliances  and items  that could be kept as they had longer life 
expectancy.
In my provisional decision,  I said that I have not seen any evidence of the value of the food 
Miss G is claiming for and that I thought that £1,000  is fair and reasonable considering there 
was absence of evidence of the value of the food bought and lost. My position has not 
changed on this because even though Miss G provided some receipts, these are 
inconclusive. 
Ref: DRN697382519I know Miss G says that the total spent was over £2,200, so she took off £200 for any items 
that were not food related,  including  carrier bags at the top of the M&S receipt and only 
claimed for £2,000. But the evidence  doesnt  clearly show all the items that were bought, 
and there  is no evidence of which items actually were lost versus  which  ones were salvaged.  
So I still think NFUs  offer of £1,000 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Total amount NFU registered  on the CUE database
Miss G has said that there may be an issue with the total amount NFU registered on the 
CUE database for her claim. If Miss G would like this issue  looked  into, she will first need  to 
raise this with NFU.  
Other
There are other points in my provisional decision that have not been  contended by either 
party so my findings on those remain the same. 
Ref: DRN697382520My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part.
The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited should:
-pay Miss G £1,801.62 for medical  bills plus interest at 8% simple  per year from the 
date of payment;
-pay Miss G £8,990.54 for clothing and rug damaged by paint in the cloakroom plus 
interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
-pay Miss G £56,136.46 for the mould/moth damaged clothing plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
-pay Miss G £20,000 for the alternative accommodation and the disturbance  
allowance;
-pay Miss G £600 to cover the expenses she will incur during the reinstatement works 
for electricity, heat and water at her main  house;
-pay Miss G £250 for utility costs and add 8% simple interest to this payment from 
date of loss to the date of settlement;
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If The National  Farmers Union  Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  deducts income tax from the interest they should  tell Miss G how 
much has been taken off. 
The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited should give Miss G a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973825