K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society mis-sold  them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs C took out joint PPI when they applied for a mortgage. The policy  
covered their monthly  mortgage  repayments  in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree. They  
mainly say that they were told they had to have PPI. They also told us that they didn't need 
PPI as Mr C had sickness and redundancy cover.  
Theyve asked for an ombudsman to review whats happened,  so this complaint comes  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
I dont know what mightve  been discussed when Mr and Mrs C applied  for their mortgage. 
But Mr and Mrs C had to say if they required PPI. They ticked  the PPI part of their mortgage 
application to say that they were interested in PPI. 
And they appear  to have wanted the cover. I say this because  Mr and Mrs C also completed 
a separate form to have PPI. They filled in their details and the amount of monthly benefit 
they required. From a range of options they chose the excess  period they wanted and the 
benefit period.  Mr and Mrs C both signed  the completed form to say they wished to have 
PPI.
Its completely understandable if Mr and Mrs C have forgotten these details from so long 
ago. But, based  on all the information  I've seen, I find on balance that Yorkshire Building 
Society made Mr and Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mr and Mrs C to have the policy.  But Yorkshire  
Building Society still had to make sure that Mr and Mrs C had enough  information  to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for them.
Cover was available for joint mortgage borrowers and, where  the policy benefits were 
shared, there was an equal 50:50 split of the benefit. 
Mr and Mrs C opted for accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They  took out this 
mortgage when  they were  both earning.  And I think its likely that theyd have found it difficult  
to keep up their mortgage monthly repayments  in the long term if either (or both) of them 
couldnt work or lost their job. 
Ref: DRN62146902The policy couldve  paid the benefit amount theyd said they wanted  for the benefit  period 
theyd chosen  - up to 9 months in the event of a successful  claim. The policy wouldve paid 
out on top of sick pay. This couldve been  a useful benefit at whats  likely to have been  a 
difficult time if Mr and Mrs C faced  extra  costs  as a result of illness or disability. 
And PPI paid out in addition to redundancy money  Mr C got when he lost his job. I've taken 
into account what hes said about  this. But I think the policy  gave Mr and Mrs C some  
additional financial security in those circumstances and provided a useful extra  benefit.  So 
I think this insurance was of value  to them when Mr C made a claim.
Repeat claims were possible giving them long term cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs C had any other reliable means of paying the mortgage monthly repayments in 
the long term if they werent working. Having  the policy in place wouldve given them peace 
of mind that their home was protected.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  I dont know how much information 
Mr and Mrs C were given about this. But, it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs C were affected by 
any of the main limitations or exclusions when they took out the policy . So I dont think  more  
information about things that didnt affect them wouldve  made any difference  to their 
decision to take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs C were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the likely PPI 
terms and conditions that applied. 
The monthly cost to have  the PPI was set out on their mortgage  offer and in a welcome  letter 
Yorkshire Building Society sent Mr and Mrs C when their mortgage and the PPI was set up  
so I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve seen this. The policy  was free for the first six months  and 
they couldve cancelled  it when they had to start paying  for the policy if they hadnt wanted to 
keep it running. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs C have said in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. But the evidence  isnt strong  enough  for me to uphold  this complaint just based 
on what they say.
Looked at overall, its possible that there mightve  been some failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But I think Mr and Mrs C still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if theyd been 
better informed as it gave  them useful protection.  I dont  think  that having better information 
about the policy wouldve put them off taking it out. 
Mrs Cs circumstances later changed,  and she was no longer working and eligible for the 
cover. So the policy  was amended to cover just Mr C  and at the same  time the benefit 
period and the excess period were  also changed. It looks like Yorkshire  Building  Society  
refunded Mr and Mrs C the overpayment they made  before  those changes  were put in place. 
Overall, this means I dont  find that Mr and Mrs C lost out as a result  of anything  that 
Yorkshire Building Society did wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN62146903my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6214690