K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs G took out (jointly  with 
her late husband) on the advice of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited in 2004.  The complaint 
is that the lifetime  mortgage was mis-sold. The complaint has been brought on Mrs Gs 
behalf by her son, Mr G.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
In 2004, Mrs G and her late husband  took out a lifetime mortgage of just under £119,000, on 
advice from Aviva. The terms of the mortgage  provide  that no monthly  repayments  are 
required. The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the property is sold voluntarily, or if the 
last surviving borrower goes into full-time  nursing care or after their death. Interest on the 
loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded. This means that if the 
loan runs for a number  of years, there  can be a significant balance to be repaid.
Mr G complained that the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
Aviva rejected the complaint,  prompting  Mr G to refer it to us. The basis  of the complaint is 
that the mortgage was unsuitable. Mr G says, in summary:
His mother isnt English, and even now has limited understanding of the language. 
Avivas advisor didnt pick this up and ensure she had access  to a translator so that she 
understood what she was agreeing  to;
The advisor, Mrs Gs late husband, and the licensed conveyancer  involved in the 
transaction were  all men, and as a result, Mrs G was discriminated against because of 
her race and gender;
Mrs G believed the advisor was independent  when in fact he was tied to Aviva:
The advisor didnt  follow  up when Mrs G reached age 60 when shed qualify for a better  
product, or recommend  waiting until then before doing anything.
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had done  anything wrong.  Mr G has asked  that the 
complaint be reviewed an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs G is a consumer, and 
so meets  the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a 
complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the 
eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr G is bringing the complaint on 
his mothers behalf.
Ref: DRN66777482But I must explain that, although  Mr G is representing his mother, it is Mrs G who is Avivas 
customer. Mr Gs role is to bring Mrs Gs complaint on her behalf,  in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant  to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mr G to air his own grievances about Aviva, because he is not its customer; 
his role is limited to putting  forward Mrs Gs complaint.
Mr G says that between them, Avivas advisor,  the licensed  conveyancer and Mrs Gs late 
husband collectively  discriminated against her on grounds of gender  and race.  Ive no power 
to consider the alleged actions of the licensed conveyancer or Mrs Gs late husband,  only 
how Avivas advisor conducted  the sale of the mortgage.
In this decision I have  looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what  was regarded  as 
good industry practice at the time) and considered  generally whether Aviva did anything  
wrong when the mortgage was taken out. Ive considered all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. If the 
available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach  our findings on what  we 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats  broadly the 
same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2004.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; But its typically more reliable than peoples individual  
recollections (or, as here, the recollections  of others) at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes  be inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a 
compelling reason  to believe  the information is inaccurate, well generally  attach  some  
weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise had identified specific financial objectives, including (but 
not limited to) repaying an existing mortgage and other debts, various  improvements to the 
home, future  holidays and possible additions to pension  provisions. The fact-find also 
recorded that Mrs G and her late husband had around £2,000 in savings and a monthly 
income to expenditure shortfall of about  £250.  That suggests to me that Mrs G and her late 
husband were  in need of some form of borrowing that was more affordable that what they 
already had.
So Ive next considered whether something  other  than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better  option. Mrs G and her husband were both recorded as retired and were  on a level of 
retirement income that was substantially less than their regular  outgoings. It shouldnt  be 
assumed that they would have been  accepted for another traditional mortgage to consolidate 
their existing indebtedness, given  their age. This, combined with my earlier finding that some 
borrowing was necessary, meant that equity release (which required no monthly repayment 
so would immediately  improve  income  to expemnditure) was probably the only viable option 
for Mrs G and her late husband,  given  the circumstances recorded at the time.
Mr G challenges why Avivas advisor didnt  recommend they wait until Mrs G had reached 
age 60 where shed qualify for a better product. The difficult there was their spending  each 
month exceeded what they had coming  in, and at a rate that would have exhausted all of 
their savings in less than eight  months.  Put simply, on the available information, Mrs G and 
her late husband  didnt have much  time;  they needed a solution pretty much there and 
then. 
Ref: DRN66777483As for following up after Mrs G reached  60 years  old to see if they could get a better product, 
thats not something Aviva was obliged to do. The whole point of an equity mortgage is that 
its intended as lifetime solution. But even  if it was, Im not sure a change of product would 
have been possible, never mind viable. 
I say that because Avivas  records show that in 2007, when Mrs G reached age 60, it 
received a call asking about more  borrowing. Aviva was unable to consider any further 
lending because by then, there  was a charging order on the property  in respect  of a debt to a 
third party and Mrs Gs late husband  had apparently been declared  bankrupt.
As far as the lifetime  mortgage itself is concerned, its normal for interest  to roll up, and then 
to attract  further  interest  on a compounding  basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in 
monetary terms in the point-of-sale material.
I cant know how much of the information Mrs G was able to assimilate. Given  that English  
isnt her first language,  Im inclined to take Mr G on face value when he says she understood 
relatively little of what was going  on. That does of course beg the question  of how Mrs G 
might have understood the distinction between a tied agent  and an independent advisor and 
formed the mistaken impression that her advisor  was the latter.
But that point  aside, it still doesnt  then follow that I must find the mortgage to have been  
mis-sold. For that to be case, Id need to be persuaded any lack of understanding on Mrs Gs 
part is the sole reason the mortgage went ahead. Ive identified  already that Mrs G and her 
late husband had a need for new borrowing of some sort, that realistically the equity release 
was their only option, and the need  to arrange it was pressing bordering  on urgent. So even 
if Mrs G had fully understood everything, it seems  to me more  likely than not that the equity 
release mortgage  would still have  gone  ahead in the form it did, and when it did.
Theres more. Before  the mortgage could  proceed, Mrs G and her late husband were  
required to have independent legal advice from a solicitor or licensed conveyancer  and not 
Avivas. Here, the licensed conveyancer  from a firm based  near to their home - confirmed  
to Aviva (in a document known then as a SHIP  certificate) that hed explained the terms of 
the mortgage to them  both. I think that if the licensed conveyancer  had had any concerns 
that Mrs G didnt understand the nature and effect  of what she was signing (or indeed  lacked 
the capacity to transact), he wouldnt  have  allowed her to proceed with it.
Mr G has said that the licensed conveyancer  didnt  speak  to Mrs G, only to her late husband, 
thus enforcing the view that she was subject to undue influence.  I dont  know  if thats true or 
not, but again, if I take what Mr G says on face value, it doesnt mean Aviva did something 
wrong. The key point about the legal advice is that it took place independently  from Avivas  
involvement in the transaction. 
If Mr G believes  the licensed  conveyancer acted wrongly, thats  something  to take up with 
the licensed conveyancer,  and with the Legal  Ombudsman if need be. The underlying point 
here is that Aviva could  reasonably rely on the SHIP certificate as evidence  that both parties 
knew and understood what they were agreeing to.
Ref: DRN66777484my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G (or Mr G on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6677748