K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor  insurance 
policy from the start (voided it) and declined her claim. She wants it to reinstate the policy, 
pay the claim and remove  records of the voidance from databases.  Mrs M is represented in 
this matter by her friend, Mr J.
background
When Mrs M made a claim on her policy, it came  to light that she hadnt told Admiral about 
motoring offences  and points added to her driving  licence  in the previous year.  So Admiral 
voided her policy,  retained  the premiums and declined her claim. But Mrs M said this was an 
innocent mistake.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Admiral 
had asked a clear question about motoring offences  and Mrs M had answered  this 
incorrectly. He thought it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known of this. And he thought  
the misrepresentation had been reckless.  So he thought Admiral was entitled to void the 
policy, retain the premiums and decline the claim.
Mrs M asked  for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come  to me for a 
final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Admirals decision has had a financial and personal impact on Mrs M. I 
can understand that she would be frustrated by it. 
Like the investigator, Ive considered the relevant law when reviewing  Mrs Ms complaint. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the non-disclosure.  
Mr J said Admiral hadnt asked a clear question about motoring offences. He didnt  think  it 
had brought the importance  of this to Mrs Ms attention.  But I disagree and Ill now explain 
why I think this.
Mrs Ms policy booklet contains a section on keeping the policy up to date. It asks that at 
renewal Mrs M should tell Admiral about  any motoring offences within the last year.  The 
section also says that providing incorrect  information  could  lead to a claim being declined  
and a policy cancelled  or made void. So I think Admiral made it reasonably  clear  that this 
information about motoring offences  was important to it. 
I can see that when  Mrs M renewed  her policy, she was asked in the renewal notice if there  
were any motoring offences for herself or the named driver within the past five years. On the 
renewal document,  one offence had been  previously declared  for the named driver on the 
policy, but none were  recorded for Mrs M. 
Ref: DRN66425432The notice asked  her to check that all the information was correct. It warned of cancellation  
or voidance  if incorrect information  was provided. So I think  Admiral asked a reasonably  
clear question about previous motoring offences and reasonably brought  the importance of 
an accurate answer  to Mrs Ms attention. 
Admiral said it wouldnt  have offered cover  if it had known about one of the motoring 
offences. And its provided us with evidence from its underwriters to show this. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for Admiral to rely on this to void the policy.  
Mrs M said she made an innocent mistake by not declaring her motoring offences. She said 
she didnt know shed  received one of them when she renewed her policy. But Mrs M had 
previously declared her husbands motoring offence.  So I think  she was reasonably aware of 
the importance of reporting these. And she said she received notification about  the latest 
offence just before her policy renewed. This included notification  of the offence and the 
penalty points.  I think Mrs M would have known that this was pending. So I think  Mrs M 
should have reasonably told Admiral  about this.  
So, in summary,  I think Admiral asked Mrs M clear  questions about motoring offences and 
penalty points  which she answered incorrectly. Admiral has shown us that if Mrs M had 
provided accurate  information it wouldnt have offered cover.  And I think Admiral  has shown 
that Mrs M acted recklessly in not providing  the correct information. So I think Admiral  was 
entitled, under the relevant legislation, to void the policy,  retain  the premiums  and decline the 
claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6642543