K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo  Finance) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr C entered into a HPA with MotoNovo  Finance in February 2018. He says that within  a 
month of acquiring the car he noticed a noise. He took the car back  to the dealer but after 
collecting the car the noise remained. He says he was told to take the car to another  garage 
which he did and it said it couldnt do anything.  He then took the car to a local garage which  
said the issue was with the timing  chain. He says he was told the repair would cost around 
£1,000. 
Since raising  his complaint, Mr C says he has experienced further issues with the car and 
wants to reject it.
MotoNovo Finance says that Mr C contacted it to explain that there  was an issue with the 
cars timing chain, air conditioning and tyres. It says it spoke to the dealer which confirmed  
that it had looked at the car but been unable to identify any faults and so no repairs  were  
carried out. 
After receiving a diagnostics report form Mr C with the faults identified, MotoNovo Finance  
arranged for an independent inspection  to take place. This happened  in June 2018. Faults 
were identified in this inspection but the inspector didnt think  the faults  were  present or 
developing at the point of supply and so MotoNovo Finance didnt uphold  this complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He thought that the timing chain wasnt sufficiently 
durable meaning the car wasn't of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He said that 
Motonovo Finance had the opportunity  to repair when  the issue was first raised by Mr C. 
Because of this he thought it reasonable that Mr C was allowed to reject  the car, have his 
HPA cancelled with nothing further  owing  and have his deposit  refunded  plus 8% simple 
interest. He also thought  that Mr C should be paid £100  compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
MotoNovo Finance didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that the independent 
inspection hadnt  found that there  were  issues present from the point of supply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C acquired  a used car through a HPA with MotoNovo Finance. Under the regulations 
MotoNovo Finance can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car. At the point of acquisition  Mr Cs car was around four years old and had been  driven  
around 33,000  miles.
Mr C says that he noticed a rattling  noise coming from the engine in the first month and he 
returned the car to the dealer. He was provided  with alternative transport at this time. The 
dealer wasnt able to find a fault and said Mr C could get a second opinion from another 
Ref: DRN68770332garage. He did this but again  no fault was found.  The cost of this assessment was paid for 
by the dealer.
Mr C wasnt happy with the outcomes of the assessment and took the car to another  garage 
and was told there was an issue with the timing chain. Further inspections have confirmed 
the noise from the car and that the issue is most likely due to the timing chain.
Given the outcome  of the inspections that have taken place I accept that there is a fault with 
the cars  timing chain.
As well as the issue with the timing chain, Mr C raised concerns about the air conditioning 
and the tyres. A leak with the condenser was identified in the health check carried out in 
April 2018. Given the time of year I accept that Mr C may not have tried to use the air 
conditioning when  he first got the car and so he wouldnt have been aware  of any issues 
immediately even if they were present at this time.  
In regard to the tyres, I do not find I can say this was an issue  that was present at the point 
of supply. The car passed an MOT at end January 2018 and the tyres would have been 
checked as part of that. Therefore they would have been legal at the point of supply.
The main  issue relates  to the timing chain and whether  the issue  with this was due to a fault 
that was present or developing  at the point of supply.
The diagnostics report Mr C provided  to MotoNovo  was dated 6 June 2018 and recorded the 
mileage of the car at around  38,000.  This report stated a new timing belt was required. While 
Mr C had been able to drive around  5,000 miles by this time, he had only had the car around  
four months and so I accept it was reasonable that further assessment was carried  out to 
understand whether the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
The independent inspection report also took place in June 2018. It noted the rattling noise  
and said this was consistent with timing  chain issue. It said that the vehicle should  not be 
used given the issues. The report then said that taking into consideration the considerable 
time and mileage that had elapsed since the point of initial finance inception,  on the balance 
of probability, the conditions  would not have been  developing  at the point  of supply and had 
progressed and developed thereafter.
While I note the comments  in the independent inspection report  I have also considered that 
Mr C raised the issue of the noise coming  from the engine a month after acquisition. At this 
time he says he had only driven  1,000 miles. The dealer has confirmed that it looked at the 
car but no fault could be found. The second  assessment was carried  out in April 2018 when 
the car had been driven around 36.000 miles (around 3,000 by Mr C). This also didnt find a 
fault. While  the inspections didnt find faults, I accept that they were  carried out because  of 
the noise Mr C had reported. This noise was later identified  as an issue  with the timing 
chain.
Given when the issue was first noted I find it reasonable  to accept that the issue  was more  
likely than not developing at the point  of supply and then only able to be correctly identified  a 
few months after acquisition. 
The fault with the timing  chain is significant and I think  it is fair to say that because of this 
fault and when it arose the car wasnt sufficiently durable and so not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Ref: DRN68770333This complaint has been ongoing and opportunities have  been provide for repairs  to take 
place. Therefore I find the fairest  resolution at this time is for Mr C to be allowed to reject the 
car and have his HPA cancelled with nothing further  owing.  The deposit he paid should be 
refunded. The deposit is recorded  as £1,000 in the HPA. I havent seen a copy  of the sales  
invoice but it is fair that the amount Mr C paid for the deposit is refunded along with interest. 
Mr C should also be refunded any payments he has made since  June 2018  when  the car 
was said to be no longer be fit to drive. 
Mr C should also be refunded any costs of insurance and road tax that he had paid from this 
date (subject to invoices  being provided).
Mr C has been caused inconvenience by the issues he experienced shortly after acquiring 
the car. He has had to take the car for a number of assessments.  Given  this I agree  with our 
adjudicator that he should  be paid £100 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance) should:
1.collect the car at no cost to Mr C 
2.cancel Mr Cs HPA with no further  liability and ensure any adverse information 
regarding this agreement is removed from his credit file;
3.refund  Mr C the deposit  he paid;
4.waive and charges incurred since June 2018 and refund Mr C any payments he has 
made since June 2018;
5.refund  Mr C his insurance  and road tax costs  since June 2018 (subject to invoices 
being provided)
6.pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has been 
caused.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6877033