K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains, on behalf  of her late mother Mrs B, about how Ageas Insurance  Limited 
handled a claim  following  subsidence at Mrs Bs property.
background
Mrs B had a home insurance policy for her property. In 2014  she made a claim for 
subsidence after finding cracks  in the kitchen. Ageas accepted  the claim and work to fix the 
problem was completed by December 2014.
In June 2015 Mrs B sadly passed away. Her daughter,  Mrs M, inherited the property. In 
March 2016 Mrs M was preparing the house to put on the rental market. She noticed a large  
crack in a wall in the garage.  She contacted Ageas who attended  the property to inspect the 
crack.
Ageas concluded  that the crack had been  linked to the previous subsidence problem  
addressed in the original claim made  by Mrs B. It said the crack must have been missed  by 
the loss adjuster at the time. Ageas agreed to deal with the issue  as part of the previous 
claim.
During the repairs other issues with the property  came  to light.  This included a damp 
problem in the bedroom, water ingress  from the roof and a faulty drain  under the drive. 
Ageas inspected the issues.  It fixed the drain  and re-tarmacked  the drive  as part of the 
claim. However it said the damp  and the roof were unrelated to the subsidence claim. It said 
problems with the roof were due to wear and tear and the damp  was caused by insufficient  
ventilation. It said the policy  wouldnt provide  cover  for these issues.
The repairs  to the cracks  and drain were completed  in August 2017 and a certificate of 
structural adequacy issued in October  that year.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this. She said the delay in Ageas dealing  with the claim had meant  
she couldnt rent the property so felt she was owed loss of rent for that time. Further she said 
the cracks  should  have been  identified at the time of the original claim. She also said the 
damp in the bedroom was caused  by the fact the internal vent was removed when the 
subsidence was repaired originally. And she said the damage to the roof was in the same 
area as the subsidence so thought they were  linked, she made a complaint to Ageas.
Ageas didnt accept  that the damp and water  ingress were linked to the subsidence. It also 
said that loss of rent wouldnt be provided  under the policy as Mrs M hadnt  provided proof 
that she had tried to rent it out. It also said that as the crack was in the garage, it was 
reasonable that the loss adjuster didnt identify  it previously. However  it recognised it had 
caused Mrs M some distress and inconvenience  and offered  £1,000  compensation to make  
up for this.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said she had been  unable  to rent the property for around  18 months 
due to delays  caused by Ageas, so thought  it should pay rent for those months. She also 
thought it wasnt  fair that the other issues werent  covered and the compensation wasnt 
enough to make up for the distress  and inconvenience. She brought  the complaint to this 
service.
Ref: DRN60137292Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint was partially 
upheld. She agreed  that the loss of rent wouldnt be covered under the policy. And she said 
Ageas offer of £1,000 compensation was fair. However she said there hadnt been anything  
conclusive to say the other issues werent  related to the subsidence  so thought  an 
independent report  should be put together and paid for by Ageas.
Mrs M didnt  agree with this opinion as she thought Ageas should pay for the rent she had 
missed out on.
Ageas didnt agree either as it said Mrs M had agreed to the vent being removed in the 
bedroom, when  helping Mrs B with the original claim, and this had caused the damp.  It also 
said there was no evidence to link the problem  with the roof to the subsidence, so would  only 
pay for an expert report if it overturned its decision.
Because of this, the complaint has been referred  to me for a decision.
On reviewing the case I have come  to a slightly different outcome to our investigator.  I 
provided my findings to Ageas and Mrs M. Mrs M didnt respond  with further comments.  
Ageas didnt agree with my decision  and I have included its comments  in my considerations 
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M, on behalf  of the estate of Mrs B, has raised  a number of complaint points which I will 
address in turn. 
Loss of rent
Mrs M says that as Ageas took so long dealing with the claim  that she was unable  to rent out 
the property as intended, so this meant she lost out on rent she would have received 
otherwise. 
The policy does provide cover for loss of rent. It describes the cover as follows:
Rent you would have  received or are responsible for paying while the buildings  cannot be 
lived in because of damage insured by this section
So in order for this cover to be provided  Mrs M would need to show  that she would have 
received rent if it hadnt  been for the insured incidents. 
Mrs M has said she returned to the property  in order to prepare  it to rent. This means at this 
stage, she hadnt  put it on the rental  market  nor did she have potential tenants  lined up. Due 
to this, I cant say that she would  have received rent payments  each month. As it may have 
taken some time to get the house  ready, market it and get tenants in. If she had had tenants 
who were waiting to move  in at an agreed rent, then I would agree the cover would apply. As 
Mrs M would  have  received rent if it hadnt been  for the insured perils.  However  in this case, 
there isnt a guarantee she would have  received  rent. Therefore I agree that the policy  
wouldnt provide  cover. I therefore think Ageas has treated Mrs M fairly by not covering the 
loss of rent payments  and wont  ask it to do anything further in this regard.
Ref: DRN60137293Damp in the bedroom
Ageas has said the damp problem in the bedroom has been  caused by poor ventilation. It 
says this is due to the internal vent being removed  while the property was repaired during 
the original claim. Ageas  has provided  evidence that its contractors gave Mrs M the option to 
have the vent removed  or to keep  it. And she chose for it to be removed. It says as it was 
her choice, the damp wouldnt  be covered  by the policy.
I have considered this and I dont think this is fair. As the contractors  who offered the options 
were experts in construction, I think it would  be for them  to explain any problems that may 
arise if the vent is removed. From what Ive seen, when the options were given to Mrs M an 
explanation of their possible consequences wasnt provided. I dont think  it was fair to expect 
Mrs M to have  known this without further  information. Particularly as she was choosing from 
options provided by experts. She may have reasonably assumed that either  would be of little 
consequence if this wasnt explained. 
I put this to Ageas and it said that the contractors confirmed that Mrs M said she wanted  the 
vent removed  because it was causing  a draft. It said because of this, it was clear that she 
was aware the vent was needed  for ventilation, so the contractors assumed she would find 
alternative ways of ventilating the room. So it didnt think  it required further explanation.
I have considered this and I dont think it is reasonable to assume that understanding  a vent 
is causing a draft would  mean  Mrs M would know that removing it may cause problems with 
damp in the future. I still think this would be the contractors responsibility to explain 
explicitly. As this didnt happen, and the damp problems have been caused by the poor 
ventilation in the bedroom, I dont  think its fair for Ageas to say the problem isnt covered. I 
will therefore require Ageas to provide cover for the damp problems in the bedroom.
Roof
Ageas loss adjuster has provided  comment on the water ingress from the roof.  He 
suggested that the problem may be caused in part by poor drainage and wear and tear. So 
Ageas has said this wouldnt be covered under the policy,  as it isnt related to the insured 
peril  the subsidence. 
Due to the fact there has been no conclusive expert opinion on the cause of the damage  to 
the roof, our investigator  recommended  that an independent report  is commissioned and 
paid for by Ageas in order to get a more definitive  answer. I have considered this, and I 
understand the position. However  given the current circumstances regarding the UK 
lockdown, I dont  think this will resolve  the matter  for Mrs M in a reasonable time frame.  
Having looked  at the photos, expert reports and explanations from both sides, it think its 
likely that the roof has been impacted by the poor drainage,  wear  and tear and made worse 
by the subsidence. The damage  is in one area of the roof, which is where the subsidence 
has occurred. So it seems  probable that this has had some  impact.  For this reason I think  a 
fair resolution in the circumstances is for Ageas to provide cover for half of the repairs. 
I have put this to Ageas  and it doesnt  agree this is fair. It says it is more likely the problems 
with the roof are caused by poor drainage. However  it hasnt provided any new evidence. I 
am therefore not persuaded that the drainage is the sole cause of the problems with the roof. 
Ref: DRN60137294So I will require Ageas to pay 50% of the cost of the repairs to the roof on receiving a quote  
from Mrs M for the corrective work.
Crack in the garage and other repairs 
Mrs M says that Ageas should have identified  the crack in the garage when it originally 
repaired the subsidence damage. Ageas has said that its contractors didnt have a need to 
go in the garage  which  is why it wasnt  noticed.
Having considered the layout of the house,  the crack in the garage is in close proximity to 
the kitchen, which was repaired as part of the original claim.  As subsidence will often affect 
more than one area of a property, I think it would have been reasonable to expect Ageas 
contractors to check the garage  for further  cracks.  So I agree that it has caused 
inconvenience by not doing  so at the time.  
Further there was also an issue with drainage under the driveway identified. This took a 
while to investigate, repair and re-tarmac the drive sufficiently. Ageas loss adjuster said that 
this damage hadnt  been  identified at the time of the original claim. So I think its likely this 
was also missed and should  have been  resolved at the time. This caused further delays and 
inconvenience for Mrs M.
In all, it took Ageas around 18 months to fix the problems raised by Mrs M in 2016 in order to 
declare the property structurally adequate.  And, as addressed here, there  are still some 
outstanding issues.  Ageas  has offered  Mrs M £1,000 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused in relation to the claim.  I think this is fair in the circumstances, so I 
wont interfere in its decision to offer this but wont ask it to pay anything further in 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
 Provide cover under the policy for fixing  the problems with damp in the bedroom.
 Pay 50% of the cost of repairs to the roof on receipt  of a quote from Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of the estate of Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision  before 12 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013729