K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund him for almost £1,500 worth of disputed 
transactions which he doesnt believe he made.
background
In May 2018  TSB refunded Mr H £70 after he disputed  hed got all the money hed 
withdrawn from a cash machine. He then went on to believe  hed got less money  from two 
further cash machine  withdrawals.
This coincided with TSBs well-known IT problems.  Mr H believed  his email  and online 
banking details had been compromised  due to this issue. He disputed a range of 
transactions on his account to gambling companies.  TSB didnt  refund  him or properly 
investigate what may have happened.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. After  some delay our investigator  
was able to review the limited evidence on this complaint.  She was able to see Mr H had 
only made one cash  machine withdrawal in the period he thought hed lost money. Mr H 
accepted there was nothing further to do on this aspect.  
After further evidence (from TSB) from one of the gambling companies involved, she noted 
Mr H had had an account with this company and she thought it was more  than likely his 
details hadnt  been compromised. There was no evidence someone  else had been able to 
access his account  and use his debit card. However she did believe TSB should  pay £450 in 
compensation for the experience hed had with them. She didnt think  theyd properly 
investigated his complaints.
After some consideration,  TSB agreed to pay that amount and Mr H accepted that offer.  On 
23 October TSB paid this money into Mr Hs account with another bank.  It then became 
clear Mr H still expected to have money  refunded for his disputed transactions. His complaint 
has been referred to an ombudsman  for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion  to our investigator.  Ill explain why.
Firstly I appreciate TSB believes Mr H accepted the outcome  of his complaint in full and final 
settlement and therefore shouldnt get a second bite of the cherry. I have considered  this. 
But overall  taking into account  Mr Hs insistence that he wouldnt have accepted the £450 
if hed known he wasnt having his disputed transactions  refunded  I believe its fair and 
reasonable that Mr H gets an opportunity to have his complaint decided by a final decision. 
This will bring his complaint to an end.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Ref: DRN66675132When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.  
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr H have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events and each partys testimony were covered in our 
investigators views of 23 July and 7 October  2020. Ive also seen Mr Hs detailed  responses 
about his complaints and what he considers happened. Hes also talked about the emotional 
and financial  toll this has taken on him. I dont  intend to repeat everything  that was said 
there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects  which  form the basis of my decision.
What Mr H has never provided, however, is any confirmation of the specific  transactions  he 
disputes. Mr H has also been given plenty of opportunity to share his mobile phone bill. Hes 
told us hes had to pay a considerable amount on all the calls hes had to make to TSB but 
hes not been able to verify what this has cost him.
cash machine withdrawals
After the withdrawal of £250 on 10 May 2018  £70 of which  was refunded  to him on 15 May 
 there  are a further five cash  machine withdrawals on his account over the week  at the 
same cash  machine. But only one of these is for £70 and that took place  on 12 May.  Mr H 
originally felt there were  two of these withdrawals when he thought hed received £50 rather 
than £70 but this isnt the case.
Our investigator didnt  think TSB should  have suggested it was Mr Hs responsibility to use 
another cash machine. I agree that this alone  shouldnt have stopped  them from 
investigating what was going on. But I do believe  that its most unlikely a cash machine  over 
a period longer than 24 hours would be dispensing lower amounts than customers  would 
expect to receive.
Ive noted Mr H accepts  he wasnt debited what he thought for the two cash machine 
transactions he disputed. Having reviewed what happened,  I dont believe theres enough 
evidence to show Mr H didnt get the money he intended when withdrawing cash from cash  
machine.
disputed transactions
Mr H originally believed there was nearly  £1,500  worth of disputed transactions  made using  
his debit card on gambling  websites.  Hed not consented to these transactions and he noted  
this coincided with problems TSB had with its IT system.
Ref: DRN66675133Mr H has never given  us clear information  about the transactions he disputes. His complaint 
was raised in mid-2018. But I can see from his statements that there were gambling  
transactions from February 2018  to October  2018  at least.  
Ive considered the evidence TSB was able to obtain from one of the gambling companies  
involved. This shows Mr H had opened  an account with them in 2010  with personal details I 
recognise. The account usage  didnt  resemble fraudulent activity. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr Hs card and online  banking  details were compromised. 
In fact on 24 May 2018 Mr H received a substantial  credit of £3,281.93  from a gambling 
company. If someone had been  able to compromise  his banking details, Id have expected 
them to take steps to use this amount. From Mr Hs statements, I only see him making use 
of his own funds  and account.
I know Mr H will disagree but theres  isnt enough evidence to say he was a victim of fraud. 
And taking  into account his history with gambling  companies I think  he made these 
transactions himself.
customer service
Mr H had only recently opened this account with TSB and I can see there  were  a number of 
disputes raised with them.  This coincided with an extremely busy period  for the bank and 
they struggled to respond effectively to him. Im sure this slow resolution of his complaint 
didnt help him in his fixation that hed been  badly treated  and TSB had failed to meet  their 
guarantee  in his eyes  that all fraud would be refunded.
I note our investigator felt TSB should pay Mr H £450 in compensation. Theyd already paid 
£300 compensation to Mr H during  the lifetime of his account (which  was closed in March  
2019). I may not have  asked  TSB to pay as much compensation  but I can see TSB accepted 
this outcome (and of course, have already paid this to Mr H). So I think it would be unfair  of 
me to change this.
This brings  Mr Hs prolonged complaint to a conclusion and marks the end of our 
consideration of his issues.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  TSB Bank  plc to pay Mr H £450 for 
the trouble caused.
(TSB paid this money in October 2020)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667513