K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Advantage Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a car he had bought 
with a hire purchase  agreement.
background
In July 2017 Mr G bought  a second hand automatic car from a garage I will call A. It was 
some seven years old and had done around  63,000 miles. After  a few weeks  he noticed  
juddering and spoke to a friend  with knowledge of cars. He suggested Mr G to check if the 
transmission fluid had been changed  at 40,000  miles. Mr G discovered it hadnt  and had the 
fluid changed by another garage. Three weeks later an engine  warning light came  on and he 
took it to the garage which had changed  the fluid. It said that the gearbox  was damaged and 
needed to be replaced.
He took the car back to A and he says it agreed to repair it at no cost. He says he also spoke 
to Advantage  which agreed to sort out the problem. However, he was subsequently told that 
the fault was due to wear and tear and he would  have to bear the cost. Advantage then 
commissioned an engineer to inspect the car and he concluded that the fault was due to 
wear and tear. The report said:
The vehicles [stet] overall general  reasonable for its age and reported  mileage and give no 
immediate cause for concern, however we can confirm that one of the transmission clutch  
drums has fractured adjacent to the reaction shaft, this is a well-documented problem and is 
the direct  result of the strong constantly  clamping and unclamping which  results  in fatigue 
fracture.
Fatigue occurs when  a material is subjected to repeated loading and unloading. If the loads 
are above  a certain threshold, microscopic cracks  will begin to form at the surface. 
Eventually a crack will reach  a critical size, and the structure will suddenly  fracture  as has 
happened in this case."
The report  goes on to say:
As stated previously this is a well-documented problem  which  we have come  across 
numerous times in the past,  the manufacturer from our understanding has now modified the 
reaction shaft  clutch pac/clutch drum to improve the life expectancy of the components.
This would be classed as an age-related general  in-service wear and tear issue and not a 
sudden material failure, taking into account  the vehicles overall general condition and the 
fact that the vehicle has covered some  10,000  miles  the date of purchase would lead us to 
conclusion that the vehicle was fit for purpose  and of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale,  
basically the vehicle could not have driven 10,000 miles  with a fracture to the reaction shaft 
being present  at the point  of sale.
In conclusion as stated previously fatigue occurs over a period of time and as a result  of 
general wear and tear rather than a material failure, taking these comments into account and 
the fact that the vehicle passed  an MOT  shortly  before purchase with similar mileage as at 
the date of purchase this in conjunction  with overall general condition of the vehicle  would 
lead us to conclusion that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality for its age and reported 
mileage and road legal  at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN68585602Mr G brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He considered Mr Gs claim of 
misrepresentation in that the car didnt have full service  history as the cars transmission fluid 
hadnt been changed at the 40,000 mile service.
He was unable  to agree that there had been a misrepresentation. He noted the cars 
documentation showed it had been regularly  serviced and Mr G had confirmed he had been 
given the service book  at point of sale. This seemed to suggest that the vehicle had a 
service history and that Mr G had reasonably been  aware of that service  history.  He didnt 
consider A was required to check every service  was carried out in accordance with Audis 
guidelines.
He then considered  the claim that the car had an inherent fault which  was present  at the 
point of sale. He referred  to the engineers report which noted the car had travelled around
10,000 miles since  Mr G acquired it. The gearbox  had already been removed from the 
vehicle so the inspector was able to look at this. He said the report stated the clutch  reaction 
shaft/clutch drum was fractured and this was what was causing  the issues  with the clutch 
slipping. The engineer  suggested the transmission fluid put in by the garage  to which  Mr G 
had taken the car wasnt of the correct  type,  but he didnt  believe this would have caused the 
fault. Taking into account the age of the car, the mileage and the engineers report  the 
investigator didnt  believe  he could accept the fault had been present at the point of sale.
Mr G didnt agree and said the onus was on A to carry out due diligence  into the cars  
service history. He also said the fault first came to light three  weeks  after purchase. He 
added that he had been told the gearbox  should  have lasted at least  120,000 miles. He also 
explained that the correct  oil had been used; the only difference  was it came from an 
alternative supplier.
He also obtained  a note from the garage he had originally taken the car to and this stated:
We carried  out the initial diagnosis  on the car and we found  the gearbox  to be slipping and 
suspected an internal  clutch issue.  As we have  experienced  this problem before one of the 
first things we check is to see if Audi had released  a technical bulletin on this fault (fault  code 
P1743 Clutch slip monitoring signal too high).
The technical bulletin  we found related directly to the fault code stored  within the gearbox 
ECU as well as the symptoms Mr G was experiencing. The technical bulletin number is 
2023840/2. In this bulletin from the manufacture it states that the "incorrect  gearbox  
components are fitted" which in my opinion means that the components  fitted during 
production were not up to standard. The fix for this fault is to replace the gearbox with a 
modified part.
Due to the technical bulletin issued by Audi it is my opinion that the gearbox was always 
going to fail due to manufacturing defects which Audi themselves admit  to within  their 
bulletin. The fact that the failure occurred so soon after Mr G purchased  the vehicle can be 
nothing more than coincidence as there is nothing a driver  can do prevent  a fault that is 
caused by a manufacturing defect.
Mr G said he had spoken to an Audi master  technician who had told him that the gearbox 
should last for around 200,000 miles if serviced  properly and his gearbox wouldnt suffer
damage unless  there had been a defective  part.
Ref: DRN68585603I issued provisional  decision as follows:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed  to have regard  to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Advantage is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr G asked that he be allowed to submit his own expert report,  but as the car had been  
repaired by A and it seemed he didnt have access to it so the expert simply  commented  on 
the other two reports. I also asked him for a copy of the technical  note from Audi and he 
supplied a screen-print of the report from the garage  he first took the car to when the 
juddering occurred.
The key facts were that after some  three  weeks of buying the car Mr G experienced 
juddering and he had the transmission fluid changed. It seemed to me that this hadnt been 
done before  despite the servicing manual requiring it be done at the 40,000 mile service. 
The car was then inspected by the servicing garage  and the diagnostics showed  a fault  
P1743 - Clutch slip monitoring signal too high. This recommended the gearbox should  be 
replaced instead of just the hydraulic control  unit.
The car was collected by A and it concluded  the fault was due to the wrong transmission 
fluid being used,  but no evidence has been supplied to support this conclusion.  Advantage 
commissioned an independent  report  which said the fault was due to wear and tear. By the 
time this report was undertaken the car had done  10,000 miles since  it was bought. I 
understood A had repaired the car and still had it in its possession.
The various technical reports arrived at conflicting conclusions.  That commissioned by 
Advantage accepted that the fracture of the clutch drum is a well documented problem and 
is the direct  result of the strong constantly  clamping and unclamping which  results  in fatigue 
fracture. This suggested there is an inherent problem with the clutch drum. However, the 
expert concludes that the failure  was due to wear and tear. Also,  in his view the new 
transmission oil had no bearing  on the failure.  He went on to say that the car had done  
10,000 miles since  purchase  and this suggested  it was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale.
Ref: DRN68585604The garage used  by Mr G reached a different  conclusion, but it seems  there  is some  overlap 
in that it too believed there was a well documented problem with the clutch  drum.  It referred  
to the manufacturers  technical bulletin which indicated  that the gearbox was always going 
to fail due to manufacturing defects  which Audi themselves admit to within  their bulletin.  
Having looked  at the bulletin  I didnt  think it was as clear cut as the garage suggested, but I 
believed there  has been an issue with the clutch on this model and this was reinforced by 
the report commissioned by Advantage.
The third report was of reduced value as it was merely an analysis of the two preceding 
reports. But it did point  out the inherent  contradiction in there being an accepted  inherent  
fault and the conclusion that the cause was wear and tear. This third report  was put to the 
engineer commissioned  by Advantage who maintained his view that the cause was wear  
and tear.
So I was faced with two different views  of the cause  of the fault. There was also 
circumstantial evidence  which suggested  that this part should  last for at least 120,000 miles. 
Of course this was at odds with the suggested  latent problem with this particular model. I 
also noted that Mr G managed to drive for 10,000 miles after buying the car, but I accepted  
that he first became  aware of the problem after a few weeks  and it wasnt  such an issue at 
the outset to prevent him driving the car.
None of the experts had commented on the failure to change  the transmission oil at 40,000  
miles which I am told should have been  done and whether this contributed to the fault. I 
thought it would seem feasible that this could have some bearing  on the longevity of the 
clutch.
While I accepted that wear and tear will occur in cars aged seven years after much 
consideration I didnt  think  that the evidence was such that I could safely conclude  this fault 
wasnt present or developing  at the point  of sale. I believed it was reasonable to expect a 
clutch to last for more  than 70,000  miles and it seemed more  likely to me that this failure was 
caused by something  other than wear and tear. On balance I was persuaded that there was 
an inherent fault with the clutch which would have been present at the point of sale.
On the issue of misrepresentation due to A not informing Mr G that one service  was 
incomplete I didnt believe  I could conclude that I could uphold this element of his complaint. 
The car was sold with a full service  history but it seemed that some of the servicing items 
were not done.  I think if a customer  is told a car has full service history it is implied that all 
servicing was done unless  stated  otherwise. But did this make a difference to Mr G? 
Probably not as he did not seek to reject the car once he found out not everything  had been 
done that should have  been done.
I concluded that Advantage should  terminate the finance agreement and take back the car 
from wherever it was currently held.  It wasnt clear how much Mr G had paid, but he should 
have any monthly payments refunded  from the time the car was taken away by A. My 
understanding was that he didnt pay a deposit, but if he did this should  be returned to him. 
Any sums repaid  would attract interest at 8% per year simple  to run from the date paid until 
the date repaid. He should  not be held responsible for any storage charges and if required 
these should be covered  by Advantage. Any adverse entries  on his credit  file in relation to 
this agreement should be removed by Advantage.
Advantage didnt  agree  and said Mr G hadnt made  any payments  since December 2017 
and he shouldnt get any funds back.  He had used it for 10,000 miles and it felt the decision 
Ref: DRN68585605was punitive due to the passage of time during which the car was depreciating. It asked for 
sight of the technical bulletin. Mr G accepted the decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the provisional decision this service  has pursued further details of the 
manufacturers technical bulletin. This has proved to be challenging, but persistence has 
paid off and it has been supplied to us by the manufacturer.  However,  the manufacturer has 
asked that it be kept confidential. My preference would be to share  that with both parties, but 
I believe I am bound  by confidentiality. However,  I trust both parties  will recognise my 
impartial role and my responsibility to be fair to both.
The bulletin  does refer to gearbox failures for this model and the need to replace the 
gearbox. The bulletin is not a recall, but an information sheet to dealers setting out the 
problem, how it shows up in the car and how to repair it. I am satisfied that it covers Mr Gs 
model and the year of manufacture.  What the bulletin  does is back  up what we already 
believed to be the case from existing information.  As such  it reinforces the view I took in my 
provisional decision and so I have no grounds to alter that.
I appreciate this matter  has taken  time,  but I believe it has been important to establish the 
facts insofar as was possible. I also note that Mr G hasnt made  any payments for some 
time. However he hasnt  had the car for some  time and I am only requiring Advantage to 
return those made by him while  he had no use of the car. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr G has suggested he be compensated for loss of use and the cost of insurance and road 
tax plus train fares. I have  given this consideration, but I believe what  I have proposed, taken  
in the round, adequately  compensates him for this matter 
Ref: DRN68585606my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Advantage Finance Ltd to 
terminate the finance  agreement and take back the car from wherever it is currently  held. It 
isnt clear how much Mr G has paid, but he should have any monthly payments refunded 
from the time the car was taken away by A. My understanding  was that he didnt pay a 
deposit, but if he did this should  be returned  to him. 
Any sums repaid  would attract interest at 8% per year simple  to run from the date paid until 
the date repaid. He should  not be held responsible for any storage charges and if required 
these should be covered  by Advantage. Any adverse entries  on his credit  file in relation to 
this agreement should be removed by Advantage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858560