K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Canada Square Operations Limited, (trading as Egg),  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr E bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a credit  card online.
The policy also included life insurance  and serious illness illness  cover. But my decision only 
deals with the PPI element of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr E disagreed
with the adjudicators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive
followed this in making my decision on Mr Es complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint because:
Ive seen screens of the part of the online  credit  card application process where PPI 
would have been offered to Mr E. This shows that he would have had to choose  whether 
he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application.  Eggs record of the 
application data shows that Mr E selected the PPI. So I think Egg made him aware  that 
the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Egg didnt advise Mr E to take the policy so it didnt have to check  if he needed it or 
whether it was suitable for him. It was up to him up to him to decide whether he wanted
it in the light of him circumstances at the time of the sale As Mr E chose to take the PPI I 
think he wanted to protect  his repayments against illness, sickness  and unemployment.
Egg did have to give Mr E clear,  fair and not-misleading information about  the PPI so 
that he could make and informed  decision  whether  he to take it or not. The screens, to 
which Ive referred  above, explained  that the monthly cost of the policy was 69 pence for 
each £100 on Mr Es balance. So I think he would have  had some idea about  the cost of 
the PPI. Its possible the other information Egg gave  Mr E about the insurance wasnt as 
clear or timely as it should have  been.  For instance it may not have made  it clear  to Mr E 
that he would have had to continue  paying the PPI premiums during a claim. This would 
have meant that the benefit  was less than he might have thought.  But from what I know 
about Mr Es circumstances at the time of the sale he wouldnt have been  affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover  such as being off work because  of a pre-
existing medical condition.
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to similar policies available  in the 
market at the time and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better information would 
have stopped him buying it. This means that Mr E hasnt lost out because  of anything  
wrong in Eggs sales process. So theres  nothing  I require  it to put right.
Ref: DRN60938532my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6093853