K822xcomplaint
Mr R complained about RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of his car breakdown  insurance policy.
Reference to RAC includes their agents.
background 
In February 2017,  through a broker, Mr R took out car, motor legal expenses  and roadside  
breakdown insurance.  The roadside  breakdown policy was underwritten  by RAC and this 
decision only relates to that policy. RAC said that Mr Rs RAC policy cost £103.99. Mr R, 
however, said he paid around £250.
Mr R cancelled his policy in April 2017 and asked for a refund. His RAC policy says that no 
refund of premium would be made  if he cancels after the 14 day cooling off period. RAC 
therefore said he wasnt entitled to a refund. Mr R complained. 
As RAC didnt change  their decision,  Mr R brought his complaint to our service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt that RAC hadnt dealt with Mr R fairly. He said 
that as Mr R only had use of his RAC policy for just over two months, he should be given a 
pro-rata refund for the period he wasnt on cover. But he said RAC  were entitled to deduct a 
reasonable cancellation fee from the refund  he was due back. Our adjudicator also said that 
RAC should pay 8% interest on the amount  he was due back.
RAC agreed  with our adjudicator and said: the cost for the time on cover was £25.99  and 
their cancellation  fee was £50. After deducting  those  amounts from the premium of £103.99  
the amount to be refunded was £28. RAC said they would add £5 to cover the interest  on the 
refund due saying  £5 worked out to be more than the 8% interest suggested  by our 
adjudicator.
But as Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I must decide if RAC  have dealt with Mr R in a fair and reasonable way.
While its correct that the policy says no refund will be paid if cover is cancelled after the 14 
day cooling  off period, given Mr R only had use of the policy  for just over two months, I think  
not giving  him a refund was unfair.  And RAC have agreed to give Mr R a refund for the 
period he wasnt  on cover.  RAC  calculated that amount to be £78. They have deducted a 
cancellation fee of £50 from the refund. I think that as businesses  incur administrative costs 
when cancelling  policies,  its fair for them to charge the policyholder for those costs. I think 
£50 is a reasonable amount.
Mr R told us that he was charged  £250  for the policy. But all the documentary  evidence I 
have seen shows the cost as being £103.99. So on balance I think  he paid £103.99.
Ref: DRN67042262Finally, I think  its fair that RAC should pay simple interest at 8% per year on the £28 refund 
from the date Mr R cancelled the policy in April 2017, until he is paid the refund. RAC  have 
proposed paying an amount of interest  that is higher  than 8%. Provided the interest  paid to 
Mr R is not less than 8%, RAC can pay a higher amount if they wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require RAC Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr R a refund of £28. Interest should be added to that figure at the rate of 8% simple per 
year from the date of cancellation to the date of reimbursement.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
  
1 If RAC consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr R how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6704226