K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about Advantage Insurance  Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background 
Mr M has had his car insurance  with Advantage since  2011.  When his policy  renewed in 
December 2015  his premium cost around  £240  (excluding insurance premium  tax, optional 
extras and fees). In July 2016, Mr M was involved in an accident that damaged  his car. The 
accident wasnt Mr Ms fault. Advantage dealt with Mr Ms claim under his policy and 
pursued the other drivers  insurer  for their (Advantages)  outlay (what  they paid out to settle 
the claim).
The matter  was concluded in early 2018 when the claim was formally closed as not being 
Mr Ms fault.  The claim was, as is car insurance industry practice,  recorded  as non-fault 
against Mr Ms driving history on a shared insurance database.
But during  Mr Ms December 2016 and December 2017 policy renewals, the claim remained 
open as it still hadn't  been concluded. Advantage treated the open claim as a fault claim for 
the purposes of calculating  Mr Ms renewal premiums. That led to his premiums  during both 
renewals being  higher  than they would have been had the claim  been  treated as non-fault. 
Once the claim concluded as non-fault, Advantage recalculated Mr Ms 2016 and 2017 
premiums on the basis that he had a non-fault claim at those times. As a result, Advantage 
gave Mr M a refund of £40.95  for the 2016 renewal and £23.88  for the 2017 renewal.  But 
even with those  refunds,  Mr Ms premiums for 2016  and 2017  were much higher than his 
premium for the 2015 renewal.
Mr M complained saying that on the day of his 2016  renewal he spoke with Advantage who 
told him that once the claim closed as non-fault,  he would get full refunds that would bring 
his 2016 and 2017 premiums down to a similar  amount as his 2015  premium. Advantage 
said that the refunds they had made  were  accurate.  But they also said that internally they 
should have recorded the claim as non-fault from the start and not as fault. Although  on the 
external database  it would have  still been recorded as a fault claim until it was concluded  in 
Mr Ms favour. Advantage  said they couldnt  locate the recording of the call Mr M had with 
Advantage during which he said they promised a full refund that would bring  his premiums 
down to the level of his 2015 premium. Advantage said they gave Mr M the full refunds he 
was entitled to. Advantage paid Mr M £65 compensation for other service issues. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators  looked  into it. Advantage 
later located  the recording  of the policy renewal call Mr M had with Advantage in early 
December 2016.  Our adjudicator felt that Advantage could have been clearer  during that call 
about what refunds  Mr M could expect to receive once his claim closed as non-fault. Our 
adjudicator felt that the 2016  and 2017 premiums  had been calculated  correctly and that the 
refunds made to Mr M were also accurate. But he recommended that Advantage pay Mr M 
£100 compensation because he felt that had Advantage been clearer, Mr M could have 
shopped around for a cheaper policy. But as Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN67167622My provisional decision was issued on 26 September 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im only intending  
to uphold this complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
Ive listened very carefully to the recording of the call between Mr M and Advantages 
call handler which took place on 4 December 2016.  I understand that Advantage had 
sent Mr M his renewal quote  before then and that the premium shown was over 
£600. When Mr M called  he said he had received a better quote online with another  
insurer for just over £600. The call handler  then started discussing the benefits of 
Advantages policy and comparing it with the other insurers offer to Mr M.
Mr M said that his renewal premium had gone  up a lot because of the non-fault  claim 
he had when compared to his 2015  premium. The call handler explained that was 
because the claim was open and ongoing,  although he did say as far as Advantage  
were concerned the accident wasnt Mr Ms fault.  He went on to say that the increase 
appeared to be because  Mr Ms no claims bonus  (NCB) had been affected  as a 
result of the claim. I think what the call handler meant was that Mr M hadnt been  
awarded an extra NCB year for the policy  year in which  the accident happened.  I 
understand that once the claim  closed  as non-fault and Advantage recalculated  the 
2016 and 2017 premiums,  they did award  Mr M a NCB year for the policy  year in 
which the accident happened and, as explained above, recalculated the premiums  on 
the basis he had a non-fault claim at the times of the renewals.
I think it would be helpful if I detail the conversation that took place, as follows:
Mr M: Asking if once the claim  closed as non-fault would I be eligible to get some 
kind of money back?.
Call handler:  Yes,  at that point we would reassess  your policy.  And quote  what  it 
would be as if nothing  happened so to say.
Mr M: So Id get a refund for some of the money? 
Call handler:  Yeah,  again we would have  to base it on what  the prices are at the 
time. Cos again, you know, we cant say youd definitely get some money back But 
you know it could work  both ways if you know what I mean.
Mr M: Itll be a lot better than £600  quid Im sure. I believe Mr M was referring to the 
new quote he got from the other insurer.
Call handler:  yeah,  yeah well its more than likely yes, but its subject to what  the 
market is so you know I couldnt give you a firm affirmative on that so. But, as I say, 
the idea is that once  everything is sorted you know you would then be indemnified to 
put back in the position  where you would be if this incident hadnt happened.  So we 
would reassess everything for yourself  and then quote you based  on you again 
having a clean history  shall we say.
Mr M: Okay.
Ref: DRN67167623Mr M and the call handler discussed  further  the benefits of Advantages policy  and 
the call handler  gave Mr M a £92 discount. Mr M then said his address had changed 
and asked for the policy to be amended. Once  that change  was made the call 
handler told Mr M that it had reduced his premium  by £67.88 and that he had given a 
further £50 discount. So the 2016  renewal premium  reduced to well under £600.
So, having  listed  to the call very carefully,  Im satisfied that at no point did 
Advantages call handler tell Mr M that once the claim  closed as non-fault  would his 
2016 and 2017 premiums  reduce to the level of the 2015 premium. I think the call 
handler made it clear  that there was no certainty  that Mr M would even get any 
refund. He said the policy would be reassessed and base  it on what  the prices are 
at the time. Cos again, you know, we cant say youd definitely get some money 
back And a refund was subject  to what the market  is so you know  I couldnt give 
you a firm affirmative on that so.
Advantage told Mr M that they should  have treated the claim,  internally, as a non-
fault claim.  Thats a somewhat unusual stance  as I am aware  that the industry 
practice is that even  in circumstances  where  the evidence is overwhelming in favour 
of a policyholder  not being  at fault for an accident,  insurers treat open  claims as fault 
claims for the purposes  of policy renewals and premium calculations.  Thats  because 
insurers won't usually  say a claim is non-fault until its recouped  its outlay for a claim. 
And things  can and do change which sometimes results in a policyholder being found 
at fault for an accident, notwithstanding  that they weren't to blame for it. 
But Advantage have said that they should  have treated the claim as non-fault.  So I 
think they should have charged  Mr M the 2016 renewal premium on the basis that he 
had a non-fault claim, which would have  meant  he would have known exactly how 
much the premium would  have cost. As far as Im aware, during that call Advantage 
had all the necessary  facts before  them on which to rate the 2016 policy  as a non-
fault claim.  Likewise, when the policy came to renew  in December 2017, Advantage 
could have again given Mr M the actual cost of the premium. But that doesnt change  
my view that during  the December 2016  call, Advantage didnt tell Mr M that when his 
claim closed  as non-fault at some time in the future, that he would get a refund to 
bring his premiums down  to the level of the 2015  premium. 
What it has meant though  is that Mr M unnecessarily paid £40.95 more  for the 2016 
renewal policy and £23.88 more for the 2017  policy, respectively. Although Mr M was 
refunded those amounts once the claim closed as non-fault, I think  he was 
unnecessarily deprived of those amounts at the time.  Rather than ask Advantage to 
pay interest on those amounts to address the fact that Mr M was unnecessarily  
deprived of that money, I think it would be fair to ask them  to pay a total amount of 
£100 compensation. So I intend to ask Advantage  to do that as I feel that they should 
have charged Mr M the actual premiums that were due at the 2016 and 2017 
renewals.
Mr M feels that the cost of his premiums for the 2016 and 2017 premiums  were 
unfairly high. It might  help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator.  That 
means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. 
And our service  generally takes  the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that 
is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need  to in order to cover a risk.
Ref: DRN67167624When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk rating factors. In other  words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder 
poses and the likelihood of them making  a claim in the future by looking at many  
different factors. It might  help if I give just a few examples  of the many factors 
insurers consider: the type of car insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders  
occupation; the policyholders age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length 
of time the car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder  has been 
driving; and past driving incidents  the policyholder has been involved  in. But its not 
down to me to tell insurers  what factors  they should take into account when 
assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers  will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a 
matter of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against the need  to compete with 
other policies on offer,  and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere 
with.
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  Advantage, like most insurers I know  of, say that statistically  
policyholders involved  in non-fault accidents are at a higher risk of being involved in 
accidents and making  claims in the future. As insurance is essentially an assessment 
of risk, I dont think theres anything  wrong  with insurers considering whether or not 
certain individuals fall into higher risk groupings and so wish to charge a higher 
premium to cover that risk.
Advantage provided me with information to show how Mr Ms premiums were  
calculated. I know Mr M asked to see that information, but it is commercially sensitive 
so I can't share it with him. But having  looked  at it carefully, Im satisfied that 
Advantage treated Mr M in the same way as they would other policyholders in similar 
circumstances. So I think they calculated his premium reasonably.  
The process of setting premiums is very complex.  As Ive said above, insurers 
consider hundreds of risk factors.  And most  factors are reviewed very regularly and 
do often change. To give an example,  the risk level of a certain model of car on 1 
February 2018 may increase  on 3 February 2018. That may be because  on 2 
February 2018 the insurers updated statistics show the particular model  to be a 
higher risk. Equally, risk ratings on factors may decrease. Thats what happened  
when Mr M changed his policy address when he took out his 2016  policy, his 
premium reduced by almost £70. I would like to give one other example which  will 
also address a point  Mr M raised. When Mr M changed the car that was insured 
under his policy towards the end of his 2015  policy, his premium  increased by around 
£11 per month. Mr M said that as his new car was very similar  to his old car, his 
premium shouldnt have  been increased. But it was still a different car. And one of 
the risk factors many  insurers rate on is how long a policyholder  has owned a car. So 
if a policyholder has owned a car for several years,  the assumption  is that the 
policyholder is familiar  with the car, which reduces the risk involved because  of the 
policyholders familiarity  with that car. But, as in Mr Ms case, when  a new car is 
bought the assumption is that the policyholder is less familiar with the car, which  
increases the risk involved. But as time passes the policyholders familiarity 
Ref: DRN67167625increases by using  the same car. Mr M specifically raised this point when he said he 
had the same car at the 2016 renewal as well as the 2018 renewal, yet the premium  
was lower in 2018.  But another factor is that the non-fault claim in 2018 was over two 
years old. Again, for most insurers, the older the past claim the more  its impact 
diminishes for the purposes of risk which then translates into a reduction of premium. 
As Ive said above,  there are many, many  factors,  most of them inter linked and 
complex, so it would be very difficult to explain each and everyone.  But from the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr M the same they would 
have any other customer with the same circumstances.
Finally, Mr M said that Advantage had told him that a fault claim will increase an 
annual premium by 15% and a non-fault claim would increase  it by 7%. He has 
pointed out that once  the claim closed as non-fault his premiums for the 2016 and 
2017 policy years  increased  by much more than 7% compared to his 2015 premium. 
But Advantage have explained that they didnt mean  a non-fault claim would increase 
the previous years premium by 7%. They said the fact that there was a non-fault 
claim would increase the premium for the subsequent policy year by 7%. But there 
might be other rating factors at renewal which have increased in risk that also played 
a part in the premium going  up. 
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Advantage said they had nothing 
further to add. Mr M didnt  provide any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the inconvenience he 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr M has accepted 
my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6716762