K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how MCE Insurance Company Limited  handled his claim on his motor  
insurance policy after his motorbike was damaged. 
background
Mr Ms bike was hit by a van and he made a claim on the vans  insurance. But he said MCE 
wouldnt handle his claim. He said it passed him to solicitors to deal with his claim for 
damages against the vans insurer.  Mr M thought  MCE  didnt want  to help him and the 
solicitors said they wouldnt represent him after he made a complaint. Mr M was unhappy 
with this level of service. MCE said it had done  all it needed to do, but it offered Mr M £50 
compensation for not making  it clear to him that the solicitors were  a separate company.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained  that 
we couldnt look at Mr Ms complaint about  the solicitors. He thought  Mr M was covered for 
third party, fire and theft by his policy with MCE. So he thought it didnt need to cover his 
loss. He also thought its level of service  in phone calls had been reasonable.
Mr M said hed been kept on hold on the phone for over an hour. He said MCE had offered 
him £50 compensation, but this had now been withdrawn. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. His bike was damaged through  no fault of his own and 
he obtained an admission  of liability from the vans driver and his company. He then sought 
help from MCE but was disappointed by its response. 
But I can see that Mr Ms policy doesnt  provide comprehensive cover. It provides cover for 
third party, fire and theft. MCE  explained  to Mr M that his policy wouldnt provide cover for 
his non fault claim. I think this was fair and reasonable as its clear from the policy  
documents. 
MCE then referred Mr M to a solicitors firm to help claim his damages  from the vans insurer.  
MCE first said it hadnt made  it clear  to Mr M that the solicitors were  a separate company. It 
later said it thought Mr M was made aware  of this and withdrew its offer of £50 
compensation for this.  
Ive listened to the call when Mr M first discussed  his claim with MCE. The agent explained 
that as the claim  was non-fault  and Mr M wasnt claiming on his own policy, then it would 
refer him to a claims management company which Mr M declined.  It then offered him a 
referral to a solicitors company. 
Mr M was initially unhappy that this would take too much time and that the solicitors  werent 
qualified to undertake repairs. This was discussed  and I think  it was made clear  to Mr M that 
the solicitors were another company and they would help him recover  the costs of his 
damages. So I think Mr M was made reasonably aware that the solicitors were a separate  
company and I dont  require  MCE  to compensate him for giving unclear information about  
this. 
Ref: DRN60046502Mr M was then unhappy with the solicitors level of service. He complained  to it and it then 
decided to withdraw its offer of service.  But as the investigator has explained this isnt 
something I can consider  under the rules that regulate us. This is because  Mr M didnt 
instruct the solicitors  and the service  provided by the solicitors isnt regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Mr M said he was unhappy with the length of time he was kept on hold in his calls to MCE. I 
can see that there was a delay in Mr M being transferred to the solicitors.  But this wasnt 
MCEs fault. I think the calls he was complaining about were related to the solicitors  service. 
So I think Mr M needs to raise his concerns about the solicitors with the Legal  Ombudsman. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6004650