K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that delays and poor service  by Moneybarn No.1 Limited  in terminating his 
finance agreement  has caused him financial loss. He wants compensation.
background
Mr S tells us that the vehicle he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement was written 
off in an accident. He says that delays in terminating  the agreement  led to Moneybarn 
incorrectly trying to claim a direct debit from his account in respect  of a monthly payment. 
And he said it then prevented him from making payments under the arrangement hed made 
with it to repay the shortfall that had arisen following  the insurance settlement. He says hes 
suffered financial loss as well as stress leading him to have  time off work. 
Moneybarn told us Mr S entered the agreement  in May 2018.  But in October 2018 it said the 
vehicle had been involved in an accident  and was written off. As a result the agreement was 
terminated. It said a shortfall of £743.14 had arisen  on the agreement - after the insurance  
payout - which  Mr S was required to pay. But it said it had reduced this by £100 to reflect the 
delay in terminating the agreement and the fact that a direct debit payment had been 
incorrectly called for.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said there had 
been a delay in terminating the agreement. And Mr S had not been able to start a repayment 
plan on the correct date. But she didnt think this affected the amount of the shortfall. So she 
wouldnt be asking Moneybarn to waive  this sum.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome and felt it was biased towards the business. As its not 
been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S had the misfortune to have his vehicle written  off following an accident. 
And I can see that the process of winding  up the finance agreement has resulted in further 
inconvenience for him.
I dont think there are any significant factual disputes  regarding  the sequence of events and I 
can see the adjudicator compiled a timeline  which she checked  with Mr S. Apart from the 
addition of one contact with Moneybarn - about  the payment arrangement - Mr S agreed  with 
this summary. 
I can see the accident occurred in early  October  2018 - but it wasnt until several weeks later 
that the agreement was formally terminated.  In the meantime Moneybarn had issue a default 
warning notice and later attempted to take a monthly  payment by direct debit. Ive seen  the 
direct debit was returned unpaid  but that Mr S wasnt charged for this.
Ref: DRN65924542Moneybarn has accepted there  were  delays in terminating the agreement - which led to the 
direct debit being called for. And it accepted  Mr S had been wrongly advised that it would  be 
21 days after the default notice before the agreement would be terminated. In recognition  of 
the errors  Moneybarn has credited £100 to his account - which left the balance owing at 
£643.14. I think that was fair.
The notes Ive seen  confirm there  was a payment plan agreed  on 15 November 2018 at 
£73.70 per month. The first payment was to be taken by card on 1 December with a direct  
debit set up for the remainder. But it seems  theres  then been a delay - due to the future  
interest on the agreement  having  to be removed. And this meant that Mr S wasnt  able to 
commence payments at the time hed expected.  Whilst I can understand that this would be 
the cause of some frustration I dont think its resulted in any financial loss. But Im not aware 
of any other  impediment to his starting to make  the repayments. And I cant  see hes since 
made any payments  or set up the direct debit.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ss credit  record - which he supplied. This was updated on 7 March 
2019 and theres  no indication  of any late payments  or other adverse markers relating to this 
account. The record indicates the account  is paid up to date - with a balance of £643 due to 
be paid. But Id expect  future updates to include details of the payment arrangement. As I 
cant see that Moneybarn  has reported any adverse information I shant be asking it do 
anything else about this aspect. Although if Mr S fails to make payments Moneybarn will be 
entitled to report  this to the credit reference agencies.
Im aware that Mr S thinks that the way Moneybarn has dealt with his complaint has led to 
him suffering from stress and being  declared unfit for work. And Ive seen a doctors note - 
which declares that Mr S was found unfit for work  for a period  in November 2018. The note 
does not detail any cause of the stress. Im sorry that Mr S has experienced poor health and 
I would think its quite  likely that anyone who has been involved with a serious  motor  
accident might suffer  a reaction. Whether  this is the case with Mr S I cant say. Stress can 
result from a large number of causes and theres no persuasive evidence to say anything 
Moneybarn has done has led to Mr Ss condition.
In summary,  I find that there were delays  in terminating the agreement and in processing the 
payment arrangement.  And that Moneybarn tried to take a direct  debit after the date the 
agreement ought  reasonably to have been terminated. But I dont  think  these errors resulted 
in any direct financial loss to Mr S. And they have not changed the amount he was required 
to pay to settle the shortfall. So I shant be asking  Moneybarn  to waive any of the sum due.
Moneybarn acknowledged it had made  errors and credited  Mr Ss account  with £100. I think 
that is a fair and reasonable way in which to resolve  this complaint.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN65924543Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6592454