K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  about the service  she received  from Amtrust International Underwriters DAC 
under her mobile  phone  insurance policy.
My references to Amtrust include its agent. 
background
In May 2018  Ms Es phone was stolen. She made  a claim and Amtrust sent her a 
replacement phone the following month.  
In July 2018 Ms E told Amtrust the replacement phone hadnt worked properly since it had 
been sent to her and now wouldnt turn on at all. She returned the phone to Amtrust.  
Around a month later Amtrust said the phone had water damage. Ms E paid a £75 policy 
excess for the replacement phone to be repaired.  She also complained  about the delay in 
Amtrust handling her claim. She said it had initially told her the phone had been successfully 
repaired but was now saying it had water damage,  which shed not caused.  She asked 
Amtrust to loan her a phone.  It said it couldnt  do this so she bought one herself.  Amtrust  
later replaced the damaged phone under the insurance policy.  
Amtrust said the claim delay was because Ms E hadnt disconnected the phone  from the 
iCloud, and it had asked her to do this a number of times. It was only when she confirmed 
shed removed the phone from the iCloud that it could fully test the phone.  And then it found 
the water  damage. So it didnt accept it had done anything wrong. Ms E came to us.
Our investigator thought Amtrust had handled the claim fairly, without undue delay. So he 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Ms E didnt agree and the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it and Ill 
explain why.
Under the policy Amtrust  was able to replace Ms Es stolen phone with a refurbished model. 
But theres a dispute  about the quality of the replacement phone  it supplied.
Ms E says that the phone was faulty  from the outset. But she first reported the problems to 
Amtrust on 20 July 2018, which was over a month after it sent her the phone. She said shed 
been unable  to make  or receive  calls properly, and the phone would switch  off for no reason. 
On the date she reported the problems she said the phone  wouldnt turn on at all. She asked 
for a replacement phone that worked. 
I dont think Amtrust was responsible for the delay in testing the phone. It promptly asked 
Ms E to return  the phone,  which she did. It also asked her remove it from the iCloud. As she 
says Amtrust did tell her that it had successfully repaired the handset but it also said it 
couldnt fully test the phone until shed removed the iCloud link. Despite several reminders it 
was only on 29 August 2018  that Ms E confirmed shed removed the phone  from the iCloud  
account. 
Ref: DRN67740702Within two days of Ms E removing the iCloud link Amtrust  tested the phone and found  the 
water damage. I think Amtrust could have  attempted a repair before that which had seemed 
successful, as it had said. But importantly it did tell her that it still needed to run tests  even 
though it said it had successfully repaired the phone. Because of the results of the tests,  
Amtrust needed to open the phone. This showed  water damage,  and Amtrust sent Ms E the 
photos of the damage. 
I understand Ms E says that the water  damage  must have happened  while  Amtrust had the 
phone in its possession.  I accept its a possibility Amtrust did cause the damage, or it 
happened while in Amtrusts possession. But I dont  think, on balance,  its likely Amtrust 
damaged the phone or that it did so in order to claim an additional £75 excess from Ms E as 
shes suggested. 
In my view Amtrust has done  enough to show the phone was water  damaged.  I think 
Amtrust was correct when  it said this isnt something  thats covered under the terms of the 
12-month guarantee for the replacement phone. So it was entitled to ask Ms E to pay the 
£75 excess. I cant  fairly require Amtrust  to refund  that money  to her. 
I appreciate Ms E wanted Amtrust to loan her a phone while she waited for a repair  or 
replacement to her damaged phone.  But it wasnt required to do that under the policy  terms. 
So I cant fairly require  it to pay the cost of the replacement  phone.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774070