K820x#14complaint
Mr W1 and Mr W2 say Positive Solutions  (Financial Services) Limited  mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr W1 and Mr W2 took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage in 2008. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.
I issued a provisional decision giving Mr W1 and Mr W2 and Positive Solutions the 
opportunity to respond. No additional  comments or information was provided. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W1 and Mr W2s case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr W1 and Mr W2s complaint because:
I think Positive Solutions most  likely made  Mr W1 and Mr W2 aware that they had a 
choice about buying the MPPI,  and they chose  to take it. I say this because the mortgage 
offer clearly  stated  that Mr W1 and Mr W2 only needed to take out buildings insurance as 
a condition  of the mortgage. And I think theyd have had to complete a separate direct  
debit mandate (and possibly application  form) for the MPPI.
Positive Solutions  most likely recommended  the MPPI to Mr W1 and Mr W2 at the 
same time as recommending the mortgage. The mortgage  application indicated  the 
advisor was completing  the MPPI application.  The MPPI seems to have been right for 
Mr W1 and Mr W2 based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. While 
they were entitled to some sick and redundancy pay, the MPPI wouldve paid out on 
top of this and for longer   covering  their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months.  
That wouldve left any payments from their employer (and the small amount of savings 
they had) available for other things.
Its unclear what information Mr W1 and Mr W2 were given about the cost of the MPPI.  
So its possible Positive Solutions couldve explained the cost better. But even if it had 
made the cost clear, I think Mr W1 and Mr W2 would still have bought it. This is because 
of the importance  of keeping up with their mortgage repayments, and the fact they only 
had limited  means to do this if one of them couldnt work.
Its possible  that Positive  Solutions didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Mr W1 and Mr W2 dont appear to have been affected by any of those 
things.
Ive taken into account Mr W1 and Mr W2s comments, including what  theyve said about 
having the impression that the MPPI was compulsory. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. Ive explained above that I think the mortgage offer made it clear they didnt 
Ref: DRN69633302need insurance other than buildings insurance.  And theres not enough evidence for me 
to say that Positive Solutions did something  wrong  to give them that impression.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6963330