K821x#15Complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in 2000, at the same time as applying  for a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI online. 
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as an IT technician. According  to Eggs internal records, 
when he made his complaint in 2016 he told it he couldnt recall if he was entitled  to 
enhanced redundancy  pay from his employer but that he was entitled  to full pay for up to 
three months if he was off work  sick. And that he couldnt recall if he had any savings but 
that he could have relied on his family  for help. He later told us he was entitled  to full pay for 
up to six months and half pay for up to six months after that. Mr D told us he had savings 
worth around 12 months pay. 
Mr Ds consistently indicated that he had no health concerns at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, death  and serious 
illness  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to 10% of Mr Ds 
credit card balance in the event of a successful  claim  for accident and sickness or 
unemployment. At the time, it cost 59p per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Egg sent us a copy statement  dated May 2019  to show  that the credit card account  was still 
running at that time.
Mr Ds representatives made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I wont 
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr Ds 
representative said:
Egg failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr D was advised to take the policy, despite what  Egg says about  there  being  no 
advice given;
The true costs of the policy, including interest, werent disclosed; 
The exclusions and limitations of cover were  such  that theyd be considered  unfair 
under the Unfair  Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR); and
The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing valuable  cover,  but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope 
of the cover meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN63254462Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld   both parties  have seen the 
adjudicators opinion and have been given the opportunity to respond.  Mr D disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion  for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After  
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold. I also explained  why I considered Eggs offer to pay back to Mr D any 
commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the premium was fair. I gave the 
parties the opportunity to respond  before I considered the complaint again.
Egg said it had nothing add in response to my provisional decision other than to confirm  its 
offer regarding commission and profit share. 
Mr D didnt respond to my provisional decision.
My findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations  
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgement in Plevin  about s.140  of that Act and the rules  and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgement  are applicable. Ill return to this issue later in the 
decision.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN63254463The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Egg, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Egg at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these  codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ds 
case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence);  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman (OBO)  might have  been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the OBOs terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in their opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Egg 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ds complaint.  
Key questions   
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Egg gave advice, whether it advised Mr D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN63254464-Whether Egg gave  Mr D sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and Egg 
before and after I issued my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ds mis-sale 
complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Mr D know he had a choice?
Egg had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen sample screenshots that Im satisfied Mr D would have seen when he applied for 
his credit card. These allowed him to select whether he wanted to include PPI with his card 
or not. Egg says, and I accept from the information  Ive seen and in the absence of sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, that PPI was added when he applied for the credit card. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  that Egg presented  the policy to Mr D as 
being optional  and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Did Egg provide advice?
Egg says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr D disagrees. 
I accept the sale took place  online, as Mr D and Egg agree. I cant see that there was any 
direct contact between Mr D and any of Eggs representatives that would have provided it 
with the opportunity to give him advice  about the policy.
Mr D points to Eggs online screenshots which include  the wording At Egg we want you to 
be secure in the knowledge that should you have an accident, become sick or unemployed, 
you will not need to worry about your card repayments and says this indicates  it 
recommended the policy  to him. But Ive not seen anything which persuades  me that Egg 
made a personal  recommendation  that he take out the policy,  such as evidence  showing 
either that he was asked  a series of questions  to allow Egg to gain an understanding  of his 
specific circumstances and needs  or that he was led to reasonably believe hed been given 
advice. Rather Egg alerted Mr D to the fact that he could  take out the policy  and gave him 
information about it.
So, looking  at what happened when  Egg sold Mr D the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.
This means  Egg didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr D. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr D to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN63254465The information
Eggs provided us with screenshots it says Mr D would have seen, together  with the policy 
terms and conditions  which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to policies like 
Mr Ds. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr D at the time, I dont think Egg gave Mr D the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  online. I can see that Egg described the PPI policy as providing  cover  
against unemployment and accidents and sickness (I cant see that it mentioned cover for 
death or serious illness). It also informed Mr D that the policy helped cover his card 
repayments at the cost of 59p per £100  of his monthly statement balance.
The information provided would have given Mr D a broad sense of the main things the policy  
covered. But it was Eggs responsibility to draw  to Mr Ds attention  the important information 
 i.e. the key information about  the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Egg did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr D, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Egg adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Egg gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  to the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
What effect did Eggs shortcomings  have on Mr D? To what extent did Mr D suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Egg didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr D. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr D suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr D would have still 
taken out the policy,  had Egg done  things properly. 
Mr D says he wouldnt have taken the policy out and believes that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr D had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
Ref: DRN63254466this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr D thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr D ought  reasonably to have known hed have to pay 
something for the PPI as this was likely  set out on the screens hed have seen  when he 
applied for the policy. I accept that Egg didnt make clear the ongoing cost information or that 
the policy limited the number of monthly  benefit  payments to 12 per claim. Mr Ds given very 
different accounts  of how much sick pay hed have been entitled to from his employer and of 
how much  he held,  if anything, in savings at the time. But, either way, the policy  would have 
helped reduce his outgoings at a difficult time and might potentially  have helped preserve 
Mr Ds sick pay/savings for other  use. 
In addition, the policy would more than cover the contractual monthly  minimum payment and 
had the potential to clear  the outstanding balance in full in certain circumstances. So while 
Mr D didnt know some  things,  the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim wasnt 
dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he based his 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which treatment or 
advice had been suggested in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy  and had 
recurred within 24 months after the start,  or had been diagnosed or led him to 
experience significant  and substantive symptoms during the same periods; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr D be unable  to 
do his own work,  or other work that his experience, education or training would allow. 
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr D pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the policy. 
For example, back pain and mental health  conditions are common  problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr D might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely hed have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest hed have  been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
for example, Mr D didnt  have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent 
employment. 
I still think Mr D had some good  reasons to take the policy out. The evidence  about Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. 
He was eligible  for its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations  and 
Ref: DRN63254467exclusions, could  have proved valuable to him should the insured risks have become a 
reality. 
If Mr D had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any other job which, in the insurers view, he might  reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
played into his thinking about  what hed have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr D was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances that hed 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding the employment benefits hed likely have received and his 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.   
In saying that, Ive taken  into account what Mr Ds said about the limitations  of the policy,  for 
example that the maximum monthly benefit  was £1,500.  Mr D says that limitation, and others,  
meant the extent of the cover  fell short of what he was led to believe it was, and were 
contractual terms which were unfair. 
Ive considered the argument carefully.
In this case the complaints against the seller of the policy,  Egg, whos also the lender, but 
who is not the insurer. The terms have been put into the contract by the insurer and can only 
be exercised by the insurer. So what the insurer can and cant  do and whether its acted 
unfairly or not isnt something I can consider here.  My consideration in this case is whether 
Egg acted  fairly and reasonably towards Mr D when it sold him the policy.  And if it did not, 
whether and to what extent I think hes lost out as a result.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Egg should  have  done more  to clearly bring the relevant 
contractual terms to Mr Ds attention. And, having done so, I think it should have done 
more given the nature of the terms. So I think Mr D would have wanted to know  about 
them. Because Mr D wasnt  clearly told, I dont think Egg acted fairly and reasonably 
towards him.
But even if Egg had done more to highlight the terms clearly  to Mr D, I dont think  this would 
have made  a difference to his decision to buy the PPI for the reasons Ive already explained.
Im also aware that Mr D thinks Egg misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Eggs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Egg failed to act fairly  
and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information  it provided  but 
because the overall  information Egg gave  Mr D, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the 
standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2000 when providing 
information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive considered what Mr Ds said about Eggs fine by the FCA relating to how it sold some 
PPI in the past. However, I note it was fined for certain phone sales made between 2005 and 
2007. Its already  been established  in this case that Egg sold Mr D PPI online in 2000. So 
Im satisfied that the fine, and the reasons for it, dont impact on his complaint.
Ref: DRN63254468Overall, the above  means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
 so it should have told Mr D about  that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Eggs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in this case.
What Egg needs  to do
Egg has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already  done so. Egg should also pay back to Mr D any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr D the difference  between 
what Mr D owes  and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mr D 8%* simple interest if 
he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN63254469My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats,  in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above my decision  is that I dont  find that the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6325446