K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to refund the cost of her holiday when she 
raised a claim under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In 2018 Mrs C paid for a holiday  using her HSBC credit card.  She later complained about a 
number of problems  with the holiday,  which were:
The hotel  was advertised as being  a ten minute  stroll from the nearest village, but it 
was further away  and could only be reached  by taxi,
The nearest  town  was advertised  as being  5km away, but it was further than that,
The local beach was advertised as sandy,  but it was pebbly,
The bar was so noisy  that it kept her awake at night,
The balcony and hot tub did not offer sufficient privacy,
The balcony overlooked a weed  garden,
The service in the restaurant  was poor,
The minibar was only refilled  every other day, and she had to pay for the drinks,
On return to the UK there was no bus to collect them at the airport.
The travel company refunded Mrs C €80 for her taxi fares,  and sent her a voucher for £370 
off her next holiday booking. But she refused the voucher, and asked HSBC for a full refund 
of her entire holiday instead.  But HSBC refused, so she brought this complaint to our 
Service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold most of this complaint.  He agreed that the hotel  was further 
from the village than advertised and he agreed  that the beach had not been sandy. He 
recommended that HSBC  refund  ten percent of the total cost of the holiday for those issues, 
minus the €80 already refunded (which he assessed was worth £75). But he did not uphold  
the rest of this complaint.
HSBC agreed with the adjudicators recommendation,  but Mrs C did not. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, and for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Section 75 makes HSBC,  as the provider of credit, jointly and severally  liable for a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by the travel  agency Mrs C paid with her credit card. Another 
law makes the travel agency liable  for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel 
or by the airline, if this was a package holiday. No-one has suggested that this was not a 
package holiday,  so I have assumed that it was. HSBC has agreed to refund Mrs C. But the 
travel agency is not responsible for providing  a bus at the UK airport,  and no law makes the 
travel agency liable for anything the airport did or failed to do. So section  75 does not extend 
to that part of this complaint.
The essence  of this complaint is that HSBC  wrongly  declined Mrs Cs claim  for a refund 
under section 75. I uphold that complaint in part.
Ref: DRN66568882There is clear  evidence  that the village was more than a ten minute walk away,  although it is 
certainly not a 15-minute taxi journey as Mrs C suggested. The centre of the village is a 21-
minute walk away, according to Google Maps.  So I uphold that part of her complaint. The 
town which was advertised  as being  5km away is actually 7km away, or a 12-minute taxi 
ride, so I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about that issue.
The beach  was advertised as sandy,  but it is not in dispute that it was pebbly, so I uphold  
that part of this complaint. I think that ten percent off the total cost of the holiday,  minus £75 
for the refund already paid, is fair compensation for those two issues.
I do not uphold  the rest of this complaint.
I would not expect the drinks in the hotel minibar to be free. If it was not refilled  every  day 
then Im sure that room  service would have brought whatever was needed, so I dont think  
that amounts  to a breach of contract  by the hotel.  I dont  think the hotel can be liable for 
noise made  by the other guests, so if the bar was noisy,  then that cant be helped.  I wouldnt 
expect a balcony or a hot tub, which are outdoors, to be private.  Nor were they were 
advertised as being private. The view from the balcony was not described  in the brochure, 
so I dont think the view Mrs C had amounts to a breach of contract.
Mrs Cs description  of the service in the hotel restaurant, which  is not in dispute, does sound  
like rather poor service.  But I dont think every instance of poor service  will necessarily 
amount to a breach of contract. There is no evidence  that Mrs C ate elsewhere during the 
week-long holiday, which I would have expected her to do if the hotels restaurant  was 
consistently poor. There were other restaurants in the village and in the town, as well as 
another hotel  next door. So on the balance of probabilities, I dont think Mrs Cs experience 
in the hotel restaurant amounts to a breach of contract by the hotel or by the travel  agency.
It follows that I agree with HSBCs decision to reject Mrs Cs claim under section 75, except 
in respect of the two issues described  above   the beach and the distance from the village.  
And I agree with the adjudicators suggested  remedy.
Before I conclude, I should explain why I am not requiring HSBC to refund the holiday  in full. 
The two issues I have  agreed Mrs C should  be refunded for are misrepresentations, and my 
starting point for compensation  on upholding a complaint about misrepresentation would be 
to put the complainant back in the same position  she would have been in if she had never 
entered the contract with the travel agency.  That would usually mean issuing a full refund. 
But in this case that is impossible, because Mrs C has already been on the holiday. Its not 
possible to undo  that, so giving her a full refund  would be equivalent to giving her a free 
holiday. That would not be proportionate or fair.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay 
Mrs C ten percent of what she paid in total, minus  £75. That comes to a total of £177.28.
Ref: DRN66568883Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6656888