K820x#14complaint
Mr S and his three brothers complain that Zurich Insurance PLC avoided  their home 
insurance policy (treated  as if it never existed)  and refused  their claim following a fire at one 
of their properties.
background
Mr S and his three brothers had a home insurance policy  with Zurich to cover  a number of 
properties they rent out. They took out the policy in September  2015.
In November 2016 there was a fire at one of the properties. They  made a claim on the 
insurance. 
Zurich sent out its agent to inspect the damage  after the fire and to ask Mr S and his 
brothers some questions.  After some time, it wrote to them to explain that they had made  a 
number of misrepresentations both when taking out the policy and at renewal. It said if it had 
been provided with the correct information  it wouldnt have offered or renewed  the policy. So 
it said it wouldnt accept the claim and was avoiding their policy. However  it said it would 
refund the premiums  paid.
Mr S and his brothers didnt think this was fair. They disputed that they had given  incorrect 
information. They made a complaint to Zurich.
Zurich didnt uphold  their complaint. It said it was satisfied from its investigations that when 
the policy was taken out it hadnt  been made aware of the following information:
The property where the fire took place  was being  used to store  various building 
materials,
Housing benefits were  being received for two of the other  properties  covered under 
the policy,
There was no electrical safety certificate  for the property where the fire took place,
Before the policy  was taken out Mr S and his brothers had got outline planning 
approval for demolition of the property where  the fire took place.
It also said there were further misrepresentations made  at the renewal  of the policy  in 
September 2016:
One of the brothers  had been declared bankrupt in February 2016,
Housing benefits were  being reviewed for three of the properties covered under the 
policy.
Zurich believed the property where the fire took place had been unoccupied since 
May 2016.
It said had it known these  things it wouldnt have offered any cover at all. Therefore it said it 
was within  its rights to cancel the policy  from when it was taken out. 
Mr S and his brothers didnt think this was fair as they disputed  a number of the points Zurich 
had said they misrepresented. They  brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said he was satisfied that had Zurich known  all the information at the time the policy was 
Ref: DRN62874872taken out then it wouldnt have provided  cover. Further  he said under the Insurance Act 2015 
it is the responsibility of the insured to provide all information that may affect the policy and 
he didnt feel Mr S and his brothers had done this. 
Mr S and his brothers didnt agree and asked  for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has said that Mr S and his brothers misrepresented  their risk when they took out and 
renewed the policy. It says it wouldnt have offered any insurance  cover at all if they had 
disclosed all relevant  information. 
In order to determine this, I have considered  the relevant law. Although  Mr S and his 
brothers originally took out the policy in 2015, each renewal forms a new insurance contract. 
Therefore I have considered the most recent renewal before the claim was made in 
September 2016. This renewal is covered by the Insurance  Act 2015.
Under the Insurance Act 2015,  when  Mr S and his brothers renewed the policy, they had a 
duty to make  a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order  to fulfil a fair presentation 
of risk, the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought 
to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure  the 
risk and on what terms.
If we conclude that the policyholders didnt provide a fair presentation of risk
then we must go on to assess  whether the breach was a qualifying one. This means that if 
the insurer had known all the information, they would have acted differently. Either by
offering different policy terms  or by not offering a policy at all. The insurer  is only entitled  to
take further action  if it can show that a qualifying breach has occurred.
In this case Zurich has provided a list of numerous  things that Mr S and his brothers ought to 
have known they should have disclosed at inception and renewal of the policy.  It has also 
provided a statement from its underwriters to show that it wouldnt have provided cover  if it 
had all the correct  information. 
I can see from this information that if Zurich  had known  about the bankruptcy of one of the 
brothers, this alone would have meant it wouldnt have offered or renewed the policy. 
Whereas with the other information it says Mr S and his brothers misrepresented,  it says it 
wouldnt have offered the policy due to the combined risk. Rather than due to each individual  
misrepresentation. 
For this reason I have  started by considering whether Mr S and his brothers provided a fair 
presentation of the risk in relation to just the bankruptcy. As if I am satisfied  that they didnt, 
then that means  there has been a qualifying breach regardless of whether they made any 
further misrepresentations.
I can see that one of the brothers named on the policy, was made bankrupt  in 2016.  And this 
information wasnt provided to Zurich when  the policy was renewed  in September  of that 
Ref: DRN62874873year. So I need  to decide if Mr S and his brothers ought to have  known they should disclose 
this to Zurich at the renewal in September 2016.
To do this I have considered the information  provided at renewal. Zurich  provided a 
statement of fact, at the top of this document it stated:
You must take reasonable care at inception,  renewal  and variation  of your policy to ensure 
that you accurately  answer any questions which we ask of you and that any information  you 
give us is accurate. If this policy is for purposes which are mainly related  to your trade, 
business or profession, you also have a duty to tell us about all facts  which  are material  to 
our decision  to provide  you with insurance. A material fact is one which  would influence  the 
acceptance or assessment of the risk.
Please check that all of the information recorded in this document  is correct.  If there  are any 
inaccuracies please inform us immediately.
Further down it says:
No owner, director, business partner or family  member involved with the business:
has ever been the subject  of a winding-up order or company/individual  voluntary Agree
arrangement with creditors; or been placed into administration, administrative
receivership or liquidation.- Agree
While the question doesnt ask specifically about being declared  bankrupt, I think  this would 
have made  it clear to Mr S and his brothers  that Zurich takes the financial history of those  
involved in the business into account when considering the risk. So I think  they ought to 
have known that this meant the bankruptcy of one of the policy holders would have 
influenced Zurichs judgement on their risk.
Mr S has said that it was him who took out and renewed the policy on behalf of all four 
brothers. And his brother  hadnt told him that he had been declared bankrupt earlier  in the 
year, so he hadnt  known he wasnt disclosing this. When  a policy  is taken out in joint 
names, it is the responsibility  of all those listed on the policy  to ensure the information 
provided is a fair presentation of risk. So, although  I dont dispute that Mr S wasnt  aware of 
the bankruptcy, it is the responsibility of all four named policyholders to ensure they have 
checked the information provided on the policy. And as his brother who was declared  
bankrupt is listed as a policyholder, he had the shared responsibility to ensure they provided 
a fair presentation of the risk. And as he would have known about it, and as this information 
wasnt provided, I agree the policyholders didnt provide a fair presentation of the risk.
Ive already said that Zurich has provided information to show it wouldnt have offered a 
policy if it had known  about the Bankruptcy.  So Im satisfied that there  has been a qualifying  
misrepresentation. 
Under the Insurance Act, where theres  been  a qualifying  misrepresentation, Zurich can 
avoid the policy and refuse  any claims.  Zurich has already  returned  the policy premiums to 
Mr S and his brothers, so Im satisfied its provided a suitable remedy  in line with its 
requirements under the act.
As Im satisfied that not declaring the bankruptcy amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation 
by itself, I havent considered whether Mr S and his brothers  misrepresented  any other  
information, as this would have no impact  on the action Zurich can take under the act.
Ref: DRN62874874For these reasons I think Zurich has acted  fairly  by avoiding the policy. So I wont ask it to do 
anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Ive dont require  Zurich Insurance PLC to do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, Mr S, Mr S 
and Mr S to accept or reject my decision  before 17 March 2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6287487