K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to help when they 
called from abroad  following a serious  medical emergency. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 May 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what I thought  Nationwide should do to resolve  it. I invited both parties to send any additional  
evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Mrs M responded on 19 May 2019 and provided further comments on why she feels  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs M says Nationwide should have done more to help. There 
was more than enough money in the various accounts they hold to cover  the payment. 
Mrs M also says Nationwide didnt  do enough to help when Mr M called  customer services 
and that its actions led to a delay of 18 hours before  treatment was approved.
Mrs M has given  some  additional information about  the impact  of what  happened  on her 
mental health. Shes told us it led to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) which continues 
to severely impact her life today. 
Nationwide responded on 10 June 2019  to say it doesnt accept  my provisional  decision. 
Nationwide said the delay in treatment was caused  by the insurer and that there  was lack of 
funds in accessible accounts. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms given  me a very clear explanation of how the issues  raised  impacted  her treatment 
and subsequent mental health. I want to assure  Mrs M that Ive thought very carefully about 
what shes said and the fairest  way to resolve this complaint. I agree that the service 
provided by Nationwide wasnt good enough  and Im satisfied it could have done more  to 
help when Mr M called.  
As Ive set out in my provisional decision,  between Mr Ms credit  card,  his sole account and 
Mr and Mrs Ms joint account  there  was around £8,462 available. And Nationwides 
confirmed it should  have told Mr M about  the option  to release £500 as an emergency 
transfer from their savings account but didnt. Had it done so, I think  it would have been  
possible for Mr and Mrs M to have raised the necessary €10,000 sooner. My provisional 
decision sets out the detail of how that could have  been achieved  so I wont repeat it again. 
Mrs M says that there was more than enough  money in the accounts  they hold with 
Nationwide. But the majority of Mr and Mrs Ms money was held in accounts that cant  be 
accessed immediately.  I appreciate this was an emergency (so I think Nationwide should  
have told Mr M about the option to withdraw £500)  but its not possible to get instant access  
Ref: DRN68443572to those accounts so I havent found  Nationwide was wrong to say it couldnt release the 
money they needed from them. 
Ive thought about the impact the delay had on Mrs M and I take on board what shes told us 
about her mental  health. I can see that Mrs M went through a very traumatic experience  
which is why my provisional decision was that Nationwide should pay her £2,000  to reflect  
the seriousness of what happened.  Taking everything Mrs Ms said since  I issued my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that £2,000 fairly reflects  the impact of 
Nationwides service  and errors. 
In Nationwides  response to my provisional  decision it says there were a number of issues 
that caused a delay  in treatment. I note Nationwides comments but the issue  here is that 
Nationwide could have  done much more  to help when Mr M called on 13 July 2018. 
Nationwides response says its unclear why Mr and Mrs M didnt use the funds  they had in 
their joint account. But, when Mr M called there was no attempt by Nationwide  to explore 
their options  for withdrawing funds from their joint account. In addition,  the option  to withdraw 
an emergency £500 from their savings wasnt mentioned  either. Given the nature of Mr Ms 
call, Id expect  Nationwide to have considered all options for assistance so he could decide 
how best to proceed. My provisional decision explains why I think Mr M could  have obtained 
enough money to cover  the €10,000  required but thats not something Nationwide  explored 
of discussed.  
Ive considered everything that Mr and Mrs M and Nationwide  have said in response to my 
provisional decision. Having done  so I still think this complaint should be upheld and that 
£2,000 fairly  reflects the impact of Nationwides  errors. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £2,000 less any 
compensation already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68443573Copy Provisional  Decision  dated  16 May 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building  Society didnt do enough to help when  they called  
from abroad following  a serious medical emergency.
background
On 13 July 2018 Mr M called Nationwide from abroad because Mrs M had experienced a heart 
attack. Mr M explained that the hospital needed  €10,000 before it would start 
Mrs Ms treatment. But Nationwide explained that it couldnt  transfer the money they needed from 
savings because those  types of accounts dont  allow telephone transfers.
Mrs Ms insurer subsequently approved the medical treatment, and she returned to the UK a short  
time later. Mr and Mrs M complained about how theyd been treated,  and the knock on effect  this 
had had on Mrs Ms health, but Nationwide  didnt agree it had made  a mistake  aside from failing to 
provide details of a £500 emergency transfer it couldve provided. Nationwide paid Mr and Mrs M 
compensation of £150.
Mr and Mrs M asked  us to look at what had happened and their case was given to an adjudicator. 
The adjudicator thought Nationwide shouldve  done more  to help Mr M when  he called to talk about 
his wifes  condition. The adjudicator accepted Nationwide couldnt  transfer money from Mr and Mrs 
Ms savings but thought there  were  other options. The adjudicator said that Nationwide shouldve 
discussed options like using the money held in their current  accounts or making a part payment with 
Mr Ms credit card. The adjudicator thought there were options available that wouldve  given them  
enough money to proceed with the emergency treatment, and upheld the complaint.  The adjudicator 
recommended Nationwide pay £3,000 in compensation.
Nationwide didnt accept.  It says it was correct to say it couldnt transfer  money  from 
Mr and Mrs Ms savings over the phone. It also said that it isnt possible to make more than one 
emergency transfer in a day.
Nationwide asked to appeal the adjudicators  view so the complaints been  passed to me to
make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief above as the circumstances  of this complaint arent  in debate.  All sides 
broadly agree that Mr M called Nationwide on 13 July 2018 and asked about transferring €10,000 to 
a hospital abroad. For me, this complaint revolves  around the call
Mr M had with Nationwide and the information it provided.
Ive listened to the call a number of times and the first thing  that strikes me is the low quality of 
reception. There are parts of the call Ive been unable  to understand despite  going over them  
numerous times. And I dont think  the call handler was any clearer about  what  Mr M was saying 
either. Im surprised that the call handler didnt ask Mr M more  questions  or to clarify his request.  I 
thought the call handler couldve done a lot more in the obviously difficult  circumstances to see 
whether there was anything Nationwide could do to help. Thats one of the reasons  Im supporting 
the adjudicators  decision to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN68443574I did hear Mr M say he needed to transfer €10,000 to the hospital when he first explained the 
situation. But he then appears to say he wanted to transfer the money in the joint account  to the flexi 
account so he could pay that way. Nationwides told us that at the time of the call Mr and Mrs Ms 
joint account  had £2,082 available and that Mr Ms sole account had £4,058 in it.
I understand  thats not enough to cover the full €10,000, but Mr M also had a credit card with a limit 
of £2,500 with him. The statements Ive seen show there was around £178
outstanding when Mr M called on 13 July 2018 - which  meant he had about £2,322 available  to 
spend.
Combining the above  three  accounts, Mr and Mrs M wouldve had £8,462 available.
Nationwides told us it shouldve offered Mr M the option  of an emergency transfer of £500
from his savings  account.  Adding that to the above  figure  wouldve given Mr and Mrs M
£8,962. The adjudicators  told us that the exchange rate on 13 July 2018 was about 1.11 to the 
Pound which  wouldve meant  Mr and Mrs M had roughly €9,950 at their disposal - which couldve 
been paid by debit card.  Again, I appreciate  thats not quite €10,000, but Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve been  able themselves (perhaps  in cash  their own or borrowed) to raise the final €50 to 
reach that level.
I also think its reasonable  to point out that Mr M was calling Nationwide in desperate need of help. 
Nationwide provides  Mr and Mrs M with their banking facilities so I think  it was reasonable for them  
to have expected it to offer as much help as possible given the circumstances of the call. So while I 
agree that Nationwide couldnt do a transfer of €10,000 from their savings on 13 July 2018  when Mr 
M called, I think it couldve done more to tell him there  were other options available.
The adjudicator asked Nationwide to increase the award to £3,000, reflecting  the seriousness  of 
whats happened. Mrs M says her health is worse as a result of the delay between  Mr Ms call 
with Nationwide and her insurer  authorising  treatment. Shes also provided evidence of mental 
health issues that have come about since her heart attack. It was clearly a very distressing and 
traumatic experience  and I can see how the wait for
emergency treatment to be approved wouldve  been  very difficult.
Ive thought carefully about  whether the £3,000  the adjudicators asked Nationwide to pay is
fair. The basis  of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that the delay of around 12 hours between speaking 
to Nationwide  and their insurer  approving  the procedure  has led to serious health implications for 
Mrs M, including mental health  issues.  Ive looked at the medical evidence Mrs M has sent us to 
see what is says about the delay.
Whilst I can see Mrs M was very ill and had suffered  a serious heart attack,  I havent seen 
evidence to show the specific impact of the delay,  or that it specifically made her condition  worse.
Mrs M has provided evidence that she now suffers from mental health conditions connected to her 
heart attack, but it doesnt  say anything about the delay  between the call and procedure. Mrs M has 
sent in an email showing she was sent information about  Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)  
but that isnt a diagnosis. I dont wish to distress Mrs M any further,  given how difficult  this situation 
has already  been, but I havent  seen evidence  that shows  Nationwides actions and the subsequent 
delay made  the impact  of the heart attack  on her health  worse.
That doesnt mean I think  Nationwides actions were reasonable. As Ive explained  above, I
think the service  received  was poor and it couldve  done a lot more to help Mr and Mrs M in the 
circumstances. The investigator asked Nationwide to pay £3,000 but I dont think that figures fair 
based on what Ive seen. Yes, the impact on them was significant at the time, but this was amongst a 
whole other  set of circumstances  that Nationwide  wasnt responsible for.
Ref: DRN68443575As a result,  I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  and ask Nationwide  to pay them a total of 
£2,000 in compensation  for its poor service. From the evidence available, I think  this fairly and 
proportionately reflects  the additional stress  and anxiety caused  to them following  their call to 
Nationwide on 13 July 2018.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £2,000 less any compensation  already 
paid.
Mr and Mrs M and Nationwide Building Society have until 16 June 2019 to send me anything further 
theyd like me to consider  before I make my final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6844357