K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  HSBC  Bank Plc wont refund the premiums she paid for her card protection  
policy.
background
Ms A complained shed been mis-sold a card protection policy.  She was told shed missed 
the date for claiming under the redress scheme  thatd been  set up for policies such  as hers.  
She therefore brought her complaint  to this service.
An investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Ms A didnt agree. The complaint 
has therefore been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
In 2013, the financial services  regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),  agreed  a 
redress scheme to compensate consumers, like Ms A, with card protection policies.
Broadly, the redress  scheme required businesses like HSBC  to return  premiums paid on or 
after 14 January  2005 to consumers who made  a claim under the scheme before a certain 
date. The redress scheme was approved by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by the scheme. Im satisfied Ms As card protection  
policy was sold in October 2007 and was fully covered  by the scheme.
This means  that rather  than decide  whats fair and reasonable, I can only look at whether the 
redress scheme rules were followed and whether Ms A has received  what she was entitled 
to under those  rules.
The redress  scheme  rules say Claim Forms  must  be received by the Scheme 
Administrators on or before the Bar Date.  If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the 
Claim Form will be rejected and the Scheme  Creditor [Ms A in this case] shall have no right 
to Redress.
So claims had to be made by the bar date which was 30 August 2014. Although there  was a 
later bar date of 28 February 2015  if one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the rules 
applied.
The redress  scheme  has provided its records for Ms A. They show  a vote form was sent to 
her on 8 November 2013  and a claim form on 11 February 2014.  But a completed  claim form 
wasnt received and Ms A didnt contact the redress scheme before the relevant bar dates. I 
also cant see that Ms A contacted HSBC before the bar dates.
It may be that Ms A didnt  receive this documentation. It seems it was sent to an old address  
which was still the address  the policy administrator held. The redress scheme rules simply 
say Any notice  given under the Scheme  by the Scheme Administrators to any person shall 
be sufficiently served  by posting  the same by first class (or equivalent) or airmail post to or 
leaving the same at the address of such person last known  to [the policy  administrator].
Ref: DRN62026832There wasnt a requirement  for the documentation to be received. And in fact, the rules 
explicitly say The Bar Date will apply to all Scheme  Creditors irrespective of whether or not 
they receive actual  written  notice of the Scheme.
Having looked  at what happened  here, Im satisfied the redress  scheme rules were followed.  
I understand Ms A is frustrated. But the redress scheme rules  dont allow  for an exception to 
be made. And as set out above, Im required to follow  those rules  when  deciding  her 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  by 7 September 2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6202683