K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited wont  deal with their home  
insurance claim for water damage and damaged drains at their property. 
background
In Jun 2018 Mrs F noticed that her kitchen tiling was lifting. She obtained advice from a 
surveyor friend and from the water  board. She had a drain company look at possible 
damage to the drains, but although they advised  there were  possible defects to the pipes 
they werent able to proceed any further because of a blockage  in the drains. They  advised 
that there  was a suspected leak. She registered  a claim  with esure in late August 2018. It 
arranged for a drain survey to be carried out by a drain company. They  found a blocked 
drain but it was a soft blockage which was cleared by jetting. 
Esure advised that it wouldnt be paying  a claim for accidental damage to pipes since its 
report said there was no such damage. It confirmed that it would consider the claim for 
damage caused by escape of water. It installed drying equipment.  After  two months of 
drying, the property  had dried to its condition  before  the drying  took place but this didnt dry 
the property to an acceptable  level. This in esures view indicated  that the cause of any 
damage to the property  wasnt  water leaking from the drains but rather  its inherent 
dampness probably due to a lack of a damp  proof course.
Mr and Mrs F objected  to this and said that esure  should pay for further investigations;  in 
particular they believed they were  assured by the loss adjuster who came  out that the 
kitchen would need to be replaced. They were advised that they were free to obtain their 
own report but esure wouldnt progress the claim further. Mr and Mrs F said theyd been 
advised that esure hadnt dried  out the property in accordance with industry guidance.
On review by this service  our investigator  thought that esure  had acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  and then obtained  a report from a firm of surveyors. In essence 
that concluded that the drain  report obtained by Mr and Mrs F correctly  identified detects 
with the drains  and that there probably  was an escape of water from the drains. They  
advised that it was possible  that the water  had affected the kitchen area but there would  
need to be further investigations, They said that an independent drain  company should   
carry this out and that a damp  survey  should  also be carried  out by a specialist company.
Having considered the report esure said it was prepared to instruct  an alternative drain 
supplier to reinspect  the drain in question,  and provide an independent opinion on what 
defects were present  and if water couldve escaped as alleged.  Additionally,  it would also 
ask its loss adjusters  to instruct  a surveyor to reassess the damage  to the basement,  in a 
further attempt  to differentiate between any potential escape of water damage,  and the 
ongoing damp present.
Our investigator put esures view to Mr and Mrs F. They didnt feel that any further 
investigations were  necessary  by esure  and that the offer was ambiguous.  They felt that 
esure now had all the information  necessary and doubted that a further investigation after 
such a length  of time (now 20 months) later would be of any use.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
Ref: DRN60209822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed Mr and Mrs F's complaint. I must point out that we act as an 
alternative dispute resolution  service. Our function  is to resolve complaints informally. I 
interpret that in this case  as looking  at what needs  to be done  from now to pursue  the claim 
for an escape of water  and/or  possible  accidental  breakage of the pipes. To that end Im not 
going to analyse each  and every point of complaint or go back  in detail over the history of 
the matter.
Mr and Mrs F registered their claim with esure in August 2018. It proceeded to have  a drain 
survey carried  out. The drain company reported back that there were no defects with the 
pipes and cleared a blockage in the pipes.  The company appointed by esure to dry out the 
property brought  back the level of dryness to its pre-existing conditions but after two months  
of drying it couldnt  make  the property any drier.  It said that was likely to be a problem with 
existing dampness,  particularly  the lack of a damp  proof course below the kitchen slab.
I dont see anything wrong with those conclusions.  esure isnt obliged  to carry on drying  the 
property or to remedy damp problems outside the terms  of the policy.
Nevertheless Mr and Mrs F now have a report from a surveyor. That surveyor criticised  the 
survey by esures drain company and said that they preferred the conclusions of the 
company appointed by Mr and Mrs F. This is despite the fact that that company couldnt 
conclude its survey because of a blockage in the pipes. Those conclusions were  that there 
were probably displaced joints leading to a water leak.
I would summarise their main conclusions as:
1. Any leaks  from the drains, which they believe will have occurred through the displaced 
joints, would  simply discharge  to ground below the patio. 
2. Notwithstanding this, the damp  reading  nearest the drain was very high compared to the 
others. As the ground is likely to be clay, water may have  travelled across its surface. It may 
penetrate through the outer wall into the kitchen slab,  however, if it did, it would probably 
cause damage at the back  of the kitchen  and not the front (where the cracked tile was). 
3.. The escape  of water/damage  to the drains is a distance of approximately  4-5m away  from 
the main damage  within the kitchen itself but may have  resulted in water standing  on the 
clay. 
4. The cause of the damage to the kitchen could only be confirmed by making a hole through 
the kitchen floor and this would be quite disruptive. 
5. If there is no damp proof course  at the rear of the property, damp penetration is likely to 
be an ongoing issue. 
6. They  noted  that the floor had been dried out by a specialist company and this had 
apparently taken the levels to pre-existing conditions.  They  pointed  out that damp conditions 
were likely to return  if there were inherent  defects, eg no damp  proof membrane below the 
slab. 
Ref: DRN60209823The surveyors recommended the following action:
1. A further drain CCTV survey
2. A trial pit be undertaken on the kitchen  floor
3. A report be carried out by a damp  specialist.
In response esure has said it would  be willing  to appoint another drain company to carry out 
the survey and to instruct a surveyor  to reassess the damage to the basement, in a further 
attempt to differentiate  between  any potential  escape of water damage,  and the ongoing 
damp present.
Mr and Mrs F would  just like esure to get on with dealing with their claim  they want  a cash 
settlement so their kitchen  and flooring can be replaced. Unfortunately  I dont see that their 
survey report  satisfactorily concludes that if there  was an escape  of water from any defects 
in the pipes that it caused the damage in the kitchen. It surmises that any water  would likely 
have discharged to the ground but possibly could have travelled along  the clay soil to the 
kitchen. Even then the damage would have  been  likely to be at the back  of the kitchen not at 
the front where the cracked and lifting tiles are. It also suggests  that the lack of a damp proof  
course may well be an issue.
I fully understand  the difficulty of carrying out further investigations so long after the event 
but if there  are defects  in the pipe there  could  be a continuing leak. I cant  on the evidence  
supplied by both sides require esure  to deal with the claim there are when it hasnt been 
shown that the main  damage, to the kitchen, was caused by an escape of water.
esure has offered  to carry out the drain survey  recommended  and to appoint a surveyor  to 
look at the damp/ escape of water issues and its always said it was willing to consider any 
reports obtained by Mr and Mrs F. I dont think that any further direction is needed by me. If 
Mr and Mrs F would  prefer  to get their own reports that's fine for them to do so though they 
should be aware that if they dont come  out in their favour then esure would be unlikely to 
pay the cost. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6020982