K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them  two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 15 January 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
these two policies  had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
15 February 2019. But neither party sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before  that I dont think  either policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  about Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64748712COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold  them  two mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997, and then replaced it with a new policy  
when they replaced their mortgage in 2002. Mr and Mrs W paid for each policy with a regular monthly  
premium, which didnt  attract  interest. The 1997 policy covered them for unemployment, whereas the 
2002 policy covered them for accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis of Mr W having  a pre-existing  medical condition. 
Yorkshire disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  not least as for the first policy, Mr and Mrs W were  
only paying for unemployment cover and so it said medical conditions werent relevant. So the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think that either of these policies were mis-sold. Ill go through 
my reasoning.
The 1997 mortgage application had a section for PPI. It explained that it was something the business  
offered and what it was for. There was a box that could  be ticked  if Mr and Mrs W were interested  and 
wanted an application form. The box was ticked,  and next to it was written that Mr and Mrs W were  
just getting a quotation at that point. Sometime later, Mr and Mrs W submitted an application  
specifically for PPI, separately to applying for the mortgage, where they chose exactly what kind of 
cover they wanted and signed for it. The mortgage  offer confirmed Mr and Mrs Ws choice,  and set 
out the cost of the PPI as a distinct cost from the mortgage  itself. And I can see that a number of 
months after the PPI started, Mr and Mrs W wrote to Yorkshire to make an adjustment to the policy, 
so it looks  like they knew  theyd taken it out.
The 2002 mortgage application also had a part for PPI. It explained what  the policy  was for, and had 
two options to choose from: one to get more  information about  Yorkshires policy and one to turn it 
down. At that stage, neither  option  was chosen. Then I can see Yorkshire produced a quotation for 
Mr and Mrs W, showing  how much PPI would cost and how much cover it would give if they chose to 
take it out. Mr and Mrs W again submitted a separate application for PPI, where they chose the level 
of cover they wanted and signed for it. The mortgage offer confirmed their choice, along  with the cost 
and level of cover.
So taking everything into account,  I think that Yorkshire made Mr and Mrs W aware they had a choice 
about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it on both occasions.
Yorkshire recommended the policies to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check  they were right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  they were.
Ref: DRN64748713The policies did exclude claims resulting from pre-existing medical conditions, and Mr W did have a 
condition at both points of sale. However, this wasnt relevant to the first sale,  as Mr and Mrs W were 
only paying for unemployment cover anyway. It was relevant to the second policy, though, and I have  
thought carefully about Mr Ws condition.
From what Mr and Mrs Ws representative has told us, Mr W had had the condition for a long time and 
it had never  caused him to need time off. The only effect on his day-to-day  life that they said it had 
was that he took regular medication. I also note that when Mr and Mrs W applied for PPI in 1997,  they 
signed a statement  saying they considered themselves  to be in good health  and not suffering any 
disabilities or serious illnesses.  And in the 2002 sale they similarly signed  a statement to say they 
understood that any medical condition  they were currently getting treatment for wasnt covered. So 
taking everything into account,  it doesnt  look like Mr Ws condition was likely  to cause him to take 
significant time of work,  nor that Mr and Mrs W considered it likely  theyd need to claim for it. So 
I dont think it made the recommendation  unsuitable. Overall, it doesnt look like Mr and Mrs W were 
significantly affected  by any of the policies main exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs W had other insurance policies, but they covered different things to what  the PPI did, so 
there wouldnt have been an overlap. Mr and Mrs W also said they had some good sick pay and 
redundancy pay, though they couldnt remember how much and werent able to give any details or 
evidence. The PPI paid out on top of their work  benefits,  and covered  them  for up to a year in any one 
claim, which is mostly likely  to have been significantly more  comprehensive  cover than their work 
benefits wouldve given  them. Its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs W fell on difficult  times and 
got behind on their mortgage payments, they risked losing their home. So I think the PPI could most  
likely have been useful  for them in protecting their home.
It looks like the cost of the policy was shown  to Mr and Mrs W before they bought each PPI policy. So 
I think  they wouldve understood how much they would  need to pay for it. It also looks like the PPI 
wouldve been  affordable  for them.
Lastly, its possible that Yorkshire couldve  better explained the main things the policy wouldnt cover. 
But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs W dont appear to have  been significantly affected by any of 
those things. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Please could  Mr and Mrs W and Yorkshire  send me any more information or comments  to look at by 
15 February 2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6474871