K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs T says Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr T has said she agrees with the 
outcome and has given us further  detail of why she feels the PPI was mis-sold. Ive carefully 
considered everything  and see no reason  to change my provisional  decision.
what the business need  to do
FICL should put Mrs T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mrs T would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs T owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  her.
B. FICL should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mrs T would  have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when FICL works  out what Mrs T would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs T 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs T paid.  And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs T would 
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL  should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs T a 
certificate showing  how much tax FICL have  taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Ref: DRN68978182Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68978183Copy of provisional  decision 
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep  things simple, 
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy Mrs T took out in 1997.  It was sold to her in store.
In our most recent view our adjudicator  didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs T disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
I intend  to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint, Ill explain why.
FICL had to give Mrs T information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so she 
could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
The policy wouldnt cover  any disability resulting from any sickness,  disease condition or injury which  
you knew about or should  have known  about  or for which you received advice, treatment  or 
counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date of the policy. I havent seen 
sufficient evidence  to show that this exclusion wouldve been  discussed during the sale or adequately 
drawn to her attention.
Mrs T had a medical condition at the time the policy  was sold. She says she was on medication for 
this condition at the time and was having regular  reviews  with her GP. So I think  the most  likely cause 
of any future  need for her to claim on the policy wouldnt be covered   significantly reducing the 
usefulness of the policy  for her.
Mrs T has said her condition was well managed at the time and she hadnt taken any time off work for 
it. But this condition was one that needed  monitoring  and medication to keep it under  control, as 
ultimately it could have  led to serious  illness. So regardless of whether  it was under control  at the time 
of sale,  I think  the restriction regarding  pre-existing medical conditions wouldve mattered  to her. And 
if FICL had made  it clear she wouldnt be covered for any disability arising from her existing  condition, 
I dont think shed have  bought the PPI. So I currently think this PPI policy  has been mis-sold.
fair compensation
FICL should put Mrs T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much Mrs T would have owed when she closed  her store  card account if 
the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  premiums. It 
should also remove  any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges.
Ref: DRN68978184FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs T owed when she closed her account  and 
what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes her.
B. FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what Mrs T would have owed when she 
closed her account  from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C. If  when FICL works out what Mrs T would  have owed each month without PPI  Mrs T paid more 
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs T paid. And it 
should carry on paying  interest until the point when  Mrs T would have owed FICL  something on her 
store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL  should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs T a 
certificate showing  how much tax FICL have  taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I intend to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.
I now invite  Mrs T and Financial Insurance Company Limited to give me any further information  they 
want me to consider before I make my final decision. This must be provided to us by 30 May 2019.
Ref: DRN6897818