K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form for the credit card. I can see its the type 
of application  that would  have been completed at a branch. So I think  Mrs C applied for the 
credit card and was sold the PPI during a meeting at a branch.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Mrs C in 1999.  I can 
see the application form contains  a section about PPI. I note a box has been  marked with a 
cross to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details  of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. So I think the form was probably  
completed during  a discussion, then printed and passed to Mrs C to check  and sign.  I think 
its likely  the PPI was discussed and accepted by Mrs C during  this conversation. 
The PPI premiums would have appeared on Mrs Cs monthly statements. If Mrs C had not 
agreed to the PPI, or didnt  want  it, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But 
Ive not see any evidence that she did so.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. 
Mrs C has told us shed receive  full sick pay from her employer for up to six months  followed  
by half pay for a further six months.  But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mrs C couldnt work.  And the benefit  would be paid in addition  to any sick pay. So I 
still think Mrs C would  find the policy useful  if she became unwell, particularly if she was 
unable to work for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mrs C had lost her job. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs C off taking 
out the cover. 
Ref: DRN64625542In summary,  I think Mrs C was most likely  made aware the policy  was optional  and she 
chose to add it to her account. I think the policy was right for her. And even if Halifax gave 
her all the clear information it should have, I think Mrs C would still have bought the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6462554