K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about a credit card debt with Vanquis Bank Limited.  He says Vanquis didnt 
send him statements to show the spending  on the account so he could settle the account  or 
reach an agreement  about repaying it. As a result, Mr M has paid additional interest on the
outstanding balance.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 November 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Mr M and Vanquis both confirmed theyd  received  the provisional decision but neither party 
provided any further information for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61925862copy provisional decision dated 5 November 2018
complaint
Mr M complains about  a credit card debt with Vanquis. He says Vanquis didnt send him statements  
to show  the spending on the account so he could  settle the account or reach  an agreement  about  
repaying it. As a result,  Mr M has paid additional interest on the outstanding  balance.
background
When Mr Ms wife passed away he received a letter from Vanquis  about an outstanding  credit card 
debt in his name which he says he had no knowledge of. Mr M contacted  Vanquis about this. After 
some discussion, which included  Vanquis providing  a recording of a call it had with Mr M during the 
account opening process where he confirmed the application  was genuine, Mr M accepted the 
account was his.
Mr M accepted  he had opened the account  but said that the account had been solely used by his wife 
and he had no idea of the outstanding balance. So he says he asked Vanquis to provide copies  of the 
statements so he could decide how best to deal with it. But he says that when he asked for copies of 
statements Vanquis  refused as he didnt answer  its security  questions  correctly.
Mr M referred  his complaint to this service  and one of our investigators looked into whatd happened. 
She said that Vanquis shouldve sent Mr M statements sooner as there wasnt any evidence  that Mr 
M had failed  Vanquis security questions. And that had it done so; she thought Mr M wouldve  repaid 
the debt when  he received  those statements. So she recommended that Vanquis should give Mr M a 
refund of interest and charges from the date of his original request for the statements. The 
investigator also initially asked  Vanquis to agree  an interest free repayment plan for Mr M to repay  the 
debt and pay £150 in respect of how itd handled things.
Vanquis didnt agree.  It says theres no record of Mr M asking for account  statements and that if he 
had failed security it wouldnt have been able to send him statements.
And Mr M subsequently  told us that hes repaid the debt. The investigator also reduced the 
compensation she was recommending from £150 to £100. But as Vanquis didnt agree the case  has 
been passed  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances under which Mr M has brought  his 
complaint. I can understand how upsetting it mustve  been to have to deal with this situation shortly 
after Mrs M passed away.
Mr M has told us he doesnt  want to pursue  the circumstances  of how the account was opened  as 
part of this complaint. Hes now satisfied that the card is in his name and hes liable for the spending 
on the account. So Ive focused on whether Vanquis unfairly delayed sending  out statements.
But looking  at whats happened, Im unable to agree with the recommendations the investigator made 
to resolve what happened. Ive carefully  considered  everything Mr M has said but Im not persuaded  
that Vanquis has made an error.  Ill explain why.
Mr M hasnt told us exactly when the call was made. So Ive looked at Vanquis contact records from 
March 2018 onwards.  But having  done  so, theres nothing to show Mr M called and asked for 
statements to be sent to him.
Ref: DRN61925863But I accept that Mr M most  likely did contact  Vanquis and I think  its possible  that because Mr M 
failed security Vanquis didnt make a specific note when he called. But, even if I were able to find 
evidence to show thats what happened, that doesnt mean Vanquis made a mistake.
I wouldnt expect a business  to do anything on an account if a customer failed the security verification 
process when  they called. That includes sending statements. So Im satisfied that if Mr M failed to 
answer security  questions, as hes told us he did, Vanquis wouldnt have  sent him account 
statements. And thats what  I think most likely happened here. As a result, Im satisfied  Vanquis didnt  
unreasonably delay sending  account statements to Mr M. And it follows that I dont think  Vanquis is 
responsible for the interest  accrued on the account from the date Mr M became aware of the 
outstanding debt to when it was repaid.
I can see that there was some confusion around whether the account  had been closed or not. But this 
seems to stem from when  Mr M initially  told Vanquis he had no knowledge of the account and 
Vanquis was investigating the complaint as a potential fraud case. Vanquis seems to have told Mr M 
that if it found  the account had been opened fraudulently, it would be closed and he wouldnt be held 
liable for the debt. But as mentioned above, Mr M subsequently  accepted that he did open the 
account so I dont need  to make a finding on this issue.
I can also see that Mr M has since asked us whether Vanquis  shouldve agreed to give him a credit 
card. But I cant see that Mr M has raised  this issue with Vanquis. If Mr M wishes to pursue this point 
he will need to raise  a separate  complaint  with Vanquis in the first instance.
Overall, I dont think Vanquis made a mistake when dealing with Mr M and his credit card account so 
I dont intend asking it to take further action with this complaint now.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments received by 19 November 2018. But unless anything changes my 
mind, for the reasons  given above, my provisional  decision is that I dont intend to uphold  this 
complaint.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6192586