K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that when she visited a local branch of the Nationwide  Building Society 
(Nationwide) she was unable to withdraw  £7,500 on demand. She is also unhappy that 
promised call backs, after she raised  her complaint, never materialised. Further, when she 
was able to speak to someone about  her complaint,  they were rude.
background
Mrs A went  to a local branch of the Nationwide on Friday 21 September 2018. She wanted 
to withdraw £7,500 from her account  in order to give it to her friend.  Nationwide  advised her 
that they had insufficient funds at that time,  but that they could make arrangements for the 
money to be available the following  Tuesday the 25 September. Nationwide also advised 
that they could  electronically transfer  the money to her friend as an alternative,  but Mrs A 
declined that service. 
Mrs A then asked that £8,000 to be ready for collection  on Tuesday, which it was, but when 
she collected the money she felt she received a curt and cold service and wanted to know  if 
the bank teller had known  she had made  a complaint. Mrs A called Nationwide  to complain 
and said the supervisor she spoke to was dismissive and condescending. After her 
complaint had been logged she said she was told she would be contacted within  48 hours  
but was not. She said that as she had been unable  to give her friend the money, her friend 
had had to re-book flights at a cost of £200.  
Nationwide said of their policy  regarding large  cash withdrawals, (which was available on 
their website), that a formal request was needed  for large sums over £500 and that one clear 
working days notice  was required. That was for security reasons to avoid excessive  
amounts of cash being held in the branch.  Nationwide accepted  that Mrs A was probably  not 
aware of this policy but this was not something  they routinely made their customers  aware  
of, unless they made a specific enquiry. 
Nationwide confirmed they had called Mrs A on 28 September 2018 at 1.15pm
regarding her complaint,  but they had been  unable to make  contact  with her and so had 
written to her by post the same day providing their final response on the complaint.
Mrs A was unhappy with Nationwides response and so an investigator from this service  
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  Nationwide  had done anything  wrong.  As Mrs A 
disagreed with our investigators view the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
With regard to the requirement to give notice to withdraw large amounts of cash, I agree with 
our investigator that this is a policy decision for each  bank, and it is not something this 
service will or should interfere with. It is a matter for each  individual  bank to determine  how 
Ref: DRN69172542they run their business. What I do feel I can comment upon is whether the Nationwide made  
this policy  reasonably available to their customers.  As the withdrawal of large  amounts of 
cash is not a routine  daily banking activity, I dont think  it is reasonable to expect the 
Nationwide to specifically  bring that policy to Mrs As attention.  Had she asked prior to her 
visit I think it likely she would have been given that information. Making the policy  freely 
available and accessible  on the Nationwides website is in my view reasonable. I do not 
therefore find that Nationwide have acted  unfairly  in this respect.
Although Mrs A says her phone log shows no missed calls,  I have not been  provided with 
that log. Nationwide however, have  provided evidence that they did attempt to call Mrs A and 
so I am satisfied that they did try to contact her within  the 48 hours  they promised, and when 
they could make no contact it was then reasonable to provide a written  response the same 
day, avoiding  any further delay. So I dont  think that they have acted  unfairly in this respect 
either. 
The recorded telephone calls do not reveal that the advisors Mrs A spoke to were  rude or 
condescending. In fact the calls demonstrate that the Nationwide  staff were attempting to 
assist Mrs A and so I cannot  uphold her complaint in this regard.
Finally I do note that Mrs A feels  the branch staff were curt and cold when she collected  her 
money from the branch. I do not doubt Mrs A may have perceived matters that way, but I 
have no direct evidence  to show that was in fact the case. So I cannot say that Nationwide  
have acted unfairly. I do accept that Mrs As profile was updated with the fact that she made 
a complaint, and that would have been visible to staff at the branch.  There is no evidence 
that the staff were  aware  Mrs A had made  a complaint, but even if they were there is no 
evidence that such knowledge has adversely affected Mrs As dealings  with the Nationwide.
I know Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision but Im not satisfied that Nationwide  have 
treated her unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide  Building  
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6917254