K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) allowed a payment which he 
hadnt authorised  to debit his account.  To settle  matters hed like a refund or evidence  
that the transaction was made with his authority.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to partly  uphold Mr Js 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached a 
final decision. Mr J hasnt  replied to my provisional  decision. Halifax responded to say it had 
nothing to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Firstly,  Id like to apologise for the time it 
has taken this service to reach this point.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part in the sense that Bank  of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax has agreed  to reimburse Mr J £212.87 that debited his account in 
February 2018 since our services involvement.  Therefore,  to the extent  it has not already 
done so, I direct Bank of Scotland plc to reimburse Mr J £212.87.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62195602copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading  as Halifax) allowed a payment which  he hadnt 
authorised to debit his account.  To settle matters  hed like a refund or evidence that the transaction  
was made with his authority.
background
A payment for £212.87  was debited  from Mr Js account in February  2018. Mr J said he didnt 
recognise the transaction. So he asked Halifax  to refund him through  the chargeback scheme. 
Halifax refunded  the amount  in late February 2018. But it later re-debited  Mr Js account  in April 2018 
after the merchant  provided  information  to show that Mr Js transaction  was genuine.
When Mr J complained to Halifax it didnt uphold  his complaint. Halifax  said the merchant had 
provided information  to show Mr Js transaction was genuine. And the merchant also explained  that 
Mr J had set up a yearly continuous payment  authority (CPA) which  had been debiting his account  
since 2013.
Mr J wasnt  happy with Halifaxs response and he also said the information sent by Halifax wasnt 
clear. Our adjudicator considered Mr Js complaint and concluded that Halifax hadnt done anything  
wrong. Itd tried to recover the amount for Mr J but hadnt been  able to because  the merchant 
challenged it.
Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicators  view. He provided information to show hed cancelled his CPA 
with the merchant in March 2013. So he says Halifax should refund him all the amounts taken  by the 
merchant from 2014 onwards - because they were taken after hed terminated his contract.  So the 
payments were taken without his authority.
In light of this new information the adjudicator changed his opinion. He thought  Halifax should 
reimburse the payments since 2014 because Mr J was entitled to cancel his CPA by notifying his 
bank or by notifying  the merchant. In this case, Mr J had terminated his contract with the merchant in 
2013 so the merchant didnt  have authority to continue to make the withdrawals  from Mr Js account.
Halifax doesnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion.  It says its the merchant thats at fault here as it 
failed to refund Mr J when he terminated his contract. And Mr J didnt provide any evidence to show 
hed cancelled  his CPA with the merchant when the chargeback was completed  so the bank cant  
challenge this any further now. And its out of time to challenge the earlier transactions.
In response to this Mr J says he didnt alert Halifax to the yearly payments taken  between 2014 and 
2017 because he wasnt aware of them.
Since Mr Js original complaint to this service,  Halifax  has refunded the amount of £212.87 taken  in 
February 2018 as a gesture of goodwill. But it doesnt agree to refund the amounts  taken  between 
2014 and 2017.
Halifax also says that the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Js account  state that claims about 
disputed payments must be made within 13 months. So Halifax says it can only consider the 
disputed payment that was taken in February 2018. However, Mr J says he made  earlier complaints 
to Halifax and so he wants to challenge the payment taken in 2017.
Halifax has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN62195603Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but Im of the 
opinion that Halifax has treated him fairly, so Ill explain why.
Its not clear why the merchant has continued to take payment from Mr J since he terminated his 
contract with them in March 2013. And its not clear why the merchant has failed to refund him 
despite the merchant agreeing to do so. But this service cant look at how Mr J has been treated by 
the merchant.  I can and have looked  at whether or not Halifax has done anything wrong.
Mr Js complaint to Halifax was initially  only about  the transaction that was debited  from his account 
in February 2018 for £212.87.Halifax provided a temporary refund whilst it processed the 
chargeback as Id expect  it to. But under the chargeback  scheme theres  no guarantee of a 
customer getting their money back. Thats  because  the chargeback may be successfully defended  
by the merchant in line with the card scheme rules.
In this case, the merchant defended the chargeback and provided information  to Halifax that showed 
Mr J had a contract and that the transaction was genuine. Based  on this information, Halifax re-
debited Mr Js account. I wouldnt generally expect a bank to challenge information  provided by a 
merchant unless the bank  has reason to believe  the information is wrong.
Based on the information Ive seen Halifax wasnt aware  that Mr J had terminated his contract  
with the merchant when it processed  the chargeback.  And it was only after this service  became  
involved that Mr J provided a copy of his email  to the merchant in March 2013 asking for his 
contract to be terminated. By the time Halifax  became  aware of this it was too late for it to 
challenge the merchants defence. So based on the information Halifax  had at the time of the 
chargeback I cant fairly say Halifax did anything wrong.
Halifax has now agreed to refund the payment  that was taken in February  2018 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But in my opinion it wouldnt  be fair to hold Halifax responsible for the payments taken by the 
merchant between  2014  and 2017. So Ill explain  why.
The terms  and conditions applicable to Mr Js account provide that except for direct debit or 
payments made using an overdraft, we will not refund  the payment if you tell us more than 13 
months after it was made that the payment was not made properly or was unauthorise d. This 
provision is in line with the 13 month time limit for bringing  claims for unauthorised payments referred 
to under the Payment Services Regulations  (PSRs).
Because Halifaxs  terms and conditions are in line with the PSRs then Mr J is out of time to ask 
Halifax to refund him the amounts taken by the merchant  between 2014 and 2017.
I appreciate that Mr J says he wasnt aware that payments were taken  between 2014 and 2017 but Im 
satisfied that Mr J ought reasonably to have  been  aware  of these  as Ive seen statements  detailing the 
payments that were made to the merchant.  Its Mr Js responsibility to monitor his account.
And in terms of the payment taken in February 2017 I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mr J 
complained to Halifax  about this prior to him bringing his complaint to this service in April 2018.
A consumer  is entitled to cancel a CPA either with the merchant or with the bank.  If the cancellation 
is made through a customers bank  the bank (in this case Halifax) must act on those  instructions. In 
this case  Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr J asked Halifax to stop his payments  to the merchant 
and neither did he make  Halifax aware  that hed terminated  his contract with the merchant until early  
in April 2018.  Im of the opinion that Halifax had no way of knowing that Mr Js payments to the 
merchant shouldnt  be made.
I think the dispute here is between Mr J and the merchant who,  for whatever reason, has 
continued to take payments from Mr J despite him asking them to cancel his contract. I appreciate 
that it may be difficult  for Mr J to recover these  amounts  from the merchant but that doesnt mean 
Ref: DRN62195604that Halifax  has done anything  wrong or that Halifax  should refund the historic  payments between 
2014 and 2017.
Halifax accepts  that it might  have been able to do more to help Mr J  had it been  aware of the full 
position earlier on. So it might have been able to dispute the merchants view about the payment in 
February 2018. But it wasnt. So I dont intend to ask Halifax to do anything  more than reimburse Mr 
J for the payment in February 2018.
my provisional  decision
Unless anything changes my mind Im intending to partly  uphold this complaint  in the sense that all 
Halifax has to do is reimburse  the disputed transaction for £212.87  in February  2018, as it has done 
since this services involvement.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6219560