K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the sale of a property held in her self invested personal pension  
(SIPP) with Suffolk Life Pensions Limited  (Suffolk  Life).  Mrs B says Suffolk Life didnt 
provide her with the propertys valuation and as a result she agreed  to the sale of her share 
of the property without having complete information.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Bs complaint. She issued her view on 10 
September 2018. It included a summary  of what had happened.  Ive repeated that here.   
Mrs B and four former colleges had purchased, using their pension  funds  to do so, a 
commercial property. Mrs B had since taken a new job and intended  to sell her share of the 
property before transferring the value  of her SIPP to the scheme offered by her new 
employer.
Two of her former colleagues agreed to purchase  the additional share of the property. To 
help facilitate that a single  financial adviser  was hired, with the cost to be shared between all 
the parties. That adviser was appointed as adviser  of record on the pension  plan. In 
completing the form that Suffolk Life required Mrs B authorised Suffolk Life to:
release information  in respect of all their plans  to their nominated  adviser
accept investment instructions from the adviser  in respect of all of their plans
pay the charges  specified from their SIPP fund, to their adviser
And in the signed declaration the form said:
I accept that Suffolk Life will correspond with my adviser shown in section 2 unless I give 
written notice to the contrary.
I authorise Suffolk Life to accept investment and all other  instructions  in relation to any of the 
plans within  my SIPPs at Suffolk Life from the adviser shown in section 2, unless and until I 
inform Suffolk Life in writing to the contrary.
In order to re-organise the property holding Suffolk Life needed to get an updated valuation 
of the property. A surveyor  was engaged to do that. The surveyors report showed  the 
current valuation of the property as being  £210,000. That report was produced in July 2015  
and sent to Suffolk Life and Mrs Bs adviser  in the same month.
Ref: DRN61141952The report  was provided to Suffolk  Life and to Mrs Bs financial adviser on the same  email. 
Suffolk Life didnt provide  Mrs B with a copy.  
Each of the property  holders signed a form agreeing to the sale and purchase of the property 
and this was provided  to Suffolk Life. The figure  quoted on that form for the property value  
was over £500,000.  
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She agreed that Suffolk Life could have sent 
Mrs B a copy  of the property valuation but she didnt  think Suffolk  Life was obliged  to do that 
 Mrs B had authorised  Suffolk Life to correspond with her adviser. Suffolk Life knew  that 
Mrs B had an adviser and that the adviser had seen the valuation.  Suffolk Life would have 
reasonably thought the adviser  would relay all relevant information to Mrs B.  
The adjudicator also noted that the property reorganisations wasnt completed until May 
2016, some  six months after Mrs B had signed the transfer documentation.  So Mrs B had 
the opportunity  to check the valuation.  And there was nothing  to suggest she didnt get the 
correct value (albeit less than shed expected) for her share of the property  which shed 
instructed Suffolk  Life to sell. 
The adjudicator also said that Suffolk  Life did agree to a second  valuation and when that 
came back  at the same value Suffolk Life offered to reverse  the property reorganisation 
(although ultimately  that wasnt possible). Suffolk  Life did take a long time to complete its 
investigation into Mrs Bs complaint. But that was understandable in the circumstances and 
when so many parties were involved. 
In reply Mrs B said she thought Suffolk Life could have made more effort to make all 
members aware of the valuation. She recalled getting paperwork where Suffolk Life had 
confirmed her request  to be included in any correspondence after her employment had 
ended. Suffolk  Life should have sent her copies of all correspondence  including  any 
valuation as that was so important to her.
Suffolk Life said it didnt have anything to add. But it reiterated that the valuation  report  was 
sent to both the lead investor  and the financial adviser and it would  have expected that 
information to have been shared. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed. But, like the adjudicator, I dont think  the complaint should 
be upheld. I agree with the reasons the adjudicator gave. I dont have much to add. 
I dont disagree with Mrs B that if Suffolk  Life had sent her a copy  of the valuation  then any 
confusion or dispute  could  have  been avoided. And there then would  have been  no 
argument as to whether Mrs B would have  gone ahead or not. What  she decided  to do 
would have been based on a complete  understanding of the position and, importantly, an 
accurate valuation for the property and the knowledge that the value attributed to it in the 
statements wasnt a true reflection of the current market  price. 
But I cant say that there  was a lack of diligence or effort  on Suffolk Lifes part in not sending 
Mrs B a copy  of the valuation. The point is that Suffolk Life wasnt required to send Mrs B the 
Ref: DRN61141953valuation direct. Shed agreed  with Suffolk  Life how things would be progressed given that 
she had an adviser  in place. Suffolk  Life kept to that agreement. 
I dont see that I can say that Suffolk  Life failed to do something  and should be responsible 
for any consequences of that  when it hadnt  acted other than in accordance with its 
agreement with Mrs B and the other  parties  involved.
It follows that I dont think Mrs Bs complaint against Suffolk  Life (and Ive considered 
elsewhere the advisers part in the matter) should be upheld.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6114195