K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) didnt give him a 
hire car following a road traffic accident in April 2019. He also complains that LV have failed 
in the way they have progressed the motor  insurance claim. 
background
On 1 April 2019  Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident which led to his car being 
recovered. The following day Mr B reported  the accident to his motor  insurance company, 
LV. 
On the 5 April 2019,  unhappy with how his claim was being  handled,  Mr B complained to LV. 
He was unhappy that nothing had been done with regards to his car being  collected after it 
had been recovered. He was also unhappy  that he was being asked for witness details, 
when to his mind, LV ought to be asking the police.  
On the 8 April 2019,  one of LVs agents  spoke to Mr B and said that as he didnt take out 
guaranteed hire on his insurance cover, the hire company was under no obligation to give 
him a hire car. It explained that as the third-party   the other party involved in the accident  
hadnt accepted liability for the accident,  the hire company was under no obligation to give 
him a hire car. 
LV also explained that it was gathering information to help get an admission from the third-
partys insurance  and that it had spoken  to one of the witnesses who confirmed Mr Bs 
version of events. 
LV sent Mr B its final response on 9 April 2019. In it, LV explained that: 
Mr B didnt  take out additional cover for a guaranteed hire car if he is involved in an 
accident;
LV did ask the hire company to supply Mr B with a car, but it refused on the basis 
that it would  only do so if the third-party  admitted liability;
it is doing all it can to get the third party to admit liability, and to that end it has asked 
one of the witnesses to the accident to provide dash cam footage  they hold;
LV suggested Mr B speak to his solicitors  about  costs he was incurring for hiring  a 
car whilst  it processed  the insurance  claim. 
Unhappy with this answer, and how the claim continued to be handled  by LV, Mr B referred 
his complaint to this service. Amongst the points already covered here, Mr B said he wasnt  
at fault for the accident and that he was unhappy  with the delays LV had caused in 
approaching the witnesses,  getting their statements and dash cam footage. 
In its submissions to us, LV explained  that it was waiting for Mr B to give authorisation to the 
car finance company so that it could settle  any outstanding balance associated  with the car  
given it was a total loss.
Our investigator looked into this matter. And they concluded LVs conduct  in progressing  the 
claim was below the standards wed expect and to put things right she recommended  an 
award of £200.  
Ref: DRN63886232In response Mr B made  several points,  which are referenced in more  detail in my provisional 
decision, and which forms part of this final decision. LV also responded and said it agreed 
with the reason to uphold the complaint.  But it thought £200 was too high an amount to put 
things right. Our investigator then recommended  £150 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused Mr B. 
I then considered the matter. And in my provisional  decision of November 2020 explained 
why I was intending to reach a different outcome to that which our adjudicator reached  that 
is, that it shouldnt  be upheld.
My provisional decision goes into more detail, but the key points why I was intending to 
reach this decision  were:  
LV had done nothing wrong by not providing Mr B with a hire car given the type of 
cover he had opted for;
Even if LV had been more proactive in gathering  evidence from the police and/or eye 
witnesses to the accident it would likely  have  made no difference to Mr Bs claim 
being progressed  any quicker. I said that because  the third-party had disputed 
liability from the offset;
LV didnt  do anything wrong by primarily pursuing the dash cam footage more so 
than other pieces of evidence. So I didnt  think LV had caused avoidable delay to the 
progression of Mr Bs claim;
LV didnt  delay  the settlement of Mr Bs claim. Any delay was largely because of Mr B 
challenging what he felt was a low settlement  offer from LV.
I then gave both parties  an opportunity to make  further comment and submit  any more 
evidence before reaching my final decision.  In response, LV have said that they have  
nothing further  to add. Mr B has made  the following points: 
The crux of his complaint isnt about the hire car, but the way LV have communicated  
throughout the claim;
The claim was left at 50/50 until Mr Bs solicitor got everything  settled.  No attempt 
was made by LV to settle the claim and if it wasnt for his Solicitor  the claim would 
have remained at 50/50;
LV only asked for dashcam  footage  and ignored the police report.  The police report  
was only asked for by Mrs Bs solicitor;
The claim was only settled by the third-party insurer  accepting full liability once the 
police report was passed to it by Mr Bs solicitor. Mr B says LV ought to have done 
this much sooner  to resolve liability. 
As both parties have  now responded, I will now decide this matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, I still think  that 
Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld  - Ill explain why. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr B has said that disproportionate weight has been 
placed on the hire car element to his complaint, when the crux of it has been the way LV has 
communicated with him. 
Ref: DRN63886233Id like to assure Mr B that this isnt the case.  I did make a finding on the point of the hire car, 
especially as it was a point Mr B made when first bringing the complaint to this service. I 
appreciate that it likely became less relevant as the claim and nature of the complaint 
evolved concurrently whilst at this service. 
I also note that this point forms  the smallest part of the three sections I used in my 
provisional decision; that is car hire, progressing  the claim and settling the claim. 
Mr B says that the crux of his complaint is the way LV have communicated with him. Though  
this isnt something I explicitly set-out in my decision, it was something I thought about in 
relation to the complaint  points I addressed. And having done that, I havent seen anything 
that I think shows LV acted unfairly or unreasonably with the way it has communicated with 
Mr B. 
The subsequent points Mr B has made relate  to the liability issue.  As set-out  in my 
provisional decision, our investigator explained to Mr B that liability  is often an issue  best 
dealt with by the courts.  And that this isnt an element this service would consider as Mr B 
hadnt made a complaint about  this to LV. She added that if he wanted  this looked into, he 
would firstly need to complaint to LV about  it.
In deciding this complaint,  I agree  with our investigator said; and dont think LV have  had an 
opportunity to look into and answer  this distinct complaint. Having  said that, what Mr B has 
said about the police report is somewhat relevant to what Ive said about the timeliness of 
the claim being progressed. But Ive already said that I dont think  it was unreasonable  for LV 
to place more  weight on the dashcam footage. And I havent seen anything  that changes  my 
mind about  this.   
What Mr B says about the police report being the conclusive bit of evidence that settled 
liability is novel. I dont  of course know if that is the case without looking at the evidence and 
getting information from the third-party insurer about why it accepted liability. But to do that 
would mean  investigating the liability issue, which Ive already said is a distinct and therefore  
separate complaint to that which Ive considered here. 
So after re-considering  all the evidence and what both parties have said in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63886234my provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt give him a hire car 
following a road traffic accident  in April 2019. He also complains that LV have failed in the way they 
have progressed the motor insurance  claim. 
background
On 1 April 2019 Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident which led to his car being  recovered. The 
following day Mr B reported the accident to his motor insurance company, LV. 
On the 5 April 2019, unhappy with how his claim was being  handled,  Mr B complained to LV. He was 
unhappy that nothing  had been done with regards to his car being  collected  after it had been 
recovered. He was also unhappy that he was being asked for witness details, when  to his mind, LV 
ought to be asking the Police. 
On the 8 April 2019, one of LVs agents spoke to Mr B and said that as he didnt  take out guaranteed 
hire on his insurance cover,  the hire company was under no obligation  to give him a hire car. It 
Ref: DRN63886235explained that as the third-party  the other party involved in the accident  hadnt accepted  liability 
for the accident, the hire company was under no obligation to give him a hire car. 
LV also explained that it was gathering information to help get an admission  from the third-partys 
insurance  and that it had spoken to one of the witnesses who confirmed Mr Bs version of events. 
LV sent Mr B its final response on 9 April 2019, and in it, it explained  that: 
Mr B didnt take out additional cover  for a guaranteed hire car if he is involved  in an accident;
LV did ask the hire company to supply  Mr B with a car, but it refused on the basis that it would 
only do so if the third-party admitted liability;
it is doing  all it can to get the third party to admit  liability, and to that end it has asked one of 
the witnesses to the accident to provide dash  cam footage  they hold;
LV suggested Mr B speak to his solicitors about costs he was incurring for hiring a car whilst it 
processed the insurance claim. 
Unhappy with this answer, and how the claim  continued to be handled  by LV, Mr B referred his 
complaint to this service. Amongst the points already covered here, Mr B said he wasnt at fault for 
the accident and that he was unhappy with the delays  LV had caused in approaching the witnesses, 
getting their statements and dash cam footage. 
In its submissions to us, LV explained that it was waiting  for Mr B to give authorisation to the car 
finance company so that it could settle any outstanding balance associated with the car  given it was 
a total loss.
Our investigator then looked  into this matter.  LV told her in June 2019  that the claim had been  paid 
but the liability  was still in dispute. Later in August, she sent both LV and Mr B her opinion. In 
summary she said: 
the policy  Mr B opted for didnt include guaranteed car hire, so LV didnt have  to provide it;
LV should  have  progressed  the settlement  of the claim quicker than it did. Thats because LV 
should have used a different  means of communication  with Mr B, like an email or phone call, 
instead of an SMS text message. This would have ensured  he understood the importance of 
why his authorisation was needed to help LV settle the outstanding car loan with the finance 
provider; 
and had this happened, the loan outstanding on the car couldve been settled  sooner and Mr 
B would not have suffered any loss or distress and inconvenience related  to the settlement of 
the claim;
so our investigator concluded LVs conduct  in progressing the claim  was below the standards 
wed expect and to put things right she recommended  an award  of £200
In response Mr B made several points, in summary he said: 
LV said the car was deemed a total loss on 5 April 2019. But he had been informed by the 
police that it wasnt collected from recovery until 9 April 2019. And in that time no one came  to 
inspect it; 
he would have expected  LV to get the Police  report right at the beginning of it processing his 
claim to help ascertain what happened and who is liable. He says the Police are professionals  
and have  the requisite training and experience to determine who is at fault;  
that LV did not act in his best interests, as his solicitor informed him that LV attempted  to 
settle the liability  issue  on a 50/50  basis
LV also responded  and said it agreed with the reason to uphold the complaint.  But it thought  £200 
was too high an amount to put things right. 
Our Investigator explained  this to Mr B. She also said that liability  is an issue best dealt with by the 
courts  and that this isnt an element  this service  would consider as Mr B hadnt made a complaint  
Ref: DRN63886236about this to LV. She added that if he wanted this looked into, he would firstly  need to complaint to LV 
about it. 
Our investigator then recommended £150 as compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  this 
matter had caused  Mr B. 
Unhappy with this Mr B asked for his complaint to be decided by an Ombudsman. It follows  that this 
matter has been passed to me to decide.  
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done that, Im planning not to uphold this complaint. I 
know this will disappoint  Mr B, so Ill explain why. 
Car hire
Having looked at the policy schedule, I note the optional  extras youve chosen to add section has a 
cross next to where it says, Guaranteed hire car, to indicate  it wasnt  a feature of the cover. In his 
submissions Mr B has said he chose  not to take this optional additional  cover out so that he could  
save money. So by not giving Mr B a hire or courtesy car, I dont  think LV has acted  unfairly given 
what its terms of insurance say - and the type of cover Mr B chose to take out. 
I note that LV spoke to the hire car company to see if they would  accommodate  Mr Bs request to be 
given a hire car. But as liability hadnt been  admitted  by the third-party, they declined  to do so. The 
care hire company  would need to be satisfied that it would receive payment for it providing  a car. But 
given Mr Bs type of cover, and as liability hadnt been settled, it chose not to.  
In any case, this complaint is against LV, and Ive already  said it didnt do anything wrong.  And I dont 
think it could have done any more than what it did do. 
Progressing the claim
To my mind, the complaint  points Mr B makes  about the progression of his claim largely  point to LV 
not doing  things early enough to settle the liability issue. Specifically he says LV didnt contact the 
police for its report - nor did it get statements  of all the eye witnesses - soon enough.  
Im acutely conscious here of not answering a complaint point that hasnt been made  to LV that of 
who is liable and at fault for the road traffic accident. But even if I were to find that LV should have 
been more proactive  in gathering evidence  off the Police and eye witnesses, I dont think  it would 
have made  much difference to the progression of Mr Bs insurance claim or settling the liability  issue. I 
say that because the third-party disputed liability, and that issue,  in of itself, has taken  some  time to 
resolve between all the parties. That isnt uncommon when liability in these circumstances  isnt 
admitted and is contested.   
There is an argument to be had that this information may have proved  crucial in obtaining an 
admission of liability very early on. But its clear  from the third partys position  on this from the offset,  
and how long the liability issue has taken to resolve, that that wouldnt have been the case  nor has 
it. 
Mr B has said that LV pursued the dash cam footage more than other pieces of evidence,  like witness 
statements and the police report. But given how conclusive and irrefutable video  footage can often be, 
I can see why it acted  in this way. 
So given what Ive said above, I dont  think LV has caused avoidable  delay and stopped Mr Bs 
insurance claim progressing in a timely way. 
Ref: DRN63886237Settling the claim  
As our investigator explained, the liability issue is a separate matter to that of settling Mr Bs claim. 
I note there seems to be contradictory pieces of commentary  and evidence related  to when the car 
was deemed a total loss.  Our investigator has given  two different dates, which hasnt been helpful. 
Mr B has complained about this issue, specifically  about when the car was picked up from recovery 
by LV and its agents.  
LV have given me a report from its internal records which I can see has been completed by an 
engineer and its been  updated on the 10 April 2020. This date is also consistent with when LV say 
the engineer  said the car was a total loss. So given  what Ive seen Im satisfied that the car was 
deemed a total loss by an engineer on the 10 April 2020 and not the other dates that have previously 
been referenced. 
LV has also given me a screenshot that shows a call note was left between  its agent  and Mr B. This is 
date stamped as 12/04/2019 with the time showing us 14:14.  The note says Mr B was advised  of 
the offer LV was making for the total loss to his car. Thats two days after an engineer determined the 
car was a total loss. 
The note goes  onto say Veh on Conditional Sale finance  PH at work didnt have time to do a 
conference call/Is happy for me to use his details to pass DPA with FC to obtain settlement figure. 
Advised PH if I get this will let him know. As I understand it PH means policy holder and FC means  
finance company.      
Mr B says he did receive the call, but he didnt know it was to complete  a conference call and he was 
in a client meeting at the time.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
The same  LV agent has then left another call note for the same date but its time-stamped  14:26. 
Based on that Im satisfied it followed  the above call. The note is headed AD  Called FC, and it says 
theres no authority  on account  so the finance company  wouldnt give a settlement  figure. It goes onto 
say They advised they would  do conference  call with PH.   
This note is followed by another which shows a SMS  text message was sent to Mr B asking  him to 
contact the finance company  to leave authority. 
Mr B says he did receive this text message, and he did try and contact  the finance company but 
wasnt able to get through. He adds  that he was still recovering from his injuries sustained in the 
accident and was busy trying to run his business. 
Mr B goes onto say that he was aware of these  actions, but as no settlement figure had been agreed 
he didnt believe he needed  to speak to the finance company to progress matters. He adds that it took 
him several emails  and phone calls to LV to get the reason for what he felt was a low settlement 
figure. 
LVs records  show Mr B emailed it to ask for the settlement offer in writing.  And on the 16 May 2020, 
theres a record of a call with Mr B which shows a conversation took place  about the settlement figure. 
Specifically that Mr B had found similar  vehicles  being sold for more money  than he was being  
offered. The agent goes onto say he checked  a well-known car sales website and that in those  
examples the mileage was very different.  The agent then went  onto explain the effects of recovery 
and that there wouldnt be a change in the settlement offer as he didnt see a reason  to increase it. 
The note goes  onto say Mr B understood this, but asked for the examples to be sent to him and he 
will review and get back  to LV. 
From LVs records  I note that the finance company and Mr B were  sent settlement funds on the 20 
May 2020. LV have also said that it didnt get authorisation in place to speak to the finance company 
until the 20 May 2020. 
Ref: DRN63886238Our investigator said that the service LV provided in the claims process was below  that which  is 
expected. She went onto explain that this was because LV ought to have taken Mr Bs individual 
circumstances into consideration  namely  that a text message wasnt sufficient given Mr B appears 
to communicate by email  and phone. I think our investigator was wrong to say this. 
I say that because Mr B was aware  that LV needed him to leave authority for it to get a settlement 
figure from the finance company given  what Ive said above about the phone call and text message 
on 12 April 2020. It follows that Mr B knew this was an important  part he had to complete for the claim  
to get settled.  
Moreover, its clear from the notes and what Mr B has said to this service  that he didnt give this 
authorisation to the finance complaint to speak to LV until he had weighed  up and challenged  what  he 
felt was a low settlement offer.  It appears Mr B didnt give this authority until he was satisfied to move 
ahead and accept a settlement offer. This in turn explains why there was a delay in the claim being 
settled. So Im persuaded that this matter wasnt delayed  by LVs actions.  
                                                                            
In summary, and weighing everything up, I dont think LV have done  anything  wrong in not giving Mr 
B a hire car and the way in which it progressed  and handled the claim. Nor do I think LV have caused 
avoidable delays in reaching and completing the settlement of Mr Bs claim. It follows  that I wont be 
making an award for any distress or inconvenience to Mr B. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, especially considering how long he has waited for a decision on this 
matter. But I must reach a decision that I think is fair and reasonable based on all the available 
evidence and arguments in the circumstances of the complaint.  
Ref: DRN6388623