K820x#14complaint
Mr M acquired multiple devices between  January  2016 and January 2018, by means  of fixed 
term loan agreements with Telefonica UK Limited (trading as O2). He complains  that O2 
undertook inadequate affordability checks, and irresponsibly agreed to make  these loans.  He 
wants O2 to reduce  the number of his agreements with it to five, and to adjust the total 
amount he owes accordingly.
 
background
Mr M said:
He entered  into 18 loans  with O2 over 24 months (which subsequently  reduced to 
14)  the total value of this lending  was £16,000
His credit  rating score  was very poor during this period, and he could  not understand 
why O2 agreed to make  all these  loans in those circumstances
This lending by O2 contributed to a further  deterioration in his financial situation, 
which caused him to enter a Debt Management  Plan (DMP) 
O2 said:
It carried out appropriate affordability  checks, including the use of information from 
Mr Ms credit file, before  agreeing  to make these loans
It also asked Mr M a series of credit  worthiness  questions, which  he answered in a 
way that indicated he could afford to repay these loans
Mr Ms total outstanding balance is just under £12,000, and he needs  to discuss  with 
it repayment of this balance
Mr M referred his complaint to us in July 2018.  Our adjudicator asked him to provide us with 
a copy of his credit  file, and copies of his bank  statements for the periods immediately before 
each loan was agreed.  He agreed to provide a copy of his credit  file, but did not do so. He 
also did not provide  copies  of bank statements.
O2 provided documentary evidence to us  including copies of Mr Ms loan agreements,  and 
of correspondence  it had received in March 2018  from the organisation administering his 
DMP. This correspondence showed that Mr M entered  into his DMP in February  2018.  O2 
suggested to the DMP  administrating  organisation that Mr M should  contact it to discuss 
repayments over a six month period.
O2 also told us that Mr M had entered into 14 loans  between  August 2017 and 
January 2018:
Eight loans began in 2017,  the last monthly  payments for which  were  made  in 
January 2018
Six loans  began in January 2018, for all of which no repayments were  made
One of these 14 loan accounts  was disconnected in February  2018,  and the other 
accounts were disconnected in March 2018
O2 was unable  to provide any documentary evidence relating to the information it 
obtained from Mr Ms credit file, as part of its affordability checks  for these loans
Ref: DRN64231442Our adjudicator did not think this complaint should  be upheld. He noted that he had not 
received any of the following:
The results of affordability checks undertaken by O2
A copy of Mr Ms credit file, which would show what  O2 should have learned from this 
check about his financial situation,  during the periods  when he was applying  for loans
Copies of Mr Ms bank account statements for these periods 
As a result, our adjudicator was unable to determine  whether  or not the reason why Mr M 
found the loan repayments unaffordable was a change  in his circumstances. Our adjudicator 
appreciated that Mr M took out a sizable number of loans within a short  time period, but 
there was not enough evidence to show that O2s checks were  insufficient.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator. Mr M said it was totally  unreasonable  for O2 to agree to 
lend the amount of money it did to him, with completely insufficient  affordability checks. He 
would expect O2 to be able to provide evidence that it had carried out responsible  lending,  if 
it had actually done so. 
Mr M acknowledged that O2 did not charge high interest rates  (all his loans had zero interest  
rates). But he added  that these loans could  still be unaffordable, and cause debt spirals. 
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
This is a difficult case, where both Mr M and O2 have not provided evidence we asked for, to 
support statements made.
O2 says it carried out appropriate affordability tests before  agreeing the loans it made  to 
Mr M. But it has not provided evidence to support  this statement. Although  it has given us 
some information, which  appears  to show that Mr Ms repayment  history was not a cause for 
particular concern until after January 2018.
Mr M argues that he cant afford to repay the loans  made to him by O2. There is evidence  to 
show that he entered into a Debt Management  Plan (DMP) in February 2018, which 
indicates he was in financial difficulties at that time.  But he has not provided evidence  to 
show that he was also in financial difficulties (or that the O2 loans were unaffordable for 
other reasons), during  the period in which 14 loans were agreed (August 2017  to 
January 2018).
Mr M argues as well that O2 should  have reacted with extra  caution  to the number of 
(relatively small) loan requests he made, over a short period of time.  I acknowledge that 
affordability checks need to be proportionate, and so checks  for large loans may be different 
from those for large loans.  But I disagree  with Mr M  I think  that, in his circumstances,  key 
factors are his repayment history and the total monetary value of his borrowing, rather than 
the number of loans. 
Ref: DRN64231443Given that O2 is aware of Mr Ms DMP, I would expect it to be positive and sympathetic in its 
dealings with him. But, given the lack of evidence in this case, and on balance,  I am unable 
to find that O2 engaged  in irresponsible lending  which means that I have come to the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6423144