K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) is acting  unfairly and unreasonably by 
failing to let him add further arrears to his mortgage balance (consolidation) and let him 
only pay interest on those  arrears on a monthly basis.  He wants the arrears  consolidated as 
he wishes.
background
Mr W had an interest  only mortgage with BoS and got into arrears  several  times.  He wanted 
more arrears consolidated on an interest  only basis, and said that this had been agreed  
following an earlier  complaint to this service in 2017, two years  earlier.
The adjudicator who dealt with the first complaint had expressed  a view and noted that BoS 
had previously allowed  Mr W to consolidate his arrears in 2009  by capitalising  them to be 
repaid on a repayment basis by the end of the mortgage term, but hed got into arrears 
again. She didnt  think  that BoS had acted in a way to disadvantage Mr W and was entitled 
to have obtained a possession order. The investigator also noted that Mr W had been 
refunded fees and interest and allowed to make interest only payments for the whole debt, 
including arrears, though this concession  was subject to future  review.  She said that BoS 
had offered to treat the arrears that had arisen  and were set out in a specific  sub-account  of 
the mortgage to be treated as part of the overall  debt and as being on an interest only basis, 
but Mr W should consider  making payments as he hadnt paid anything  for about six months.
Mr W complained  to BoS. It said any consolidation of arrears  done now would have to be on 
the basis of repayment by the end of the mortgage term. BoS noted that when Mr W asked 
about consolidation in 2018, he didnt  have time to go through  the whole process and didnt 
call back. BoS explained  that the previous concession to allow  Mr W to consolidate arrears 
on an interest only basis was an exception made  due to his previous complaint  to this 
service. It was not willing to do so again.
Mr W complained  to us. The investigators  view was that BoS wasnt  at fault. He thought that 
Mr W believed  that all arrears up to June  2017, regardless of when they arose, would be 
capitalised on an interest only basis. But the investigator said that wasnt  correct  and wasnt  
what BoS had offered  previously. He thought  that it was reasonable for BoS to refuse  to do 
as Mr W wished  Mr W was supposed  to pay all the interest, and had benefitted  from an 
exception. Anything above  £550,000 (the original debt and the 2009  capitalised arrears) had 
to be repaid on a repayment basis in the investigators view and he noted that Mr W hadnt 
gone through the process to have a capitalisation  application considered. The investigator 
also said that BoS had provided  information about the likely required level of monthly 
payments.
Mr W disagreed.  He said he believed this service agreed that all arrears  up to June 2017 
should be consolidated on an interest  only basis. The investigator didnt change  his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note that the investigator in his view 
dealt with other issues, but these werent raised  in the complaint brought  to this service or by 
Mr W when he disagreed  with the view given. Im therefore going  to concentrate on the core 
of this complaint   the treatment of arrears by BoS.
Ref: DRN63330242An interest only mortgage only requires monthly payment of the interest due that month  on 
the whole  debt, and Mr W has repeatedly  and over a very long period  failed  to make those 
payments. Mr W has had the benefit  of consolidation of the arrears in 2009, which gave  him 
time to resolve matters without losing his property,  but theres a pattern  of him getting into 
more arrears. It isnt necessarily in Mr Ws interests for him to keep getting into arrears while 
the mortgage debt gets larger and may not be paid at the end of the mortgage  term. Any 
equity in the property will be reduced. 
And lenders are able to expect  to be paid on the basis set out in the mortgage offer accepted  
by the consumer. This means by the end of the mortgage term, all that should be 
outstanding for payment is the original loan amount (or in Mr Ws case,  the original loan 
amount and the 2009 capitalised arrears  in the sub-account  which BoS agreed in 2017  
would be treated as being  consolidated  on an interest only basis).
BoS was clear that the offer to consolidate  these arrears on an interest only basis  was an 
exception being  made, and it was a one-off. From reading both its offer letter  and the view of 
the investigator from the first complaint brought to this service, Im satisfied that what  BoS 
offered to do was to treat the 2009 capitalised arrears as being  on an interest  only basis.  
This was because Mr Ws original complaint was that the 2009 capitalisation had been done  
on a repayment  basis, which  he hadnt realised at the time. The offer of 2017 didnt deal with 
the uncapitalised arrears as of 2017 or any that has arisen since. Thats why Mr W wants 
another capitalisation.
But I dont think that its unfair or unreasonable for BoS to require any future  capitalisation to 
be on a repayment  basis, though I note that Mr W hasnt  actually  formally  applied for this 
step to be taken. It gave  Mr W an interest-only  mortgage and has been forced effectively to 
lend him more due to the failure to make payment in full and on time. Continuing to allow the 
debt to build  without payment isnt responsible lending  and Mr W has already had the benefit 
of a one-off  exception  to the usual  policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
4 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6333024