K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral)s  handling of 
a claim and the subsequent increase in their insurance premiums.
Background
Mr and Mrs G held a motor insurance policy with Admiral. In October  2018,  a third party
raised a claim for damage to a wall allegedly caused by Mrs G driving into it. Admiral
considered the claim and upheld it, paying compensation to the third party. Consequently,
Mr and Mrs G lost their no claims bonus.  At renewal,  Mr and Mrs G found their premiums
had increased  and a third-party claim had been recorded against  Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G maintain  that the wall belongs to them and the damage was caused  by the
third party removing bricks. They say the claim should not have  been  met. They  feel strongly 
that Admiral should  reclaim the funds paid to the third party and Admiral should  meet the 
cost of repairing  the wall to a better standard. Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the repair  
work undertaken to the wall, which they say was a botched  job and was undertaken without 
their authority.
Admiral now accept that the decision  to uphold the claim was made prematurely, for which
theyve apologised, but they consider that the information they received does show  that the
wall was owned by the third party,  so ultimately it wasnt unreasonable to meet the claim.
But Admiral  do accept  that the handling  of the claim was unfair and this caused Mr and
Mrs G upset and distress. Theyve  offered £200 in compensation and have reinstated
Mr and Mrs Gs no claims  bonus.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought there wasnt enough  to show  that
Mr and Mrs G owned  the wall, so she didnt think it was unreasonable for Admiral to have
met the claim. Given her findings about  the reasonableness  of the paying the claim, our
investigator didnt  think  Admiral had done anything wrong in increasing the premiums and
noted that even non-fault accidents have an impact on risk assessment. Our investigator
thought that Admirals offer to re-instate the no claims  bonus and to pay £200 for trouble and
upset was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G disagree with the view. They feel strongly that the evidence around  ownership
of the wall has not been properly considered  and point to the large number of documents
sent to Admiral, including  admissions made  by the third party  as to ownership of a boundary 
wall and the findings in a court hearing.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019, in which I upheld the complaint as I 
thought there was no evidence an accident  had occurred and I thought the boundary wall 
likely belonged to Mr and Mrs G. Both Mr and Mrs G and Admiral  reviewed that provisional  
decision and responded with further comments and documents.
Admiral provided further information, including a copy of a call recording with Mrs
G, in which  Mrs G admitted hitting the wall. Admiral  said that the top section of wall that was 
hit belonged to the third party. They also relied  upon  an inspection report  by a surveyor  who 
inspected the wall on behalf of Mr and Mrs Gs household insurance policy, which also 
confirmed impact damage by a vehicle.
Mr G remains  adamant  that he and his wife own the wall and that damage  was caused by
Ref: DRN65332952bricks being removed  by the third party.
Having considered the further information  I issued a second provisional decision in 
December 2019,  in which I decided not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive listened to a call recording from the time, in which  Mrs G accepts the vehicle hit the wall.
Impact damage is also supported by the opinion of an independent surveyor, albeit there
was some pre-existing damage to the wall.
The vehicle appears to have hit the corner of the end of the wall, which  caused  damage
further along the section  in front of the third partys property. There  has been a great deal of
information about who owns the wall, but this section of wall is different to the boundary wall
which Mr and Mrs G say they own. Having  reconsidered the deeds and the photographs, I
cant fairly say that Admiral reached  an unreasonable  decision to meet  the claim and to
record an accident on the CUE database.
Ive gone on to look at the premium increase. Im now satisfied that Admiral  correctly
recorded a claim. As our investigator explained,  we are unable to share full details of how
the premiums have been calculated, but based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that
the renewal premiums were calculated  correctly in line with Admirals  pricing  criteria.  So, I
cant say that anything has gone wrong  here.
I do still agree that Admiral didnt handle the claim well and it would have been preferable for
them to have waited  to review the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs G. Its clear  this caused
unnecessary distress.  But for the reasons given, I consider that it is likely  that the claim
would have been paid in any event.
Having read the correspondence from Mr and Mrs G it is evident that there  has been a lot of
confusion around  this matter. Its understandable, given the wider circumstances, that this
complaint has caused upset. But from the timeline  of events, it appears that much of the
issues that caused problems in the past were  related to a boundary wall.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but considering my findings  above, I now think
Admirals offer to re-instate the no claims bonus  and to pay £200  for distress and
inconvenience was fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking Admiral to do anything  more. I
understand that £200 has already been paid to Mr and Mrs G.
The parties have  confirmed receipt of this second,  provisional decision. Admiral  have  
nothing further  to add. Mr G has replied and disagrees  with the provisional decision. He 
explains that Mrs G has been unwell and is under stress so any admission she has given is 
unreliable, a surveyor reports says damage  was subsidence, Mr G had legal cover  and 
Admiral acted incorrectly. I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs G that I have read the detailed  
correspondence they have provided, much of which relates to an ongoing dispute with a 
third party about  a boundary wall and related matters.
Ive reviewed everything in order to reach  a final decision  on the issues raised in the original 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65332953I dont underestimate  Mr and Mrs Gs strength of feeling about  this matter and as Ive said,  
its clear theyve been through a difficult time over the last few years.  But it remains  my view 
that the call recording  from the time is reliable and Mrs Gs admission that she hit the wall is 
supported in a report from an independent surveyor. On the balance of probabilities, I find 
that an accident did occur.
Its clear theres been an ongoing dispute between Mr and Mrs G and the third party about 
the boundary  wall between the properties. Im sorry to hear this dispute has led to such 
distress. But having reviewed all the documents, I dont agree  with Mr and Mrs Gs view 
about the particular section of the wall that was hit. I havent been persuaded to change  the 
view I reached  in my last provisional decision,  so I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Admiral to record the incident. I wont be asking Admiral to amend the CUE database.
And as Ive said, Im satisfied that the renewal premiums were  calculated correctly in line 
with Admirals pricing criteria. So, I cant say that anything has gone wrong here. 
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs G have now asked for information about the 2020 renewal and this 
request has been  forwarded to Admiral by our investigator. The calculation of that premium 
is a new matter, so I wont be addressing it further within  this decision.
It remains my view that Admiral did not handle  this matter well, they should have waited for a 
response from Mr and Mrs G at the time they were  dealing with the complaint. Whilst I dont 
think that information would have led to a different outcome, I do think the timeline here has 
caused distress and inconvenience. I consider that the £200  already paid in compensation, 
was fair and reasonable.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs G but considering my findings  above, I think Admirals  
offer to re-instate the no claims bonus  and to pay £200 for distress  and inconvenience was 
fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking Admiral  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN65332954my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6533295