K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained about  Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds  (LV) handling  
of her car insurance policy.
background
Ms S was involved in an accident in March 2018  and her car was a total loss. She claimed  
on her car policy with LV. LV paid her what  they said was the pre-accident  market value of 
her car. 
Ms S complained, she said: the settlement value of her car was too low; when she wanted to 
buy back the salvage of her car the amount LV asked for was too high; and she didnt think 
she was at fault for the accident and LV accepted liability  without properly investigating.
LV didnt uphold  her complaint. Ms S didn't think that was fair so she brought her complaint 
to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint.  She felt that LV had treated Ms S 
fairly. As Ms S didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint  has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Ms S, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Ms S has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if LV have dealt with Ms S in a fair and reasonable way.
valuation of the car
The policy says that where the car is a total loss, LV must pay Ms S the pre-accident  market 
value of it as assessed  by an engineer using the trade guides. I feel that the starting point 
when trying to establish the market value of a car is to look at the industry  trade guides, and 
that is what LV did, as I would expect. The guides  are based on extensive  nationwide  
research of likely selling  prices. 
I can see that the final valuation of £6,803 took into consideration  the specific  characteristics 
of Ms Ss car, its mileage, age and the extras she had added when she bought it. Ms S 
provided a number of adverts for cars she said were similar to hers that were  advertised for 
around £10,000. But LV correctly pointed out that they had substantially lower  mileage than 
Ms Ss car and some  were  different  to hers. I have also seen a number of adverts  for cars 
provided by LV that are around £6,500. They are very similar to Ms Ss car and I think better 
reflect the market  value of her car.
In any event, we find the guides reliable and more persuasive than the asking  price for a 
car advertised. The advertised asking price  for a car is not necessarily the price it sold for, 
nor is it necessarily the true market value.  And often the advertised price  may be inflated  to 
allow for negotiation.
Ref: DRN62341792I feel the settlement  offer LV made was fair and reasonable,  and that they followed the 
industry accepted  valuation  method that our service  expects. And I havent seen any 
convincing evidence to show  that the valuation should have been higher, so Im not asking 
LV to increase their offer.
the cost of buying back the salvage
Ms S told LV that she was interested in buying back the salvage of her car. Given it was safe 
for her car to be repaired and put back  on the road, LV were  happy for Ms S to do that. They  
told her she would have  to pay £2,166 for the salvage. But Ms S wasnt  happy with that and 
felt that it was too high. So she didn't buy the salvage herself.
It might help if I explain that once an insurer pays the total loss value of a car to a 
policyholder, they become the owner of the car. Its then common  practice  for the insurer  to 
sell the salvage  of the car, often through salvage agents. Cars sold on in this way are often 
either repaired and put back on the road or sold off as parts. We think the insurer disposing 
of a car in this way is fair, because the insurer having paid the market value of the car  its 
reasonable for them to try and recoup as much of their outlay as possible.
LV explained  to Ms S that, when offering the salvage to a customer, it uses information  from 
the salvage agent to calculate the price. And I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I have  been  told by LV that the salvage of Ms Ss car actually  sold for £3,100. So the 
price it offered her was below what it eventually received. So Im satisfied that it didn't treat 
her unfairly. Im therefore not upholding this part of the complaint as I think  LVs offer was 
reasonable.
liability for the accident
Ms S said that she felt the other driver was to blame for the accident because  their fog lights  
blinded her. When Ms S challenged LVs liability  decision  they referred the matter to their 
solicitor for review.  The solicitor having looked  at all the available information said:
We are unable to reach  a firm conclusion in relation to liability  as we have only been 
provided with limited information from both [Ms S] and the third party. However,  the 
information we do have does suggest that the most  likely outcome would be that 
[Ms S] would  be at fault for the incident  From the documentation  provided we have 
been able to reach the above conclusion in respect  of liability.  It is our opinion that 
the following  documents should be sought:
 A full statement from your insured
 A full statement from the third party
 Statements from any witnesses
 CCTV footage
I understand Ms S feels that LVs solicitor couldnt come to a liability decision because they 
didnt have all the necessary information. But LV confirmed that there  was no CCTV or 
witnesses. The other drivers version of events was confirmed  in their claim form. And while  
LV didnt get a written statement from Ms S, they said they relied on her verbal statement 
when she called to report the incident. And on the basis  of that, LV said she was at fault for 
the accident and a written statement couldnt undo what was said by Ms S during that call. 
I have seen the details of what  Ms S told LV and she told them the road had ice, that her car 
skidded and she went across the road into the oncoming other cars lane where the crash 
Ref: DRN62341793happened. Ms S agreed with LVs call handler that she was at fault. It was only a day later 
that Ms S called  again  and said she felt the other driver was to blame because  they had their 
fog lights on. LVs solicitors advice on this point was:
The accident  description  we have states that [Ms S] skidded on ice and ultimately  
collided with a tree [after  the impact with the other  driver]. If the road conditions are 
such that the surface is icy or there is a risk that the road will be icy, [Ms S] will be 
expected to adapt their driving  accordingly.  We are unable to comment on how 
[Ms S] had been  driving, but it could be argued that she was not driving  in an 
appropriate manner  by the fact that she skidded  on the ice. [Ms S] is responsible for 
maintaining control  of her vehicle at all times.
In other  words, the solicitors said that as Ms S wasn't in control of her car, she was at fault 
for the accident.  LVs view was the same  as their solicitor, in that Ms S was at fault. And 
given a written statement  wouldnt  have undone  what Ms S said during her first report  of the 
incident, LV didnt see the need to get a written statement. Had a written statement been  
obtained and Ms S said something contrary to what she initially  told LV, then again I think LV 
wouldnt have changed their liability decision because then Ms Ss credibility would have  
been in issue.  LV have experience in dealing with cases like this and I am satisfied they 
accepted liability  and settled after investigating  the claim. And they took into consideration all 
the information Ms S gave them. And I don't think they would settle a claim where they didn't 
think they had other  options. It follows that I think their decision was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019. 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6234179