K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that a used car she got with a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) provided by 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited (trading as Nissan Finance) (NF) was misrepresented  and of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 January 2020. A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties
NF raised no objections to my provisional findings but Ms H does not agree. She accepts the 
car is driveable but says (in summary):-
the car was not supplied in the condition that she was promised;
relevant paperwork  was withheld from her by the dealer and thats unfair;
the issue is not the moulding itself but the fact that it disguised damage  to the metal 
underneath - that looks as if it was bent by a crowbar in the past - and this alone 
shows the pre-sale  inspection was inadequate;
its wrong that that another  alternative dispute resolution organisation found  in her 
favour previously but I reached  a different view - she feels  theres a gap and her case 
has fallen into it which is not her fault;
the only option left to her now is to accept repairs from the dealer that should  have 
been done before the car was supplied; and   
she took the car back to the dealer recently  for other repairs  and she was told that 
she might  be charged a £500 excess if she accepted a courtesy car - she doesnt  
think its fair that she would have  to incur the risk of having  to pay such an excess  if 
someone else damaged  the courtesy vehicle.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Ms H is disappointed with my provisional findings.  I want  to assure her that I 
have considered everything  that she has said carefully. I realise  she feels certain that the 
pre-sale inspection here was not carried out properly - and she thinks the car was mis-
represented and of unsatisfactory quality. But, for the reasons I have explained already in 
my provisional decision, I cant reasonably find thats the case. 
I appreciate its frustrating for Ms H that another organisation said it would likely uphold  her 
complaint - but I cant  be certain what evidence was before that organisation or how it came 
to that view. Taking all of the evidence that Ive seen into account,  I remain of the view that it 
would not be fair or reasonable to find that Ms H should be entitled to reject  this car. 
For the reasons  Ive given, I think the dealers  offer to fix the door at no cost to Ms H seems 
fair overall.  I am afraid that insurance  arrangements  in respect  of any courtesy car (that the 
dealer might  offer Ms H whilst her car is repaired) are outside of my remit here. So, I am 
unable to reasonably require NF to do more than the dealer has already offered in this 
situation. And I leave  it to Ms H to contact  the business if she wants to accept  that offer. 
Ref: DRN64437582my final decision
For the reasons  I have  already explained,  my decision  is I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64437583copy provisional decision
complaint
Ms H complains that a used car she got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) provided  by RCI 
Financial Services  Limited (trading as Nissan Finance)  (NF) was misrepresented and of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
background
Ms H acquired this car on 18 April 2018. She found the brakes  were noisy not long after and the 
dealer fixed  this without charge. Ms H noticed some  moulding was coming away  on the passenger 
door shortly after that. She thinks this was glued down  previously and started  to come away in hot 
weather. She believes the car was broken into in the past and someone took a crowbar  to the door 
causing damage which  was repaired but meant the moulding had to be re-attached.  
Ms H contacted the dealership on 8 May 2018 about the door and it offered  to carry  out repairs at no 
cost to her. Ms H felt the car had been mis-represented  and was of unsatisfactory quality  so she 
wanted to reject it. She contacted NF and asked it to take the car back and provide a full refund. 
NF says the car was nearly 2 years  old when Ms H got it. It was satisfied that the dealer had done a 
HPI check which was clear and checked the car thoroughly before sale - to ensure it met the standard  
appropriate for inclusion in the relevant manufacturers used approved  scheme. It says the dealer 
didnt know about the issues Ms H raised when  the car was sold and doesnt accept these were  
faults which would allow her to reject  the car. The dealer told NF there was nothing  wrong  with the 
brakes but it agreed to replace slightly worn pads and fix the cosmetic issue to the door as a goodwill 
gesture. NF thinks this was fair and Ms H had a reasonable  response to her complaint  so it shouldnt 
have to do anything  further. 
Our investigator is satisfied  that the dealer  carried  out pre-sale checks  and repairs  and Ms H 
accepted the work done to the brakes. Shes not persuaded  the door moulding  starting to peel 
amounts to a fault which would entitle Ms H to reject a used  car in this situation.  She thinks the offer 
to fix the door seems fair overall  and she doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  
Ms H is unhappy  with this outcome. She says (in summary):
she was told the car had been checked pre-sale  but this wasnt done properly - as the 
relevant checklist  is incomplete,  the top section wasnt  ticked to say whether the car needed  
further work;
the checklist mentions  damage to the drivers  door which is wrong  as the damage she 
complained about  is to the passenger door;
the checklist is dated  December 2017 so the dealer had plenty of time to rectify any issues 
before sale;
she wasnt given a copy of the check list with the car and the dealer refused to provide a copy 
when she asked for that later;
the fact the dealer did some work  to the brakes shows  there must  have been something 
wrong with them and that should have been picked  up on the pre-sale check  as well;
whoever checked the car should have noticed that the passenger door window is not the 
original window - because  its not etched - and that should have  put the dealer on notice that 
the car had been repaired in the past;
she wanted to keep this car for some time so she asked  about the cars history specifically, 
the salesman assured  her the car had been fully inspected  and showed her the approved 
guarantee;
its wrong that the salesman didnt  tell her that this particular model has been subject to break  
ins in the past by thieves looking  for memory cards from the infotainment system - the 
dealer should have  been  aware  of this as the infotainment system was redesigned on later 
models for this reason;
Ref: DRN64437584she would have chosen  a newer model - which she had looked  at elsewhere and only cost 
£2,000 more - if the salesman had been  told her about the cars past;
the car now judders  at times, the infotainment system doesnt work properly  and the previous 
poor repairs have compromised the vehicle so theres condensation inside  sometimes;  and
she paid a premium for an approved car from a main dealer but thats not what  she got - and 
she now has to pay for the car for four years when she has no faith in it or the dealership. 
Ms H asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what  I consider is most likely  to have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
NF supplied this car to Ms H under a finance agreement. This means NF was required under  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure (amongst other  things) that the car was of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply.  I am satisfied that I can also consider  any representations made during 
the course of pre-sale negotiations in this complaint against NF, under section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
I have spoken to Ms H about what happened. I understand she feels this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality because it had noisy brakes and some moulding in the passenger door started  to come away 
not long after supply. I can see she also has strong feelings about  the sale process itself. 
Ms H told me she approached  a main dealer  because, even though she knew she might pay more, 
she wanted  to be sure that the car had a good history  and was checked thoroughly  before sale.  She 
feels the car was misrepresented because she was told that it had been inspected in accordance with 
the relevant manufacturers  approved scheme. She doesnt think that can have happened given the 
quality issues she found. And shes unhappy that she wasnt  told that the car had been broken into 
and repaired previously - even though she asked about its history specifically.  
satisfactory quality
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances,  but it is 
generally considered reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into account 
in the case of a used car. The car Ms H got here was around  2 years old, cost just over £12,000  and 
had 10,465 miles on the clock. And I think most people  would accept  that whilst the car was fairly  new 
it was unlikely to be completely fault free and wouldnt be of the same standard  as a brand new 
vehicle - which is reflected  in the lower  price  Ms H paid.  
I dont think theres any dispute that Ms H reported two issues to the dealer not long after she got the 
car. She found the brakes were noisy and the dealer agreed to sort out this out at no charge. The 
dealer says the brakes were barely worn so they werent  faulty but it agreed to do this work as a 
goodwill gesture. I understand  Ms H feels there must  have  been something wrong or the dealer  
wouldnt have agreed to carry out repairs. But, I cant fairly find the brakes  must  have been faulty - 
solely on the basis that they made a noise and the dealer  fixed  that. 
Based on the evidence I have seen  so far, I am satisfied that the brakes  were checked before the car 
was supplied to Ms H. And, on balance, I think it is unlikely  they were  defective  at that stage. Even if I 
were to accept there  was a significant brake issue at the outset, I have  seen an invoice for work  done 
to the brakes dated14 May 2018 (for new front brake pads and discs). I note the mileage on this 
invoice seems  to be wrong (its 7399) - but I have no reason to think  thats anything  other than a 
typographical error. I am satisfied that the dealer appears to have carried  out the work and Ms H 
Ref: DRN64437585accepted that at the time. I think this was a reasonable way of dealing  with the matter. So I cant  fairly 
find NF should have  to do anything further in this respect. 
Not long after Ms H told the dealer about the brake noise, she noticed that some  moulding on the 
passenger door was coming away. She thinks this is because the car was broken  into in the past and 
the moulding  was re-sealed  during the course of repairing  the damage. I cant be certain from the 
evidence that I have seen  what might have caused the moulding issue.  I have spoken to Ms H and 
she has confirmed  that this was something she noticed on closer inspection - not because  the 
detached moulding was particularly obvious  or had affected her use of the car. Theres no suggestion 
that Ms H noticed there  was anything wrong with the moulding when she saw the car at the 
dealership. And Ms H seems  to accept the moulding probably only started  to come away after she got 
the car - when the weather  got warmer. 
For the reasons  I have  set out further below, I am satisfied its likely  that this car was inspected by the 
dealer before it was supplied.  I dont think it likely the moulding issue was noticeable at that stage - as 
this wasnt  picked up when  other relatively  minor defects were. I realise Ms H is really  unhappy  that 
this wasnt  picked up and pointed out to her pre-sale. But I am not persuaded,  on balance, that it was 
concealed deliberately. As far as I can tell the detachment  of the moulding seems to be cosmetic in 
nature. I am not satisfied  that I can reasonably find this amounts to a fault that would  entitle Ms H to 
reject the car. And I think the dealers offer to carry out repairs, at no cost to Ms H, sounds fair in all of 
the circumstances. 
misrepresentation
In broad terms, for me to find there had been a misrepresentation when this car was supplied, I would 
have to be satisfied that Ms H was told something  untrue  and she relied  on that when  she decided to 
acquire this particular car and take out the finance. 
Theres no dispute that the car was sold under the manufacturers  approved  scheme. I accept  this 
scheme says approved cars would be inspected obsessively and subject to a 100 point check. The 
dealer says this 100 point check was undertaken. I have also seen the relevant check list. And I think 
this suggests the car was inspected in line with the manufacturers  approved scheme  criteria before  
sale. 
I appreciate Ms H feels this check was not done properly  - she says the form wasnt completed 
correctly, she didnt get copy at the time and the door and brake issues would have  been picked up if 
the inspection had been as thorough as it should have been.  But I cant  fairly find the pre-sale 
inspection didnt take place - or wasnt carried out properly - solely on the basis that the form isnt 
entirely complete and Ms H didnt get a copy at the point of sale.  
From the paperwork Ive seen, I am satisfied the front and rear brakes  were checked and the pads 
were found  to have 8mm and 5mm left. I can see that damage to the drivers door was also noted  
during this check and the dealer has supplied  an invoice for over £400 from a third party for related 
repairs. On balance,  I think  it is more likely than not the pre-sale inspection was undertaken in line 
with the manufacturers  approved scheme criteria. And I cant  fairly find this was misrepresented.
I understand Ms H feels  she was mis-led by the salesman - in that she specifically asked if the car 
had any damage in the past and/or whether there was anything in its history that she should know 
about. She told me the salesman assured her the car was "as good as new",  it had just done a few 
more miles than a new car and she would  save thousands of pounds compared  to the price  of a new 
vehicle. She considers that was untrue  because the moulding issue in the passenger door proves  the 
car must have been broken into previously - and the salesman should have known that and told her. 
I cant  be certain what was discussed exactly between Ms H and the salesman but I think its likely the 
cars previous  history probably did come up in that conversation. Im satisfied the dealer ran a HPI 
check which showed nothing  of concern  in the cars  history.  And I cant fairly  find the salesman had 
reason to know about or mention any adverse  history to Ms H, in this situation. 
Ref: DRN64437586I appreciate Ms H feels sure that the damage to the passenger door resulted from a previous break-in 
but I have seen nothing to show  thats what  happened.  Ive given some thought  to what  she says 
about the new window  and whether that should have made  the dealer suspect  there had been a 
break in in the past. I can think of several reasons  for replacing a car window  that dont involve  a 
break in. And I am not persuaded the presence of the new window is something the dealer should 
reasonably have noticed  or been suspicious about and/pointed out to Ms H.  
For the reasons  Ive given, I am not satisfied that there are fair and reasonable grounds to find Ms Hs 
entitled to reject this car for a refund. I think the dealers offer to fix the door, at no cost to her, seems 
fair, in all of the circumstances.  And I am minded to leave it to Ms H to contact the dealer if she wants 
to accept that. 
When I spoke to Ms H she mentioned some problems which shes had with the car more recently  
which I dont think shes yet raised with NF. Ive explained that she would need to give NF the chance 
to consider those and, if shes unhappy with its response, she may be able to bring another complaint  
about that to our service. 
I now invite  the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. After that Ill look at all of the available evidence and make my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 11 February  2020,  my 
provisional decision  is I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN6443758