K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy at The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plcs  decision to review, block  
and subsequently close their accounts. 
background
Mr and Mrs B have  held accounts  with The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) for a number of 
years.
In May 2018, Mr B found that his card declined  when  he tried to use it a number of times, 
however his wifes  card from their joint account still worked.
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs B couldnt access their accounts online. They called RBS to find 
out what was going  on and learned  their accounts had been blocked.  While the accounts  
were blocked, Mr and Mrs B couldnt use any of the money  so they had to borrow  money 
from friends and family as well as from Mr Bs business account. They had a number of 
Direct Debit payments  failed because of the block, and cheque payments to local suppliers 
also bounced. Mr and Mrs B also had a holiday around the time the account  was blocked so 
it caused further distress  to them.
Mr and Mrs B complained to RBS.  They wanted  to know why RSB blocked the account. RBS 
responded and said they didnt have to provide a reason.
In July 2018, RBS removed  the block and Mr and Mrs B could access the money and use 
the accounts again. They transferred their money to an account with a different bank.
In September  2018, RBS gave Mr and Mrs B 60 days  notice to close  their accounts.
The investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think RBS had acted unreasonably. He 
said they followed the correct process when reviewing and subsequently closing the 
accounts. And while he appreciated Mr and Mrs Bs feelings, he said RBS arent obliged to 
give a reason for their actions. So he didnt ask them to do anything.
Mr B remained unhappy.  He accepted that RBS could  close  the account, but he thought 
there should be a legitimate reason for blocking it  and he didnt think there was one. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will come  as a great disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs B so Ive explained my reasons further  below.
Mr Bs card declining in May 2018
Ive considered Mr Bs comments  about  his card declining in May 2018.  But I havent seen 
anything to suggest this was linked  to RBS carrying out a review of his accounts. And seeing 
as RBS blocked Mr Bs account which he held with Mrs B, if it was linked  Id expect her to 
experience issues  with her card as well  but she didnt. Therefore, while I appreciate  the 
Ref: DRN62924042inconvenience this must  have  caused to Mr B Im not satisfied its linked to the 
circumstances of this complaint. So I wont  be asking RBS to do anything.
account review
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr and Mrs B to realise they couldnt  use 
their accounts. And I appreciate this put them in a financially  challenging position  because 
they didnt have access to their funds  especially because they were  going on holiday.  And 
it caused embarrassment due to cheques  to local suppliers bouncing, and Direct Debit  
payments not being paid. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds  in an account  are 
readily available.
Ive considered RBSs  actions when reviewing and subsequently suspending Mr and Mrs Bs 
accounts. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
with their legal  and regulatory obligations.  And I havent  seen  that they caused any 
unnecessary delays when reviewing Mr and Mrs Bs accounts. I say that because it appears  
the blocks were placed around 28 June 2018 and they were  removed around 10 July 2018. I 
dont think a period  of less than two weeks to carry out a review is unreasonable.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B would like RBS to give them an explanation why they reviewed  
their accounts. A bank  isnt obliged to do that. However Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied RBS acted appropriately in the circumstances 
when reviewing and suspending Mr and Mrs Bs accounts. 
account closure 
RBS are entitled to close an account  with Mr and Mrs B just as they may close their account 
with RBS. But before RBS closes an account, they must do so in a way, which  complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  
Ive considered the terms and conditions which apply for Mr and Mrs Bs accounts. And in 
particular, the term Nat West says they relied on. Section 12 explains the reasons RBS can 
close an account and how much notice they have to give. Im satisfied, based on the 
information Ive seen, RBS have acted  in line with the terms and conditions. 
overall
In summary,  I know my decision will come as a great  frustration and disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs B. But having  looked  at whats happened here I dont think  RBS treated them 
unfairly when making the decision to review, suspend or subsequently  close the accounts. 
So I wont  be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Hayley West
Ref: DRN62924043ombudsman
Ref: DRN6292404