K821x#15complaint
Miss S says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about ten payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Miss S from August 
2011 onwards.  Miss S last loan was provided in May 2012.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss S complaint and thought the complaint about  loans 
three to ten should be upheld. 
Quick Quid didnt agree in full with our adjudicator so the complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Miss S 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN61053352Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the rules  and guidance  in place at the relevant times define a sustainable  
manner as being without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income  and/or 
available savings. So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a 
sustainable manner  if they have a history of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit 
agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss S complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three to six would most likely 
have shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Miss S income. 
In these circumstances, there  was a significant risk that Miss S wouldnt have been  
able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss S, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss S was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan seven. I say 
this because:
by the time of loan seven, Miss S had owed  Quick  Quid  money for a period of 
approaching six months. In my view, Miss S owing  Quick  Quid money for this period 
of time, in these  circumstances,  was in itself a clear demonstration  of Miss S inability 
to settle her loans  over the life of the credit  agreement.  
Miss S continued to be provided with new loans  shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Miss S was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of her previous loans left in 
her finances and that Miss S indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. 
I think that Miss S lost out because  Quick Quid loans  three  to ten because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss S indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time she owed Quick Quid  money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss S ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans three to ten and Quick Quid  should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss S paid on loans three to nine;
Ref: DRN61053353pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan ten included interest  and charges that Miss S 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss S complaint.  Casheuronet  UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6105335