K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund disputed  payments made  from her 
account.
what happened
On 5 September 2017, Miss S was sent a new card, following a previous fraud claim. She 
used it twice, with the last time being 7 September 2017.
On 11 September  2017, Miss Ss relative  deposited cash  into the account using an 
automated machine. Lloyds say the relative  wouldve  needed the card to do this, but would 
not have entered the PIN.
Between 11 and 24 September 2017, Miss Ss card was used for cash withdrawals totalling 
£3,040.
On 24 September  2017, following a text from the bank, Miss S checked her online banking. 
She then reported  the transactions, saying she didnt make  them.
Miss S said by this point  shed realised her card was missing, but she hadnt noticed before 
as she didnt use the account  much. She said she kept it in her bag along with other  things 
such as her phone,  keys and ID. She said she didnt  give anyone  her card or PIN, didnt 
write the PIN down anywhere, and was 100% sure no one close to her had been  able to see 
her enter it.
Lloyds didnt think the withdrawals were fraudulent.  They  said Miss Ss real card and correct  
PIN were used. And they couldnt see a likely way that someone got those without her 
permission. They also said that Miss S usually checked her online banking very regularly, 
and it was unusual  that she didnt check it for almost two weeks when the disputed  
transactions were  going on.
Miss S then came to our service.  Our investigator  looked into things independently, but didnt 
uphold the complaint. She explained  the withdrawals had been made with the genuine card 
and PIN, but she couldnt see a likely point where the card wouldve been  taken  or where  
someone wouldve  learned Miss Ss PIN without her permission. She pointed out that the 
person using the card left gaps of several  days between uses  instead of trying  to get as 
much cash  out as quickly as possible. And she said it was unusual  that Miss S didnt use or 
check her account for so long.
Miss S disagreed with our investigator. She felt it was more  likely that the banks systems 
had failed and someone had been able to clone  her card or learn her PIN that way. She said 
she did in fact keep  her PIN stored  in an email draft along with her other  passwords, but that 
no one else had access to it. She later clarified  that she could have  possibly left her email 
logged in on an unprotected tablet.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN61391772Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Lloyds can hold Miss S liable for the withdrawals in dispute  if the evidence  suggests 
that its most  likely  she made  them herself  or authorised someone  else to make  them;  or, if 
she deliberately  didnt take reasonable steps  to keep her account safe.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  making  the withdrawals used 
Miss Ss genuine card, and the correct PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for Lloyds to hold 
Miss S liable. So I also need to think about  whether the evidence  suggests that its most 
likely Miss S consented to the withdrawals, or not.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Miss S authorised the transactions. Ill explain 
why.
While its certainly  possible that someone could have stolen the card from Miss Ss bag, its 
unusual that the thief didnt take anything else. Miss S explained that she didnt keep 
valuables such as gold jewellery in her bag. But she did say she kept her ID, phone, and 
keys there,  and they dont seem to have  been  taken. So it seems unlikely that an unknown  
thief stole the card.
Similarly, the person  using the card left gaps of several days  between uses, instead of trying  
to withdraw money  as quickly  as possible.  And there were no attempts  to use the card after 
it was cancelled, which indicates that the person who had the card knew it was cancelled.  So 
again, it doesnt look like an unknown person did this.
It is unusual that Miss S stopped  using this account  for so long while  the disputed 
withdrawals were happening. While I understand that Miss S was living  with her family, she 
still used the account quite often  usually, and didnt normally have gaps in usage that were 
quite this large. And she said she didnt have any other accounts.
Miss S originally said she hadnt told anyone the PIN or written  it down  anywhere.  She 
doubted anyone  could have overlooked it, and was 100% sure a friend  or family  member 
couldnt have  learned it. But if thats  the case, its difficult  to see how someone got Miss Ss 
PIN without  her permission. The last time shed used the PIN was four days  before the 
disputed transactions  started.  And it seems unlikely  that someone  would have  overlooked 
her entering her PIN and then waited  so long to take or use the card.
 
Ref: DRN61391773Miss S later said she kept her PIN in an email draft that no one else had access  to. She then 
clarified that while she often logged out, she couldve left it logged  in on an unprotected 
tablet. This is very different from what Miss S said before,  and she has only told us this 
around two years after the payments  happened. So its difficult for me to rely on this latest  
testimony. But in any case, the terms and conditions of Miss Ss account  required that she 
did not store  her PIN in a recognisable way, and that she did what she reasonably could to 
prevent someone  finding out her PIN. If she stored her PIN in a recognisable way in an email  
account left open on an unprotected tablet,  then I think its fair to say that Miss S knowingly 
and intentionally  failed to keep her details reasonably safe  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And so shed  still be liable for the withdrawals if someone learned 
the PIN that way. And again, I dont think an unknown thief did this, as its hard to see how 
theyd have accessed both the tablet and the card, undetected and at different times; and 
why they didnt then steal the tablet too.
Miss S suggested that someone  couldve  learned the PIN from Lloyds. But the way PINs  
work mean theyre not stored on a database  or on the card, and are not in a form where they 
could be stolen from the bank. There is no evidence that suggests someone  could  have 
somehow learned  the PIN from Lloyds.
Ive thought about whether someone  close to Miss S could have made these payments, 
particularly if they learned her PIN from her email account. But Miss S has been  adamant  
throughout that its not possible for a friend or relative to have done this without her 
permission. Shes repeated a number of times how sure she is. And most recently, she did 
not answer our questions  around this and insisted an unknown thief must have done  it. So 
Miss S has herself ruled out this possibility.
Ive also considered the way the account  was used. Its funded  by a relatives money, and 
Miss S explained that she and the relative  effectively use it as a joint account. She said she 
was, in effect, borrowing that relatives money,  although the account was in her sole name. 
And she used that account not just for her own purposes, but also to pay for her relatives 
business expenses.
Miss S has explained very clearly that she never  gave her card or security details to her 
family. But a few hours before  the disputed transactions started, the relative deposited a 
large amount of cash into the account at an automated machine, and in order  to do that they 
needed the card. So it looks like Miss S did give her card to her relative  on at least  that 
occasion. Further, one of the versions  of events Miss S gave is that she noticed the card 
was missing when a different family member sent her to buy something using funds in the 
account.
I cant be sure what happened here.  But it seems  Miss S was sharing the account with at 
least one family member. So I think that if these withdrawals were  carried  out by a relative,  
its more likely than not that theyd previously  been given permission by Miss S to use the 
account  even if she hadnt  given  them permission to make these withdrawals in particular.
Lastly, I do understand why Miss S would now like to see CCTV footage. As our investigator 
explained, even  if it were still available after so long,  it wouldve been  unlikely  to be helpful  in 
this case. CCTV would only show what the person making the withdrawals looked like. It 
would not show  whether  they had been given permission by Miss S or not.
Ref: DRN61391774In summary,  Im satisfied  that Lloyds records are correct that it was Miss Ss genuine card 
and PIN that were  used. Based on the evidence,  there is not a likely way that an unknown  
person did this. And from what Miss S has told us, it seems it was not someone close to her 
who did this without her permission. In my view that leaves only one plausible possibility  
which is that Miss S made the withdrawal herself  or had given someone else permission to 
use her account. I know this is a difficult message for Miss S to receive. But given the 
evidence I have, Im unable to reasonably reach any other  conclusion.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Lloyds  to refuse a refund in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139177