K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out in 2003 and 2004 alongside  three loans. Each loan refinanced  the previous loan. Mr L 
says Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  because:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. Ive seen 
copies of all three  loan agreements and all describe  the PPI as being optional.  Mr L 
signed all of these  documents. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of the sales  it doesnt  
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide got a high level of commission  and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because 
Nationwide didnt  tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what hes said about  his other 
repayment options (employee benefits, savings  and other policies). But these  points dont 
change my decision. The PPI would have  paid out in addition  to Mr Ls other means  and, 
from the information available to me, for a longer period of time. And anyway, as already 
mentioned, Nationwide didnt advise Mr L to take PPI. This means Nationwide  didnt  have to 
take into account Mr Ls existing repayment  means  when selling him PPI. Instead it would 
Ref: DRN64445432have been for Mr L to decide whether to take PPI despite his existing means and from the 
evidence Ive seen  it does look like he decided to take it out despite his existing means.
what Nationwide needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr L any extra interest  
Mr L paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr L the extra he paid each month  on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr L paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest 
on the extra paid each month  (15% on payments before  April 1993). 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6444543