K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that MMP Financial Limited (trading as Swift  Sterling)  gave him loans that 
he couldnt afford.
background
Mr W took out a total of twelve  loans with Swift Sterling between August  2017 and June 
2018. Mr W repaid all of his loans in full and on time except  for his final loan which  at the 
time of Mr Ws complaint still had a balance outstanding. In its final response to Mr Ws 
complaint Swift Sterling  agreed to waive  that balance. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that the checks Swift  Sterling  did before  making the first two loans went  far enough. 
But she didnt think it had carried out adequate  checks  before making the other  loans. And 
she thought that proportionate checks when Mr W applied for loans 3 to 12 would have 
shown that he wasnt borrowing  sustainably. So she recommended  that Swift Sterling refund 
all interest and charges  that Mr W paid on loans 3 to 12, with interest on the refund. 
Swift Sterling didnt agree and said that Mr W did not demonstrate  any difficulty  in repaying 
his loans and on a number of occasions  he repaid his loans  early.  Although  Mr W had some  
overlapping borrowing there  was nothing to suggest that he couldnt  meet  his repayments. 
Swift Sterling did offer to refund all interest  and charges  paid on loans 7 to 11 but Mr W 
didnt accept that offer, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Swift Sterling needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Swift  Sterling should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN62726892There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Swift  Sterling was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Swift Sterling to give Mr W loans 1 and 2. 
I say this because  this was early  in the lending relationship and there was nothing  in the 
information given  by Mr W to suggest  that further checks  were  necessary. Mr W applied for 
his first loan of £200 on the 5 August 2017.  The repayment of £297.14 was a small 
proportion of Mr Ws declared  income of £3099. Mr W repaid this loan on 18 October  2017.  
Just over a week later on the 27 October  2017  Mr W applied for loan 2 and 3 with a 
combined total of £1215. The repayment on these  two loans  of £1516 was a significant 
proportion of Mr Ws declared  income. I think that Swift Sterling should  have  done  more to 
check that Mr W could afford to repay this loan and should have  specifically asked whether 
Mr W had any other  short  term credit. I think Swift Sterling needed to do more to verify  what 
Mr W was saying about his financial situation  given his declared disposable income  seemed  
to be at odds with his borrowing pattern. Had Swift Sterling  done these additional checks  it 
would have discovered that Mr W was having  problems  managing  his money  and was 
borrowing from multiple short term lenders. So, like the adjudicator,  I agree that loan 3 
should not have been given to Mr W. Given the size of the repayment  and what  Swift 
Sterling should  have discovered  it was likely  that Mr W would need to borrow  further to 
sustainably repay  this loan. 
Mr W repaid loans 2 and 3 early  on the 17 November 2017. This might  further  suggest  that 
he had borrowed elsewhere  to meet his repayment. A few weeks later on 8 December  2017  
Mr W applied  to borrow £325. I think at this point Swift Sterling could no longer rely on what 
Mr W was saying about his finances  and should  have verified his income  and outgoings as 
his borrowing pattern suggested  he was reliant on short term credit.  I have looked  at Mr Ws 
bank statements for this period and they show that Mr W had multiple  loans and was using 
short term credit  for his day to day needs. I think that if Swift Sterling had done  what  I 
consider to be proportionate checks for this loan it would not have agreed to lend to Mr W.
  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Swift Sterlings lending  history with Mr W, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Swift Sterling should reasonably have seen that 
Ref: DRN62726893further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Swift Sterling should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  this point was reached by loan 5. 
I say this because:
Loan 5 was Mr Ws fifth loan from Swift Sterling in just over four months. He asked to 
borrow £300 only four days  after taking out loan 4. I think this should have put Swift 
Sterling on notice  that it was likely that Mr W was having problems managing his money. 
So I think it should have been  concerned that he wouldnt be able to repay the loan 
sustainably.
Mr W applied  for loan 5 within a few weeks after repaying loans 2 and 3 and whilst loan 4 
was still running. Mr W continued  to borrow from Swift  Sterling without  any significant 
break until he was unable to repay what he had borrowed  after taking out loan 8.
I think that Mr W lost out because Swift Sterling continued to provide borrowing from loan 
five onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr W had been borrowing 
from Swift  Sterling, was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ws ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 3 to 12. Mr W has had the benefit of the money 
so it is only fair that he pays it back and so Swift  Sterling can deduct the capital amount that 
was written off after the refund of interest  and charges  on the final loan.
putting things right  what Swift  Sterling  needs  to do
Swift Sterling should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 3 to 12 inclusive;
write off any interest and charges not yet paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
apply the refund to offset any capital  balance written off before paying  the balance  to 
Mr W.
Refund any adverse  information recorded  about  loans  3 and 4.
the number  of loans Mr W had taken with Swift Sterling and the total length of time hed 
been borrowing  from it means any information recorded about loans 5 to 12 is adverse.  
So all entries about these loans should  be removed from Mr Ws credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Swift Sterling to take off tax from this interest. Swift 
Sterling must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN62726894my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require MMP Financial (trading as Swift 
Sterling) to put things  right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6272689