K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that esure  Insurance Limited  hasnt  given him a fair valuation for his car 
following a claim on his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr P got a brand new car on a finance agreement  but four months  later the car was stolen. 
He made  a claim on his car insurance  policy  and esure said it would pay him the value of the 
car. It offered him £18,408. Mr P thought his car was worth more but he also thought he was 
entitled to a brand new replacement car under  his policy. 
The valuation was based on the average given by three different trade guides and esure 
said this was the fairest way to work out what the car was worth. It said that Mr P wasnt 
entitled to a new car under the policy because he wasnt  the owner of the car  his finance 
company was. 
Our investigator thought esures  offer was fair. He said Mr P wasnt  entitled to a replacement 
car under the policy because he wasnt the owner  of it. He thought esure  had followed our 
usual approach of looking  at prices  given by trade guides, and it had paid Mr P a fair price 
for his car. 
Mr P didnt agree. In summary he said it was unfair  that there was no chance for him to fully 
protect his car in any situation because he was the registered keeper but not the owner. He 
was also still unhappy with the valuation.  
Our investigator then obtained a valuation for Mr Ps car from a fourth trade guide which 
esure hadnt used.  This gave the highest valuation of any of the guides  and brought the 
average valuation  for the car up to £19,310.25. We asked both parties if theyd  be willing to 
resolve the complaint and agree to the new valuation.  Mr P still requested a final decision 
but esure agreed to the revised valuation. 
The case  was passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy  says that it will offer a brand new replacement car if he is the first registered  
keeper and owner of the car. As Mr P isnt the owner of the car, esure says he isnt entitled 
to a replacement.  Although  that might be the case, we would usually still consider it fair for a 
replacement to be offered  if the finance  company were happy to accept a replacement. 
Weve spoken  to Mr Ps previous finance company and it said their usual policy  isnt to 
accept a replacement   just cash settlements. So although esure didnt explore the 
possibility of a replacement, Mr P hasnt  lost out. This is because it seems  likely his finance  
company would have refused anyway. So Ive gone onto consider whether esure has offered 
a fair cash  settlement for the car. 
Since our involvement esure has agreed  to our recommendation to increase the initial  cash 
settlement to £19,310.25. But Mr P still thinks it is too low. 
Ref: DRN61157222This new valuation  was based on the average value given across four different trade guides 
 instead of the three esure originally used. The trade guides provided  valuations for the 
same make and model as Mr Ps car in good  condition and with similar specifications. There  
isnt an exact  formula  for calculating  the precise value of a car. But Im satisfied these guides 
provide a reasonably good  estimate of likely selling prices. 
All four guides produced different valuations, which is why its fairer to both Mr P and esure 
that we use an average  of all the valuations  this is £19,310.25. Mr P hasnt provided 
anything to demonstrate that this figure is either  unrealistic or unfair. So for that reason 
I think the new higher  settlement of £19,310.25 is fair and esure should pay Mr P the 
difference between  this and the settlement it has already paid of £18,408. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr P an additional  £902.85  (if it hasnt done  so already)  in settlement of his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6115722