K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs A a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs A took out a loan in 2002, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any discussions. But, on balance, I 
think its likely that Lloyds  made  Mrs A aware  the PPI was optional and that she chose  
to take it out. I say this because the loan document does show  the PPI as optional  
and it suggests  you have to actively make a choice about whether you take it. And I 
dont have strong evidence the PPI was not presented as optional. 
 Lloyds advised  Mrs A to have  PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The policy offered a benefit if Mrs A 
was made redundant. And it seems Mrs A was entitled  to no sick pay and doesnt 
appear to have had significant other  means  that could definitely have been relied on. 
Mrs A appeared  to have been eligible for the policy; and it seems also wouldnt have  
been affected by any significant exclusions within  the policy.
 Mrs A would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Mrs A. 
 I dont know what else was said at the time about the costs and benefits, but the costs 
of the policy  could have been  made  clearer on the loan form  for example it wasnt set 
out separately what the actual interest on the premiums was. But I dont think  the 
actual interest on the PPI was so much that it would have put Mrs A off taking it. And 
the actual overall monthly cost of the PPI (including interest)  was set out  so Mrs A 
would have known  what shed pay. I also dont  have any information to show  the PPI 
wasnt affordable for Mrs A. 
Ref: DRN69683632 Its possible that Lloyds didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover   but I cant  
see that Mrs A would have been significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Mrs A wasnt mis-sold  PPI by Lloyds.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6968363