K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly decided she was at fault for an 
accident when  she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
background
Ms A said she was in the left of two lanes on a roundabout that had the same marking  on 
them (exiting for route R). She said she was parked at traffic lights  when a car appeared in 
the lane to her right.  She said in trying to exit for route R, that car collided with her car whilst 
it was stationary, causing a small amount of damage. Ms A said the other driver  a police 
officer in an unmarked car  should  have been  in her lane if he wanted to take that exit. And 
in any event, he should have waited until the vehicles parked  at the lights had moved on. 
The other driver said Ms As car was to the left of his (in a lane also marked  for route R). He 
said she cut across his car - in order to get to the exit for route G - which  was further  round  
the roundabout. 
UKI looked at maps  of the roundabout. It decided that the other driver was in a lane that 
allowed him to take the exit for route  R or to continue around  the roundabout.  It thought  
Ms A was in a lane that was intended for cars exiting for route R. So shed  have had to cut 
across the other drivers lane and his correctly proceeding vehicle to get to route Gs exit. 
Our investigator was persuaded by Ms As account  of events. He didnt think  UKI had 
enough evidence  to say who was at fault for the accident. But in his view,  having looked at 
the maps, Ms A wasnt in the wrong  lane.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I said we dont 
decide which party is at fault for an accident.  Instead, we consider whether an insurer has 
reached a reasonable decision about liability, having  considered  all the available  evidence. 
I noted that there was no independent evidence about what  happened, such as CCTV 
coverage or witness statements. So I said UKI could only look at both drivers  accounts and 
the photos and aerial  view of the roundabout.
I didnt think Ms A could  show that she was parked at traffic lights  when  the other car 
collided with hers. From the other drivers  account,  both cars were in lanes marked  for
route R and were moving. He said Ms A moved to the right to continue round the 
roundabout. I didnt  think it was possible to say exactly  what happened. But I thought the 
maps of the roundabout were probably  the best indicator of it. 
I said UKIs notes showed that after its advisors looked at the maps, they thought Ms A 
should have been in the other drivers  lane if she wanted to take the exit for route G. It 
seemed Ms A told UKI that she thought the lane to her right was only for continuing round 
the roundabout. If that were the case,  I thought Ms A wouldnt have expected the other driver 
to be moving left for route R. So she could safely have continued travelling towards the exit 
for route G. But having looked at all the photos  and the aerial images of the roundabout, I 
thought it was reasonable for UKI to decide that Ms A was in the wrong lane for route G.  
I thought the road markings showed that cars in Ms As lane were meant to take the exit for 
route R. I thought it looked as though cars in the lane the other driver was in could either 
take the exit for route R or drive  further round the roundabout. I didnt think the lane 
Ref: DRN64648272markings showed the other driver  was in the wrong  lane for his exit. And I thought it would 
have been reasonable  for him to assume  Ms A would be taking the same exit as him. 
I said that under the policy, UKI had the right to decide whether to defend  or settle  any claim 
and wed only interfere  if we thought  it had acted unreasonably. Based on what  Id seen so 
far, I thought UKI had considered all the available evidence and made a reasonable decision 
about liability. I could  see why it didnt think it had a basis  on which to defend the other 
drivers claim. So I wasnt minded to uphold Ms As complaint.
I noted that Ms A had told the investigator  she wasnt happy  about the reduction in no claims 
discount UKI made as a result  of the accident.  I said as Ms A hadnt  complained  to UKI 
about that issue, we couldnt consider it. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. UKI accepted them.  Ms A said 
she didnt accept my findings  but made  no further comment.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither of the parties made  any substantive comment  about  my provisional  findings, I see 
no reason to depart from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6464827