K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy that the transfer he asked  LCC Trans-Sending Limited (trading as Small 
World Financial Services) to make, went to the wrong person. He wants  it to return  his 
money to him. 
Mr Vs complaint has been  brought, on his behalf,  by his mother, Ms R. For simplicity, I will 
refer to Mr V throughout my decision.  
background
Mr V wanted  to transfer some money to his grandmother,  who Ill refer to as VR, and who 
lives abroad. From  what hes told us, it seems  that Mr V was making  the transfer on behalf  of 
his mother as she couldnt do it herself. 
Mr V went  to a branch  of Small World  Financial  Services (SWFS) to make  the transfer. He 
wanted to use his mothers SWFS account as this contained all the necessary  bank  details 
for VR. But SWFS wouldnt  let him make  a transfer  from an account that wasnt his. It told 
him he would  need  to use his own account. 
Mr V says SWFS told him it could use the necessary details for VR from his mothers 
account to make the payment, but the actual transfer would need to be made from Mr Vs 
account. The payment was then made.  
Mr V says that a few days later he found out that the money hadnt reached  VR. When  he 
checked the receipt hed got from SWFS, he saw the name on it wasnt  VR. Instead the 
money had been  sent to someone Ill call VM. While the first name was the same as his 
grandmothers, the last name wasnt. 
Briefly, Mr V told us that when he tried to sort this out with SWFS, it said it was his mistake,  
but it would  try to get his money  back.  When this didnt happen, he complained. In short, 
SWFS said it had tried to retrieve the money, but this hadnt been successful. It also said 
Mr V had signed the payment instruction confirming the beneficiary  details were correct. 
SWFS pointed  out that it wasnt responsible  and couldnt refund the payment when Mr V had 
given it wrong payment  information. 
Mr V wasnt  happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked into it. In summary, she didnt  think SWFS had made an error or handled  this 
complaint unfairly.  Mr V didnt agree. So his case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did SWFS  act fairly  and reasonably when it didnt return the payment to Mr V? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
Ref: DRN62524762it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I would point out here that where  the evidence is contradictory (as some  of it is here),  I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Ill now turn to the payment Mr V wanted  to transfer  to VR. He told us his mother couldnt 
make the transfer  and he wanted to use her account with SWFS as it had VRs  details  in it. 
Quite naturally,  SWFS wouldnt allow him to use an account that didnt belong to him. 
Mr V says that the only details in his mothers account were for VR. But thats not quite right. 
Ive looked at his mothers account details. As well as making  payments  to VR, shed also 
made a payment to VM before. Clearly, Mr Vs mothers account didnt just contain VRs 
details. 
In any event. Mr V didnt need  to use the details  from his mothers  account. He already had 
an account with SWFS and, hed made  a transfer  from that account  to his grandmother VR 
before. So there was never any need to use his mothers account. 
In Mr Vs original complaint to us, he said SWFS  never asked him for the name of who the 
transfer payment  was going to. It only asked  him to confirm if the amount was right. But in 
his original complaint  to SWFS he said he specifically told it the name of the recipient, VR. 
On the other hand, SWFS say that its cashier  told Mr V the name  of the recipient  and asked 
him to confirm if it was correct, which he did. Mr V then signed the instruction form. Ive 
looked at this. This clearly shows, in prominent  block capital letters, the money was being  
paid to VM, not his grandmother VR. Mr Vs signature is five lines below this. 
Mr V has told us he was in a rush to leave the branch. He also told us he didnt  need  to 
check for any errors as the details being  used were from his mothers  account, and this only 
held the details of VR. But as above, Ive seen that his mothers  account had details for both 
VR and VM. 
As Ive also pointed out, Mr V already had his own account which had VRs details. In any 
event, none of this means that Mr V didnt have a responsibility  to check  the details were 
correct before he signed SWFSs payment form. 
I think its more likely than not that SWFS  did ask Mr V to confirm  if the name of the 
beneficiary was correct. Whether  he misheard the name, or whether he was distracted 
because he was in a rush to leave, I dont know. But he was given a form with the details 
clearly set out. He signed this form just below  the name of the beneficiary, VM. 
Ive looked at SWFSs terms and conditions. These  are quite clear. SWFS wont provide a 
refund for an incorrect payment, where the sender, Mr V, has given it the wrong payment 
information. That seems  to be the case  here. He signed the form which had the details of 
where his money  was going. Its not the fault of SWFS that, as he told us, he was in a rush 
to leave, and didnt check it. 
Ive also looked  at Mr Vs account with SWFS. As well as his mother  making  a payment to 
VM, I can see that Mr V had made several payments to VM. So, its very hard to accept that 
Mr V didnt know who the money was being sent to. The available evidence doesnt  
Ref: DRN62524763persuade me that SWFS made a mistake  here.  It follows that theres  no basis  for me to tell it 
to refund the transfer to Mr V. 
I can see that when  Mr V told SWFS  about the problem,  it said it would see what it could do 
to get it returned.  This is what I would expect it to do in such circumstances.  I can also see 
that SWFSs attempt to retrieve  Mr Vs money wasnt  successful. 
It suggested that he asked the recipient, VM, to pay the money back. His mother told our 
adjudicator that she didnt  know  VM. This seems strange given that shed previously sent a 
payment to VM. Mr V has also made  several  payments to VM. So, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for SWFS to suggest that he asked  her directly to return the money. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  SWFS hasnt acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  refusing  to 
refund this transfer to Mr V. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6252476