K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Zurich Insurance Plc poorly handled a claim under a social housing 
providers insurance  policy.
background
In May 2017  Mr O thought he had a leak in his apartment and investigations commenced. 
After several visits over around  five or six months, the leak couldnt be located although 
recommendations were  made for building management to fix some guttering issues. Mr O 
instructed a leak company who found the leak related to a pipe outside the bathroom. He 
wants Zurich to compensate his losses primarily linked  to loss of rent that he was getting 
from tenants in his apartment.
Zurich offered Mr O £500 compensation  (£350 and £150)  as it accepted  there had been 
delays with the claim. But Zurich said the policy only covered  loss of rent / temporary  
accommodation where the leaseholder (Mr O) occupies the property. And as he didnt 
occupy the property, no such benefit was payable. Mr O was unhappy  and wanted 
compensation for losses that were  inextricably linked  to his being  a landlord.
After considering all the information available our investigator didnt think  Zurich needed to 
do anything more. He pointed out that the policy was for a social  housing  provider intended  
to cover normal occupancy by leasehold owners  as set out in the policy document.  Our 
investigator said as Mr O was sub-letting  the apartment then it was for him to arrange  
suitable landlords insurance cover. And regarding the leak, the investigator  was satisfied 
that Zurich had carried out extensive  investigations  and found a possible source, but the leak 
was intermittent, and Zurich had taken reasonable steps throughout. He said the 
investigation instructed  by Mr O benefitted  from knowledge of all the investigations  Zurich  
had carried out. 
In summary,  the investigator was satisfied Zurich  had offered enough compensation and 
didnt need to do anything else.  
Mr O disagreed saying there  were  unacceptable  levels of neglect  and a lack of reasonable 
care, as demonstrated  by the fact that the company he instructed to find the leak did so on 
the first or second visit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue in this case  is the delay incurred  when dealing  with the claim. Having looked 
at the circumstances it was clear  Zurich instructed several inspections and this included 
other properties neighbouring Mr Os. Zurich had a duty to handle the claim promptly and 
fairly  it was clearly  a difficult leak to find and that did contribute  to the delay. A report from 
July 2017 concluded the leak was entering  via the soil pipe boxing.  In August a report  found 
that water  was leaking through defective sealant  on a bath, and a later inspection concluded 
a boxed area was visibly damp and had mould growth, but with no active leak. Whats  
apparent from all the information is that the leak at times was intermittent. But Zurich has 
accepted it could have done  more and offered £500  in total.  
Ref: DRN64964552Leaks can be difficult to find, and it was clearly  a process of eliminating possible causes. A 
number of professional  leak tracing companies  and plumbers were involved  at various 
stages, but none found  the cause of the leak. While the company Mr O instructed did find the 
leak, Im not persuaded that this alone  demonstrates Zurichs agents acted with a lack of 
care. So, like the investigator Im satisfied Zurichs compensation offer is a reasonable one in 
all the circumstances.
Ive considered Mr Os representations about his losses and compensation relating to the 
tenant who occupied  the property. The insurance  policy is one that covers the leasehold 
owners of apartments  in a block under one main policy,  and each unit has cover  as 
described in the policy. Mr O was acting  as a landlord as he rented out the complete unit 
while he resided  elsewhere. The policy he needed to cover his interests as a landlord, such  
as lost rent, is a specific landlords policy  there was limited  cover on his policy  in so far as 
he needed to remain an occupier to benefit,  which he did not. So, Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable of Zurich  to refuse  any payment in relation to Mr Os losses  as a landlord.
my final decision
I am aware  that Zurich Insurance Plc has made  an offer to pay £500. I conclude that such an 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Zurich  Insurance  Plc 
should pay Mr O £500 (less any amount already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6496455