K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the information  that is shown  on his TransUnion International UK 
Limited credit file.
background
Mr M complained to TransUnion last year about  a default that was shown on his credit file 
and he complained about it again  earlier this year. TransUnion said in its final response  letter  
in May 2019  that the data provider had confirmed that the information  recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file was correct - and that TransUnion wasnt authorised to amend or remove the 
record and that it was required to record a default for six years. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  believe 
that TransUnion had done anything wrong or acted unreasonably.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the data 
provider has confirmed that he doesnt owe it any money and that under the Prescription and 
Limitations (Scotland) Act 1973 a default should  be removed from a credit  file after five 
years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit reference agencies, such as TransUnion, store information thats provided to them by 
lenders and other data providers. Its the data provider that tells the credit reference 
agencies what to record. And any complaint by a customer about  the information  that's 
recorded on their credit  file needs to be made to the data provider that provided  the 
information  not to the credit reference agency  thats recorded it.
Mr M has complained about a default  from August 2013 thats recorded  on his TransUnion 
credit file relating  to an unpaid utility bill for £141.96.  He says that he doesnt owe any more 
to that utility company and hes provided an e-mail  from it which  says that he doesnt owe it 
any money.
But TransUnion has checked  with the utility company and it has told TransUnion that it 
registered a default in August 2013  because of an outstanding debt owed by Mr M of 
£141.96. And I consider that TransUnion is acting  fairly and reasonably in showing that 
information on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M says that any default  information  should only be recorded on his credit file for five 
years but its standard practice for defaults  to stay on a credit  file for at least  six years. And 
Im not persuaded that TransUnion  shouldve  removed  the default  from Mr Ms credit file 
after five years.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration about the default and sympathise with him for the 
difficulties that hes being caused.  But it seems that the data provider is providing 
inconsistent information  to TransUnion and Mr M about the debt. TransUnion isnt 
responsible for that and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
Ref: DRN68652262me to require it to remove the default  from Mr Ms credit file  or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint. I suggest  that Mr M complains to the data provider about the 
inconsistent information  that its provided  and require it to correct any errors which  should  
then be reported  to the credit reference  agencies. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865226