K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have a whole of life policy administered by The Royal London Mutual  
Insurance (Royal  London). They have complained about the performance  and surrender 
value of the policy, following a recent review. 
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a reviewable whole of life policy in 1994. It was set up on a maximum 
basis and had an initial sum assured of £38,000.  The policy included a waiver of premium.  
The policy was reviewed  in 2009 and 2014 where it failed the reviews  both times. This 
meant that the premiums being paid at the time were not sufficient to maintain that level of 
cover. In 2014,   Mr and Mrs L did not respond to the letter Royal  London sent explaining that 
the review had failed.  And so Royal London continues  to take the same  level of premium 
and decreased the sum assured. 
The policy was reviewed  again in 2019, where it again failed. This prompted  Mr and Mrs L to 
contact Royal London to enquire about the surrender value of the policy.  After  being told that 
it was £487, Mr and Mrs L surrendered the policy but raised  a complaint about the low value 
and general performance  of the policy. 
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view that it couldnt  
be upheld. She confirmed with Royal London that the reviews had been carried out correctly  
and in line with its terms and conditions. There was no evidence that persuaded her that the 
review calculations were incorrect. She also felt that the surrender value was correct and 
went on to explain why it may be so low despite  Mr and Mrs L having the policy  in place for 
so long. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy  and as no agreement  was reached,  the case  has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, its important to point  out that as Royal London arent responsible  for the sale of the 
whole of life policy to Mr and Mrs L. So, I cant consider whether this policy, set up on 
maximum basis, was suitable for them. Nor can I consider what information they would have 
been provided at the point of sale or whether they were  aware  of exactly  what they were 
taking out.
What I can look at is whether the policy has been administered properly. This includes 
whether the reviews took place correctly  and that the settlement value  has been calculated  
correctly. Having looked at everything that has been  provided, I am satisfied it has. 
The policy was a reviewable whole of life policy. As set out in the policy  terms and 
conditions, reviews would have to take place at specified times during the policy to check 
whether the amount being paid into the policy was enough to maintain the cover  it provided  
(the sum assured).  
Ref: DRN66070722These reviews took place  correctly and when they were scheduled for in 2009,  2014 and 
2019. I appreciate  that when these reviews  failed, the level or premium increases or 
reductions in the sum assured may appear significant. However, Royal London  doesnt  have  
any control over that. 
The cost of living increases as one gets older  and this is one of the factors  that is taken into 
account when  reviewing the policy and calculating the increases/decreases  required. The 
criteria of the calculations  are largely  the same industry  wide and so are not specific  to Royal 
London. I can see that Mr and Mrs L also paid for the Waiver of Premium benefit out of their 
monthly premium. This benefit means that the policy premiums  would  have been  paid for   
Mr and Mrs L, in the event of ill health. This also meant that less of the monthly  premium  
was going towards  the cover or invested portion. 
Having reviewed the policy documentation,  the type of reviewable policy Mr and Mrs L had 
was set up on a Maximum cover basis. This meant  that his policy  would give the highest 
level of life cover for the chosen premium.  And this was why Mr Ls premiums were  mostly 
going towards paying for the life cover. And only a relatively small portion of his premiums  
were being  invested.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs L, but ultimately this is the nature of these 
types of policies. An increase in the premiums  will always  be required if the policy  is set up 
on a maximum  basis  and the amount invested  will be a small portion.
I am therefore satisfied  that Royal London  had carried out the reviews  correctly and the 
amount that Mr and Mrs L received after surrendering the policy was correct.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6607072