K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that the maturity proceeds Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid 
them for their endowment  policy  werent in line with the projected values they were sent the 
year before.  As a result, they say they were  disappointed with the maturity value. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a 25 year endowment mortgage in 1993. Over the years, Aviva sent 
them a number of letters warning them that there was likely to be a shortfall in the maturity  
value of their endowment  policy.  
The final one of these  letters, in February 2017, warned them again of a probable  shortfall 
and gave three estimated maturity values, based on different possible investment returns. 
The midpoint estimate was a value of £37,900 on maturity, based on an annual growth rate 
of 4.5%. 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy matured in April 2018.  The actual maturity value was £37,600. This 
was topped up by Avivas  policyholder  promise to £40,800. 
Mr C complained. He said that the actual performance of Avivas With-Profits  Fund  over the 
final year was 6.7%. As this was substantially higher  than the midpoint projected rate, it 
would therefore  follow that the maturity value of the policy should have been higher.  But in 
fact, it was slightly lower than the midpoint.  
Aviva wrote to Mr C several times to explain what had happened.  It said it hadnt  done 
anything wrong, but several factors had led to the final value being slightly  different from the 
midpoint projection.  It said that its letters had also pointed out that the projected maturity  
values were just estimates,  and werent guaranteed.  
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Avivas explanation.  So he asked us to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr C asked for a final decision from 
an ombudsman. He made the following  points:
The 4.5% midpoint  was the wrong comparison,  as the fund had performed much  
better than this.
The February 2017 projections letter had specifically said that Aviva  had improved  
the accuracy of its projections. So it was reasonable for him to have relied  on them.  
In recent  years, the growth rate had exceeded  the midpoint and the projected 
maturity value had increased each year. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs C, but Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Below, Ill explain why I dont think 
Aviva has done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  has evolved a little over time. But in essence, it comes  down to 
their belief that either the February 2017  projection,  or the final maturity value, were  wrong.  
So Ive considered whether either  of these were the case. 
Ref: DRN60621312First, Mr C isnt complaining about  the shortfall in the value of his policy  compared with its 
target value  at the outset. Theres no dispute that he was fully aware of this likelihood  and 
had been sent many letters about it over the years. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Aviva acted  incorrectly in the way it calculated the final 
maturity value. I say this for completeness,  as Mr C originally  suggested  that this was his 
complaint. He has more  latterly told us that his concern is about the projection. 
I appreciate that Mr C has had several explanations of the way in which the fund works. So I 
dont think its necessary to go into much  detail about this. But in short,  returns  are unlikely 
exactly to match market  performance, as they depend on actuarial assessments and the 
addition of bonuses, which act to smooth  the returns. Neither do individual  policyholders  
returns match the overall With-Profits Funds  return, as this is just part of the overall 
calculation. 
I think its worth noting, that, although  the lack of transparency in exactly  how values are 
calculated can be frustrating, these  funds are subject to a number of rules  set by the 
regulator to ensure policyholders are treated fairly.  As part of this, Aviva  has an independent  
With-Profits committee, which oversees its bonus decisions. 
Bonuses on endowment policies are applied  retrospectively. Theres also a terminal bonus  
at maturity. So theres no way of knowing  for sure what  youll get until the end. Mr C says 
that the February 2017 letter led him to believe that hed get more  back  from the policy than 
was ultimately the case. I can see why Mr C feels that, at that late stage in the life of the 
policy, the estimate should have been  more accurate  especially as Aviva mentioned in the 
letter that theyd  improved the accuracy  of their projections. I can also see that, over recent 
years, better fund performance  had led to estimates being revised upwards. This probably 
led to Mr C feeling more  optimistic about a further uplift, as markets continued to perform  
well. 
But the letter  did nonetheless make clear  that the values  were only indicative,  and not 
guaranteed. So I dont  think  it was reasonable to infer that better fund performance than a 
comparator over the final year would definitely produce a higher maturity value. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration that arguments in the course of his complaint have 
centred around  the 4.5% illustrative return. Mr C feels, as I understand it, that this is a false  
comparison, masking a greater shortfall. He thinks a better comparison is with the 6.7% that 
the With-Profits Fund  returned in 2017.  But I dont think  this is fair. The three  comparison 
points in the letter were based on growth  over the life of the policy, not just in the final year. 
Aviva has confirmed Mr and Mrs Cs average annual return  was 5.1%, compared with the 
With-Profits Funds return over the same period of 5.6%. I appreciate this is still above 4.5%, 
but for the reasons discussed above,  the final maturity value was never going exactly to 
match the projection. 
In summary,  Ive seen  no evidence that Aviva acted  incorrectly in the way it calculated the 
maturity value of Mr and Mrs Cs policy. And whilst a more accurate estimate would have  
been desirable, I dont think it did anything wrong  in the projections sent to Mr and Mrs C 
either. I think  Avivas provided what I consider to be a reasonable explanation of the factors 
in the background affecting  maturity  values and preventing precise projections. So Im not 
going to direct Aviva to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN60621313my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6062131