K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  him mortgage payment protection  insurance,
(MPPI), policies.
background
The circumstances leading to the Mr Ks complaint, together with my initial findings, were  set 
out in my provisional  decision dated  6 December 2018, a copy of which is attached.
Neither Mr K nor Lloyds  responded  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection  insurance on 
our website. Ive followed  this in Mr Ks case.
As neither party made any further comments or sent us any new information about the 
complaint since it was issued, I see no reason to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN62823032complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him mortgage  payment protection  insurance,
(MPPI), policies.
background
Mr K took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy  in 2002 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
The sale took place during a meeting. The initial premiums for this insurance were about £35 a 
month. And following  a successful claim  it would have paid out over £350 a month for up to 12 
months. Later that year, during another meeting, Mr K took out a further advance on his mortgage and 
also further MPPI. The additional premiums were initially about £8.50  and the monthly  benefits, 
following a successful  claim,  would have been increased  by over £90 pounds a month.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint  should be upheld.  As Mr K disagreed the 
matter has come to me to decide. Although  overall  I agree with the adjudicators recommendation,  
Ive explained the reasons for my decision in more detail. So I find that its fair and reasonable for 
Mr K and Lloyds to have an opportunity to comment  on my reasoning or supply further information 
before I issue  any final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on our 
website. Ive taken this into account in reaching  my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr K but Ive provisionally  decided not to
uphold his complaint. I explain why below.
As Ive said above, Ive considered everything that Mr K has said to us. But Ive concluded that his 
main complaint revolves around the fact that as a child he had been diagnosed with a particular  
medical condition, (the Condition), which  was on-going. And Mr K says that this made  the policy 
unsuitable for him. I will deal with this point first.
The terms  and conditions of the MPPI restricted the insureds ability  to successfully  claim for time off 
work because  of a pre-existing medical  condition. The definition of such  a condition  included a 
medical condition of which  the insured  was aware at the time he or she bought the policy. Im satisfied 
that the Condition falls within the definition. I find that the drafting of this restriction in the policies was 
ambiguous. However Ive concluded that the more  restrictive  interpretation meant that, if the 
Condition reoccurred  at any time during  the first 24 months that the policies were in place, the MPPI 
would never pay for periods  for which Mr K was off work because of the Condition, regardless of 
when these periods were.  Further the policies  didnt  pay out for the first 60 days of any period of 
absence from work because  of accident or sickness.
Mr K has sent us evidence showing that, from time to time, he has been absent from work because of 
illnesses which may have  arisen from or been made worse by the Condition.  But in answer to our 
enquiries he said that at the time he took out the policies  he had no health problems. And he has also 
told us that he takes steps which control the Condition.  
I think  that Lloyds recommended to Mr K that he take out the policies. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps  to ensure  that they were suitable  for him. Lloyds also had to give Mr K clear, fair 
and not-misleading  information so that he could make  an informed decision whether he wanted to 
take the insurance or not, in the light of his circumstances  at the time. As the sales took place  during 
meetings a long time ago I dont know what Lloyds asked Mr K or said to him. So I have to make my 
decision on the information that I do have.
Ref: DRN62823033I dont know whether Lloyds pointed out the exclusion  relating to pre-existing medical  conditions to Mr 
K or whether it asked him if he had any such condition, as it ought to have. Mr K says that Lloyds 
didnt do either of these things. (Although he has also said that he did tell Lloyds about  the Condition 
during the mortgage evaluation stage.  So it appears that there was some discussion about  this at the 
relevant time.) But I dont  think that had Lloyds done  everything that it ought to have  this would have 
changed its recommendations or Mr Ks decisions to take the policies. I say this because  I find its 
reasonable to conclude that, bearing in mind what Mr K has said about  his health at the time he took 
the MPPI, Mr K wouldnt have thought it likely that he would have to be off work for more than 60 days  
at any one time because of the Condition. And, as claims for accidents or other illnesses werent  
limited in the same  way and the policies also covered unemployment,  there were  still many other 
reasons for Mr K not being able to work which potentially  could have been the subject of successful 
claims. So I think that Mr K would have  felt that the MPPI was useful.
 Mr K says the main reasons  for his being off work  over the years has been because he suffered from 
the Condition. But that comment  is made with hindsight. It doesnt affect how he felt about  his state of 
health at the time of the meetings when he took out the insurance. 
Mr K says that he would of course have  required the Condition to be covered in any policy  he took 
out because it remains his biggest physical weakness  and highest risk of illness. But that is how 
matters stand now. At the time he took out the MPPI, even knowing that he had been diagnosed with 
the Condition as a child, Mr K wouldnt have known what accidents or other illnesses might have 
affected him in the future. And, although it would obviously have been preferable  if he could have 
taken a policy  to cover the Condition  as well, Im satisfied that its limited  exclusion wasnt sufficient to 
make the policies  sufficiently  unattractive to Mr K at the time of the sales to stop him buying them. I 
say this because of what he says was his view of his health at the time of the meetings.
The Condition  wasnt specifically written out of his policies as Mr K claims. The terms and conditions  
of the policies that Lloyds offered with mortgages at the time that they were  sold to Mr K, limited the 
circumstances in which  an insured could claim  for a pre-existing medical  condition generally.  
Mr K also complains that Lloyds didnt  carry out a risk assessment of his needs generally. And 
certainly Lloyds hasnt  sent us anything  to show that it did. So I dont know what steps  it took to see if 
the policies were  suitable for him. But this doesnt affect  my decision as I find that the policies were  
suitable in any event. I say this because:
Mr K was eligible for the policies;
Subject to my discussion about pre-existing medical conditions above,  Mr K wasnt
caught by any of the policies main restrictions and limitations - such  as those affecting
someone on a fixed-term contract;
The policies  were reasonably priced by reference both to the benefits  that they offered
and to other policies available  in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to
make me think that Mr K couldnt afford the premiums. In any event had he later thought
that he couldnt  afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any
time;
Mr K had sickness and unemployment benefit from his employers. And he had some
savings and was in a share scheme. But the MPPI would have  paid out in addition to his
other means leaving  those available to meet his other expenses while he was unable to
work. So I find that the policies would have been of use to him. I say this particularly
bearing in mind the serious consequences that could  have arisen had Mr K been unable
to make his mortgage repayments which  were secured  on his home;
I find no reason  to think that Mr K didnt know that the policies were optional or that he didnt
choose to take them. He hasnt raised  this as part of his complaint. And Ive seen his MPPI
Ref: DRN62823034application forms. These were not part of his mortgage application  or further  advance  application. I 
find this made it clear that the MPPI  was a separate product.  
I dont know what happened during  the meetings when the policies were  sold.  But as Ive concluded 
above that they were suitable for Mr K, even taking into account the Condition, I think that he would 
still have taken  them  had Lloyds  adequately assessed the policies  suitability and given him all the 
information that it ought  to have. This means that Mr K hasnt lost out because of anything  that may 
have been wrong with Lloyds sales process. So theres nothing I require  Lloyds to put right.
Although Mr K has made several  other points all of which Ive taken into account, I consider that in 
writing this Ive covered  all those that have a material  impact on my decision.  However I would  just 
confirm to Mr K that in making my decision  I do have to take into account  the relevant law as well as 
many other  matters, such as industry guidelines  and good practice. But the fact that Lloyds, (and of 
course many other financial businesses), has been found to have mis-sold payment protection 
insurance in other cases isnt relevant to my decision. Im required to, and indeed have,  considered 
the facts of this particular  complaint alone.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given above my provisional  decision is that I do not uphold this
complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282303