K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about insurance policies  sold in 1996, 1997 and 1999 for a mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs P say National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the policies. 
Mr and Mrs P have  complained they should have  been advised that they did not need the 
policies but instead NatWest led them to believe  the policies were  necessary as security  for 
the bank as part of the mortgage agreements.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs P and NatWest a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold  the 
complaint. I said Id consider anything else Mr and Mrs P and NatWest  wanted to give me by 
15 June 2019   later extended to 7 July 2019.  Mr and Mrs P and NatWest replied with 
further points  and information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I summarised much of the available evidence in my provisional decision.  I wont repeat all 
that here,  as Ive since also sent copies of relevant  documentation to Mr and Mrs P.
After a sale that began in 1996, Mr and Mrs P took out £324,000 of Level Term Assurance 
and £100,000 of Decreasing  Term Assurance.  The policies started in January 1997  and 
would pay out a lump  sum on death or serious  illness.
Mr and Mrs P applied  for Decreasing Term Assurance of £60,000  in April 1997 and 
£400,000 in 1999. The policies  would pay out a lump sum on death only.
The policies were  taken  out in connection  with mortgage borrowing. As regards the length of 
their terms,  what they paid and how this reduced  or stayed  level over time,  Ive no reason  to 
think the policies  werent set up each time to match mortgage borrowing Mr and Mrs P had.
Mr and Mrs Ps view is they didnt want the policies but it wasnt made  clear  that they didnt 
have to take them. They believe they took the policies only because NatWest  led them to 
think the mortgage terms required this. Theyve  said their NatWest  adviser misled them  
about this at a 1996 meeting. Below  Ive considered first the January 1997 sales.
From what  Ive seen, life cover was a requirement  of the borrowing to which  those first two 
policies were linked.  Also, at that time life cover  policies  had to meet  NatWests  approval and 
the mortgage terms say NatWest would say if a policy wasnt  suitable  for its purposes.
Mr and Mrs P had existing life cover through their work pensions that wouldve covered part 
of the borrowing (only a small part for Mrs P). There is nothing from the time to say that this 
cover was or wasnt approved by NatWest  as suitable for its purposes. I dont think I can say 
now whether this cover was or wasnt of a kind NatWest wouldve approved. But there are 
some reasons to think the cover might  not have been acceptable  to NatWest.
Firstly the cover wasnt used to cover any part of the borrowing whereas NatWest at the time 
did advise the use of existing endowments. This use of existing  policies  and policies of a 
Ref: DRN67306272kind routinely used in connection with lending - does  make it look like NatWest  reduced what  
it was recommending to take account  of existing cover where appropriate.  So this doesnt  
support the idea that NatWest inflated the value  of what was being sold without reason. 
Secondly, pension  benefits payable at the discretion of scheme trustees  wouldnt  easily  fit 
with NatWest having first claim on the money  or assuming, as attorney, powers over the 
cover  which are powers the mortgage  conditions  said NatWest  might want  over policies 
used in connection with its lending.
It is apparent too that NatWest noted  down the value of the pension  cover.  So NatWest 
didnt simply overlook it. This also means  that when Mr and Mrs P took the policies they did 
so having been asked  about - and so having  had brought to their minds   that existing cover.
I think this is significant  in the light of the Customer Priorities and Recommendations forms 
for a meeting NatWest had with Mr and Mrs P. These say loan protection - clearing loans/ 
mortgages in the event  of death or serious illness - was Mr and Mrs Ps highest priority need 
before the meeting and remained so afterwards. In my view this suggests Mr and Mrs P 
wanted protection to clear the loans in case of death  or serious  illness and agreed with the 
adviser that this was a priority. And it seems they did so, and agreed  to take the policies  they 
took, with knowledge of their existing cover.
Also if the recommended  policies and endowments had together repaid Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage on the death, I dont think the pension life cover payments that wouldve also been  
paid wouldve left the survivor with an excess of insurance funds in the circumstances. So I 
dont think recommending polices to cover  the whole mortgage  left Mr or Mrs P over-insured.
I say this bearing in mind  that Mr and Mrs P had significant other means  available  to them 
with which  to repay lending if they wished. But they were taking on a significant  additional  
liability. With this in mind, taking corresponding cover to repay the mortgage on death  would 
leave their other means available for other  purposes. Also its noteworthy that to the extent 
to which  Mr and Mrs P chose to borrow to fund the property purchase rather than drawing on 
their existing assets, Mr and Mrs P chose  to leave those other assets intact  or undrawn. With 
this in mind,  it doesnt look like they wouldve  found the idea of using those assets to repay 
mortgage lending  on death preferable to paying  for affordable insurance  that could repay the 
lending and protect those other assets.
In light of all Ive said above, and taking everything  into account, I think  that, insofar  as any 
of the life cover wasnt a requirement of NatWests  lending criteria (and I cant say for sure it 
wasnt all needed) Mr and Mrs P most  likely wanted the life cover  the policies provided.  
Mr and Mrs P have  said theyd have no issue with the life cover if their pensions couldnt be 
used. But they say they didnt need  serious illness cover as they could take income  solely as 
dividend from their business - which wouldve continued to run without them  being  salaried. 
They say any loan repayment risk was related to the companys health, not theirs.
Theyve also pointed  out that the priorities form grouped loan cover for serious illness and 
death together. So when  agreeing this was their top priority, Mr and Mrs P didnt - and 
couldnt - say on that form whether  they meant life cover or serious illness  cover  or both. 
Theyve said this inclusive  character of the loan protection  causes them most disquiet.
Ref: DRN67306273They also point out that on the questionnaire they signed later,  in answer  to why the policy  
is considered necessary, NatWest didnt mention serious illness  cover but wrote: To ensure 
family have  sufficient funds to repay  borrowing in the event of death  during 15 yr term.
So Ive considered whether what I have overall  supports the conclusion the serious  illness 
benefit was misrepresented and sold to Mr and Mrs P as an inclusive part of the policies 
they were taking rather than as a separate benefit that they had a choice  about  taking. 
Notes made on a Financial Planning for Loan Protection form NatWest  completed before the 
above questionnaire was signed do specifically and separately refer to serious illness cover 
and the rationale  for it. But Im mindful that Mr and Mrs P might not have seen its contents, 
so I dont put the same weight on it as I do the questionnaire they signed. 
That said,  I dont think the absence of reference to serious illness cover in the answer on the 
questionnaire Ive quoted  above necessarily means that NatWest didnt recommend this 
cover to Mr and Mrs P as a separate benefit  that could be added for maximum or fullest  
protection, like NatWests Financial Planning notes say it did. Also I think it unlikely the two 
line box on the questionnaire contained, or was supposed to contain, all that NatWest had 
discussed about the policies or all of the thinking behind its recommendation for them.
Ive considered too the policy illustrations NatWest  produced before the questionnaire and 
financial planning form were completed. Their likely purpose was to present Mr and Mrs P 
with relevant details  of the proposed policies - including costs  - before applications were  
finalised. Ive no particular reason to suppose these illustrations wouldnt have been given to 
Mr and Mrs P. In any case, I think its reasonable to suppose that NatWest discussed  these  
illustrations with Mr and Mrs P.
 
The illustrations show the premium payable for the recommended policies, broken down into 
a basic premium and an Additional Premium for combined serious  illness benefit. So the 
cost of serious illness cover was stated separately as a separate  cost. Also Additional  
seems to imply something extra that is added.  So, like the notes of NatWests  advice made  
on its Financial Planning form, there is a suggestion here that the serious illness  cover  was a 
separate cover Mr and Mrs P had a choice  about  including or adding.
With all this in mind, given the additional  cost of the serious illness  benefit  was significant 
and not trivial, if, as I think likely,  a discussion took place about these illustrations, it seems 
unlikely Mr and Mrs P wouldve agreed  to go ahead with policies that included this additional  
benefit if they hadnt seen  some benefit  or value at the time in having  the cover  it provided. 
Even if I assume these  illustrations werent discussed in this particular instance, its apparent 
such illustrations - routinely produced for policies like this before  applications  were  finalised - 
did, where both serious illness cover  and life cover were included, set out the cost of each  
separately. This tends to undermine  the notion  that NatWests priorities form, and the way it 
listed loan cover for death or serious illness together, is evidence of or was part of a 
tendency not to present  serious illness cover as a distinct and separate benefit. Overall  Im 
not persuaded NatWest misrepresented the serious illness cover in this way in this case.
Neither the April 1997 nor the 1999 policy, as far as Ive seen, had serious  illness cover. So 
this, again, doesnt support the idea that such cover  was routinely included in policies.
I take into account what Mr and Mrs P have  said about this being  an advised sale - and I 
accept they likely relied on what NatWest told them in person and may not have scrutinised 
Ref: DRN67306274the mortgage booklet in detail. The booklet  indicated that what  was required was cover to 
repay the mortgage in full if any party died. I dont think it offers  evidence  that the serious 
illness cover  was misrepresented during the sale. Mr and Mrs P also say the commission 
payable provided  a significant  incentive  for NatWest to make  a sale.  That may be so. But it 
doesnt mean the policies were, or the serious  illness cover was, mis-sold in this case.
Taking everything into account,  giving due weight to what I have, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me NatWest  misled Mr and Mrs P into believing they had to take serious illness 
cover as a part of the loan protection they had to take  or as part of the life cover they 
wanted. I think they most likely agreed to the cover because they saw value in having  it. It 
may well be that Mr and Mrs Ps ability to draw  income wouldnt have been affected by 
serious illness. But I still think  Mr and Mrs P mightve thought a serious illness could  lead to 
a change in their circumstances in which they would value having their mortgage  cleared. 
The serious illness cover  was an affordable insurance offering that prospect.
In the light of all Ive said above,  I dont  think the advice to take the January 1997 policies 
was unsuitable  and I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about those policies.
Turning to the policies taken in April 1997  and in 1999, these policies didnt, as Ive already 
said, include  serious illness cover  from what Ive seen. NatWest has said life cover was a 
mortgage condition  in April 1997  as part of a blanket  internal policy, and terms it sent us that 
dont make this clear might date from later in 1997. Ive nothing  to support this point about a 
blanket policy. But the mortgage  offer itself does suggest that life cover  was a condition of 
that lending. NatWest says that in 1999 a condition for life cover might have applied  at the 
banks discretion (rather  than routinely) and it thinks it did apply in this case because  the 
1999 policy was assigned to the bank. But Im not persuaded that I have enough to say the 
1999 policy was something required by the lending at that time. 
That said,  I have very little information about the circumstances of the sale of the April 1997 
or 1999 policies   for example how they came to be arranged, whether NatWest gave any 
advice or what was said. Ive no testimony from Mr and Mrs P specific to those sales and 
nothing from the time of those sales that shows Mr and Mrs P were misled. Bearing  all that 
in mind, and taking into account  what  Ive already said in connection with the sales of the 
earlier policies, what I have isnt enough overall  to persuade me that NatWest mis-sold the 
two later policies or that Mr and Mrs P only took them because of something  NatWest did 
wrong. So Im not persuaded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about those policies.
Im grateful  to NatWest and Mr and Mrs P for their patience during our consideration of this 
matter and for their prompt  responses  to our inquiries.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6730627