K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved  his credit 
card application  and later increased his credit limit from £1,000 to £2,000. 
Background
Mr P applied online for a Capital One credit card in February 2016. In the application,  Mr P 
said his income was £30,600 and he had been  living at his rented address for around eight 
years. Capital One completed a credit  search and assessed the information available. 
Capital One approved Mr Ps credit card application  with a credit  limit of £1,000.  
In December 2017 the credit limit was increased from £1,000 to £2,000. In April 2018 Mr P 
missed a payment.  After  that point,  further  payments werent  made. The last payment made 
was in September 2018. The credit card was closed by Capital One due to the arrears. 
Mr P complained in October 2018 but Capital One didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly.  Mr P 
went on to refer his complaint  to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator.  He thought 
Capital One had lent responsibly  and didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P asked to appeal  
so his complaint  has been referred  to me to make a decision. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has sent us details  of his other  credit along  with an up to date copy of his credit  file. Ive 
considered this along with the information  Capital One has provided to show what it knew  
about Mr P when he applied for the credit  card and when it later decided to approve  the 
credit limit increase. 
When lenders look at any application to borrow money they need to make sure there are 
proportionate checks in place. The checks should  ensure  that the any credit  thats  approved 
is affordable and sustainable  for the borrower. Theres  no set list of checks  a lender must 
complete and its up to each business to decide  how it wants to approach assessing 
applications. But Id expect a lender to look at a borrowers credit  file, the information 
provided in their application  and what they know about the applicant.  
In this case, Mr P told Capital One he had an income of £30,600 and rented his home.  
Capital One has provided evidence to show it carried out a credit  search  and found no 
serious adverse  information. Capital One did find that Mr P had other credit but thought he 
could afford  the credit  card limit of £1,000  as well. 
In his complaint  Mr P says that the information  on his credit file should  have  shown that a 
credit card wasnt  affordable. Mr P has provided  a recent copy. But the information  Ive seen 
doesnt show that Mr P had lots of adverse credit. I can see Mr P had some  issues with a 
utility provider around this time but Im satisfied Capital One took that into account when 
looking at his application. 
From the information available, Im satisfied the decision to approve Mr Ps credit card limit 
of £1,000 was reasonable.  
Ref: DRN60610972Mr P also says that the decision to increase his credit limit from £1,000 to £2,000 was 
irresponsible. But, in line with what  Ive said above, I havent found that Capital One lent 
irresponsibly. It again checked Mr Ps credit  file and didnt find any new adverse credit. 
Mr Ps credit  card had been handled  well to that point  and in the five months before the 
decision to increase his credit limit Mr P made payments considerably  in excess of the 
minimum, at one point paying  £940.  
Capital One also contacted Mr P before his credit limit was increased and gave him the 
option of leaving  it at £1,000. 
I understand Mr P feels his credit card formed part of a larger problem, but Im satisfied 
Capital Ones decision to increase his credit  limit was reasonable and that it completed  
proportionate checks before deciding to proceed. 
Mr P has asked  for the default  to be removed from his credit file. But as I havent found  
Capital One lent irresponsibly  Im unable to tell it to remove the default or adverse 
information reported. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded that Capital One lent irresponsibly. 
As a result, Im not upholding  Mr Ps complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6061097