K820x#14complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the cost of her home  insurance taken out through 
Countrywide Principal  Services  Limited.  Ms L says she has been overcharged for many  
years.  
background
Ms L, in 2006 arranged  her mortgage through Countrywide Principal  Services  Limited 
(Countrywide). When arranging her mortgage,  buildings  insurance was a requirement, so 
the adviser recommended Ms L take out home  insurance provided by Insurer  A. The 
adviser recommended Ms L take out separate buildings insurance and contents insurance. 
Ms L accepted the recommendations and went ahead with the insurance  provided by 
Insurer A.
In 2018, after Ms Ls daughter started  to organise Ms Ls finances,  Ms L considered  she was 
paying too much for her home insurance compared to the amount her daughter  was paying.
Because of the difference in cost,  Ms L complained to Countrywide. Ms L says she should 
be refunded some of the cost of the insurance she has paid over the years.
Countrywide explained it sold the home insurance to Ms L, but the policy was underwritten  
by Insurer A  and Insurer A was responsible for setting the price each year. So if Ms L was 
unhappy with the cost that was for Insurer A to answer.
Unhappy with the response, Ms L referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought Countrywide hadnt done  
anything wrong. They  thought Ms L needed  home  insurance and Countrywides 
recommendation was therefore suitable, as it provided Ms L with buildings and contents  
cover. They  also considered Countrywide  wasnt responsible for setting the price  each year,  
and any concerns Ms L had about the cost increasing needed to be directed to Insurer  A.
Ms L responded explaining that she trusted Countrywide and thought she was getting a 
competitive rate which Countrywide stated within the renewal documents  each year.  So 
Ms L thought Countrywide was responsible and should refund some  of the extra  she 
considered she had paid over the years.
Our investigator thought the renewals  didnt say that Countrywide were offering the best 
price or that Ms L had to renew with Insurer A. They considered the renewals gave Ms L the 
option to engage with Countrywide or cancel the policy  if Ms L wasnt happy with the price  
that was being offered. 
As Ms L disagreed, and as the matter hasnt  been  resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN60184802what cant I look at?
First, I would like to make it clear  to Ms L, Countrywide wasnt  responsible for setting the 
cost of the insurance, either at the point the policy was sold to her, or at renewal each year.  
That was the responsibility of the underwriter/insurer  of the policy   Insurer  A. Insurer  A 
would have assessed the potential risk of insuring  Ms Ls property based  on a number of 
things, and from that determine the cost of the insurance each year. 
If Ms L has any concerns  about the cost of the policy and considers she was treated unfairly 
by Insurer A, she would need  to complain to them in the first instance.
So within this decision, I wont be deciding if the price offered to Ms L for the insurance was 
fair.
what can I look at?
I can look at Countrywides involvement when it sold the policy to Ms L in 2006  and also the 
role it had in regard to the renewals each year.
the sale
Countrywide sold Ms L the policy when it arranged her mortgage in 2006.  Countrywide has 
provided copies  of the paperwork  that was completed at that time. 
Ms L discussed her mortgage with an adviser  who, as a result of that discussion,  
recommended various insurance products to protect  Ms Ls property and her ability  to meet  
the mortgage repayments.  
When recommending  any insurance product to its customers, Countrywide had a 
responsibility to ensure  that its recommendation was suitable. 
During the mortgage discussion it was noted  yes on the mortgage planner to the question  
that is was likely ...to be a requirement  of your mortgage that the buildings are insured?. 
And yes was also answered to the question about  protecting the contents in the event of 
damage through fire, flood, theft etc?.
So, as it was identified  there was a need  for both buildings and contents insurance, the 
adviser recommended cover with Insurer A. This was detailed  in writing within the 
My Household Insurance Recommendations  which also stated that Ms L had accepted 
the recommendation.  
Within the Key facts  about this mortgage under section 9 Insurance it states Ms L was not 
required to buy any insurance  through Countrywide.  It also states the buildings insurance is 
a condition of the mortgage, but that Ms L doesnt have to take out any cover  through  
Countrywide.
All things  considered, Ms L wanted and needed a policy that would insure her home and its 
contents. And the insurance needed  to be affordable. The policy  Ms L was sold by 
Countrywide in 2006  met those needs, and was within her budget, so it was a suitable 
recommendation. Ms L also accepted  the recommendations and the costs at that time.
Ref: DRN60184803So I cant fairly say the advisers recommendation was wrong or was unsuitable  and I cant  
say the home insurance was mis-sold.
the renewals
Ms L says Countrywide, in each renewal document, said the home  insurance  was at a 
competitive rate. She says she trusted Countrywide and because of this didnt think to look 
elsewhere. 
When Countrywide recommended  Ms L home insurance cover  with Insurer A (alongside  the 
other insurances taken) there wasnt an agreement that Countrywide  would search  the 
market every year to find the best or cheapest policy insurance for Ms L. 
Countrywide sold Ms L a policy which automatically  renewed each year and Countrywide 
wrote to Ms L at renewal time to let her know the policy was up for renewal and what the 
cost for the following  year was going  to be. I dont think Countrywide was wrong to say that 
the price being  offered was competitive. 
Insurers have different approaches to assessing risk and because of this, prices can vary 
between insurers, so its hard to say to say what is competitive and what  is not. But 
Countrywide, as explained  earlier, wasnt saying this was the best possible price  just that it 
was competitive. Its likely  there  were  possibly better and worse deals out there. 
Ms Ls daughter is paying less for her home insurance, but that doesnt  mean  Countrywide  
was treating Ms L unfairly. There can be a number of reasons  why Ms Ls daughters 
insurance is cheaper. There could be different levels of cover and excesses, different risks. 
The home insurance market has also become increasingly competitive. Insurers often sell 
the insurance at a reduced rate to the true cost of providing insurance. This often done  by 
applying an initial discount  which  insurers use to attract new customers,  with the insurer  
aiming to keep the consumer and recoup that discount over the subsequent years.  
So it is difficult to compare the cost of policies  for a number of reasons,  and because  of this, 
its also difficult to conclude that Countrywide was mis-leading Ms L by saying the insurance  
offered each year by Insurer A was competitive.  
And to reiterate, the cost of insuring Ms L property was decided by the insurer, Insurer A  
not Countrywide.
I also note the renewal schedules encouraged Ms L to contact Countrywide if she wanted to 
discuss or change her policy or find out if she was eligible  for a discount. This suggests  it 
might have been possible for Ms L to get cheaper insurance. So while Countrywide wasnt  
responsible for setting  the cost  it did suggest that, as new policys  come on to the market, 
there could  be an alternative product that may be more suitable for Ms L. So I dont think 
Countrywide were treating  Ms L unfairly  or mis-leading her. 
 
Ref: DRN60184804my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6018480