K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive been provided  with a copy of the separate MPPI application form Mr L signed to 
apply for the policy. Mr L didnt have to sign this form if he didnt want  to. And him doing  
so in these circumstances, leads me to think that BOS  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs L 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out. Although  I can understand 
why they cant  remember this given how long ago this happened.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check  that the MPPI  was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, the monthly benefit on the policy covered Mr L who appears to have 
been the main  wage  earner at the time.  And although Mr L mightve been entitled to 
some sick pay the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to this and potentially  for longer. 
So I think it couldve proved useful if Mr L had to stop working suddenly - especially as it 
was protecting  the payments to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage. Mr L wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover either.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs L about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put them off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said. But these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr and Mrs L paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs L back  some of the 
cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
I understand BOS  has already paid this to Mr and Mrs L. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN65512892ombudsman
Ref: DRN6551289