K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited transferred the funds from his 1 year Fixed 
Rate Bond  into a low interest  account  on maturity and didnt send a letter informing him 
about his options at maturity.
background
Mr E took out a one year Fixed Rate Bond  with an interest rate of 1.90% with Shawbrook in 
July 2017. The funds were transferred into an account with 0.50% interest on maturity  in July 
2018. When Mr E realised this in December 2018  he complained  to Shawbrook about  this. 
Shawbrook looked  into his complaint but didnt uphold it. It said hed been informed by 
secure message  about his options  on maturity in June 2018 but hadnt given any 
instructions. Mr E wasnt  happy  with this so he came  to this service.  Our adjudicator  looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. So Mr E asked for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Mr E opened  the Fixed  Rate Bond account  online as an e-save account. Correspondence  for 
this type of account is made by secure  message and e-documents  uploaded into the online 
account. This type of written correspondence is increasingly common. The key product 
information provided about the account states  that it can be managed online and by 
telephone. There  is no reference to managing the account by post. So I think it was 
reasonable for Shawbrook to communicate with Mr E about  maturity by secure message and 
e-document.
I can see that Shawbrook  sent Mr E a secure message about the pending maturity of his 
account in June 2018. It also sent a follow-up  message in July 2018 because  it hadnt heard 
from him. This made clear what would happen  to the funds if he didnt give any other 
instructions. Ive seen  correspondence from Mr E with Shawbrook by secure  message in 
relation to earlier accounts so I think he understood how the secure message system 
worked. Because he didnt give any instructions to Shawbrook about  what to do with the 
funds on maturity, I think it was reasonable for it to allow the funds to rollover  into the 
matured funds account. In the circumstances, I wouldnt expect it to select  another  account 
without instructions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr E to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077188