K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
In January 2002 Mr B applied for a credit card from RBS. At the same  time he was sold a 
PPI policy. The PPI policy covered him against being unable  to work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy  wouldve paid 10% 
of the outstanding balance on the account for up to 12 months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
RBS has been  able to show us a copy of the original  application form. I can see it has 
instructions to complete and send back to RBS. So it looks like the type of form that would 
either be sent to Mr B to be completed and posted  back to RBS.  So I think  Mr B completed  
the form himself.
The form has a section  about PPI with a box to tick if the consumer wanted PPI. I can see 
the box to accept PPI has been  ticked.  Other options for the account have also been chosen 
by ticking a box, such the option to make  a balance transfer and to be supplied  with a PIN 
number. Some other  options  have not been  chosen,  for example, Mr B chose  not to take out 
a policy  to protect against loss or theft of the credit card.
Mr B has told us he spoke with an RBS member  of staff before completing the form and was 
pressured into taking  the PPI. Ive thought  about this, but I have to take into account that the 
form was completed 18 years ago and memories do fade over time. I accept it is possible    
Mr B spoke to someone at RBS before filling in the form, but the form itself,  in my view, 
makes it clear the PPI was presented as optional. 
Overall, I think its likely RBS made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out.
Because Mr B completed the form himself, I dont think RBS made a personal  
recommendation to him. So it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have 
to make sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide for himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible that RBS didnt give all the information  it should have done. But thats  not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr B would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if he been given better or clearer  information.           
I cant say that he would have done. 
Ref: DRN63180232Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. For example, he was eligible 
for the policy and had no existing health conditions that would not have been covered.
Mr B has told us his employer would have paid sick pay for less than three months if he 
couldnt work. And hes told us he had no other resources such  as savings he could use to 
make the monthly  repayments. So, the PPI would have been  useful for him if something 
went wrong. Particularly if Mr B couldnt work for a prolonged period of time.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6318023