K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Talbot and Muir Ltd (TM) failed  to execute his instructions in a timely  
manner.
background
In February 2017  Mr O applied, via his financial adviser, for a SIPP with TM. The application 
confirmed that the SIPP  was to receive  Mr Os previous pension amounting to an estimated 
£1,158,849. The transfer was to be received in cash and initially held in the SIPP bank 
account; with a view to later invest in two with-profit bonds, income bonds with some  monies  
being put onto a platform.
On 10 March 2017, TM received application forms for the two with-profits bonds and 
instructions to raise  cheques for the investments and forward the applications to the relevant 
providers. At this point  Mr Os pension monies had yet to be received by TM.
On 14 March 2017, TM wrote to the investment provider   of the bond which is the subject  of 
this complaint  with the application  form that Mr Os Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) 
had submitted to it. The cover letter said that it was still waiting for the pension  monies  to be 
received but that it would be in a position to make  the investments in due course  and invited 
the provider to contact it should it have any questions or require any further  information.  The 
policy number at the top of the form was blank  section entitled  note for advisers  only; this 
says that the policy number  appears  at the end of the online application  process.
On 17 March 2017, the funds from Mr Os previous  pension scheme were received. TM 
wrote to the IFA on the same day, it confirmed receipt of the fund and said:
Weve had confirmation that the [other bond providers name] account is open, would 
you like me to send the £300,000.00 over today  and then send the [the investment 
provider] funds once  they confirm it is open?
The IFA responded promptly confirming that it would like both bonds to be opened. TM 
responded confirming that it will send the monies  to the investment provider of the bond that 
had been opened on that day and chase the other  investment provider for an update.
On 28 March 2017, TM received an email from the investment provider. It apologised for the 
delay and explained that it had been  unable to locate the application form using the tracking 
number TM provided. TM resent the application  form on the same day and confirmed  that it 
would send the funds as soon as the account was opened.
On 30 March 2017, the investment provider  emailed TM, it confirmed that the application 
submitted was not the right one and that it could not accept online applications under the 
circumstances. It also gave instructions as to what would  need  to be submitted to it by post. 
It suggested that TM include a request to call it with the policy number in the covering letter  
to the application, so that TM could transfer the funds.
TM forwarded the email to Mr Os IFA instructing it to arrange  for the additional  paperwork to 
be completed and sent back, if Mr O still wanted to proceed with the investment. The IFA 
responded with some  queries about the paperwork, which TM answered based  on the 
information it had been given by the investment provider.
Ref: DRN63271612The IFA responded raising concerns  about  the time it was taking and the fact that Mr O had 
been disadvantaged. TM responded saying:
Just to give you a breakdown, the form was sent on 14th March,  we chased them on
17th March and were  advised that we [sic] couldnt  track the application as it hadnt  
been keyed onto the system, we were  advised to expect a confirmation letter  in the 
next 3-5 days advising  the account  is open and ready  for investment. On 24th March  I 
chased again as nothing  had been  received, they advised they would get back to me 
via email and on 28th March they requested me to forward the documentation we 
submitted by email.  On 30th March they then contacted me to advise that new 
application documents are required.
We unfortunately wouldnt be able to obtain the form, however we will ensure it is 
processed as quickly  as possible once received to avoid any further delay.
Please let me know if there is anything you require  from myself.
On 11 April 2017, the IFA sent the paperwork to TM by post.
On 13 April 2017, TM sent the relevant paperwork to the investment provider and confirmed 
in the covering letter that the funds were being  sent by Faster Payment. TM also sent 
confirmation of this to the IFA.
Although it took a while for the bond  to be set up once the funds had been received, 
ultimately the account was backdated to 13 April 2017 when the funds were originally 
received.
Mr O originally complained to the investment  provider; subsequently he also raised a 
complaint about  TMs actions.
TM did not uphold the complaint; it said that it did not cause  any of the delays. Unhappy with 
this response Mr O referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and also concluded that it should  not be upheld 
because TM did not cause the delays in the process  of the bond being set up.
Mr O remained  of the view that the losses he has suffered could have been avoided if TM 
had sent the funds to the investment provider at an earlier date, which  he believes it ought to 
have done.
Because agreement  could  not be reached the complaint was passed  to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld  
on 26 November 2018. I said that I would consider anything either party  wanted to add as 
long as I received  in by 10 December 2018. 
TM did not make any further submissions. Mr O reiterated the concerns he raised  in 
response to our adjudicators view. 
Ref: DRN63271613my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
During the course of this transaction TM was essentially acting as a conduit between  Mr O 
and his IFA and the investment provider. It passed on documents  submitted to it by the IFA 
to the investment provider and sent the responses  it received to the IFA. Based on what I 
have seen I think it did this in a timely manner.
The original  application  form submitted  was not the one that the investment  provider  
required, unfortunately this was not established  until 30 March 2017  this appears to have 
been due to the form being misplaced by the investment provider.  The reasons for the form 
being misplaced  are somewhat in dispute but I am satisfied that this was not down to an 
error on TMs  part.
As soon  as TM was informed about  the fact that the wrong form had been submitted it 
informed the IFA. The correct forms were sent to TM by post on 11 April 2017 and it sent 
these to the investment provider once these  had been received on 13 April 2017.
I have not seen anything in this case that would lead me to conclude  that TM ought to have 
known that the original  form was incorrect and, based on the above, I dont think it was 
responsible for the delays in this being  established.
It has been suggested that TM ought to have transferred  the funds earlier and that, if it had, 
then the account would have been backdated  to that date and Mr O would not have missed 
out as a result.
As it stands the account was backdated to the date when the correct forms were  sent along  
with the funds, I do not know,  with any certainty,  if the account would have been backdated 
to the date when the wrong  form was received  even  if the funds had been received  at that 
time  but, in any case, I am not persuaded that in the circumstances TM did anything wrong 
by not transferring the funds earlier than it did.
When TM originally sent the application  form to the investment  provider it did not have  the 
funds, so clearly could not have sent them at this point. At the point when the funds were  
received it was not clear what was happening  with the application that had been  submitted. It 
had not been confirmed  if the investment provider had received or would accept  the 
application. TM confirmed  to the parties involved that the funds would be sent once the 
account had been opened  no one objected to this at the time. As it turned out the form 
submitted could not be accepted.
TM then waited for the correct forms to be completed and sent to the investment  provider.
Again, I dont think this was unreasonable under  the circumstances.
In addition to all of the above,  I dont think that it would  in principle be fair to hold TM 
responsible for any losses suffered by Mr O as a result of the delay, because it 
Ref: DRN63271614fundamentally was not responsible for the delay. To the contrary I think that TM dealt with 
things promptly throughout the process and was proactive in trying to work out what was 
going on.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6327161