K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited gave him a misleading  
quote when he asked about changing  the car on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr S rang Advantage to ask about  the renewal premium to insure  his car. After agreeing a 
price he asked what the price would  be if he changed his car and gave some  details of the 
car he was thinking  about buying. Mr S said he knew he'd have to pay a £25 admin fee to 
change the car on the policy. Advantage told him that a ball park  figure  would be an 
increase in premium  of around £60. But it said that the quote was based  on real time prices  
and it could change.
Around six weeks later Mr S contacted Advantage to say that hed changed his car. 
Advantage told him that hed have  to pay an additional premium,  including  the £25 admin  
fee, of about £115. Mr S wasn't happy  as that figure was almost double the price Advantage 
had quoted only weeks earlier. As a goodwill gesture Advantage removed the admin fee, 
which brought the additional premium down to around £90.
Mr S paid brought his complaint about the additional  premium  to us. Our adjudicator  didn't 
think Advantage had done  anything wrong.  Mr S didn't agree so his complaint's  been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Its important that I make  clear that were not the industry regulator.  So its not my role to say 
how much  an insurer  should charge, what  factors  it should assess,  or how much risk to 
attach to each  of those  factors when deciding  on a premium. Insurance  is essentially an 
assessment of risk. And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly, 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. And, when 
deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated them the 
same as it would  other consumers with similar circumstances.
Given that the actual  premium Mr S had to pay for his new car, once the admin  fee was 
removed, was around 50% higher  than Advantage had quoted him only six weeks  or so 
earlier, I can understand his concerns. But that doesn't mean Advantage has done  anything 
wrong.
Advantage has shown us evidence that the initial quote it gave Mr S was based  on the 
information he gave  to it at the time.  So Im satisfied that it didn't make  a mistake or mislead  
him when  it gave that quote. 
I've also seen how Advantage calculated the additional premium  when Mr S gave the details 
of his new car. Those calculations are commercially sensitive so I cant  share them  with him. 
But Im satisfied that the premium it charged  him was based on its assessment of the risk Mr 
Ref: DRN64862512S and his car presented  at that time. So I think that the premium it charged  Mr S was the 
same as it would  charge  other consumers with similar circumstances.
But I can understand Mr S doesn't think that a 50% increase between quote and actual price 
is reasonable. But as Mr S probably knows, insurers will re-rate the risks they consider 
regularly. And how they assess  that risk will affect  the premiums  that they charge. And many 
insurers will do this on a daily basis. So the quotes  an insurer provides will vary from day-to-
day. And as insurers rate on numerous  different factors a small change in those details can 
lead to an increase  or decrease  in risk. That's significant because  I've noted  that the car 
Mr S bought,  while being the same make  and model, differed in specification and year of 
manufacture to the quote that Advantage had given him initially. So as well as the changes  
in rate, the quote and the actual premium charged weren't based on identical cars. And Im 
satisfied that those changes have led to the difference between the figure quoted  and the 
premium Advantage  charged. Its also notable  that Advantage  did tell Mr S that the quote 
could change. So while I can understand Mr Ss frustration I think Advantage dealt with him 
reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6486251