K821x#15complaint
Mrs As complaint is about advice given by Jim McLaughlin Financial Services  to transfer 
various pension  arrangements  into a self invested personal pension  (SIPP).  
Jim McLaughlin Financial  Services was an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial 
Planning Ltd which  is now Quilter  Financial Services Ltd. But for convenience Ive just 
referred, in the main,  to Intrinsic below.  
background
Intrinsics representative  advised  Mrs A to transfer  the value of her deferred benefits in a 
former employers pension scheme and another pension arrangement to a new SIPP.  At the 
same time Mrs As husband received advice about  his pension arrangements.   
Mrs As husband later complained to Intrinsic  on behalf of himself  and Mrs A. He said the 
adviser had misled them about the advice that would be provided; had dealt with the matter 
in an unprofessional manner; and theyd  been put under pressure to make important 
financial decisions. Intrinsic didnt uphold the complaints and they were  referred  to us. Weve  
dealt with Mr As complaint under separate reference. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs As complaint. Exactly  what happened isnt agreed. 
In particular theres a dispute about whether certain  documents were given to Mrs A and, if 
so, when. Mrs A says she didnt get the documents and she wasnt  made  aware of Intrinsics  
fees. Mrs A says the fees should be reinvested  in her pension. 
The adjudicator wrote to Mrs A and Intrinsic on 10 May 2019 setting out the background and 
his views. The adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary  he concluded:
The terms of business document explained  that the advice was "based on products 
from a panel of leading investment companies..." The reports  dated 15 and 17 
January 2018  also mentioned that the adviser  made his recommendation from a 
panel of investment pension and platform providers.
The terms of business document set out the basis of the fees that he charged. The 
actual fees for the advice were included  on the Authority to Proceed form (ATP). 
The first page of the report recommending  the transfer referred to a meeting on 28 
July 2017 and said the charges had been discussed  and agreed - £3,750 in total for 
Mrs A (although a reduction was later agreed).   
There hadnt been a meeting on 28 July 2017. So it wasnt  clear  why the adviser  had 
referred to that date.  The letter  of authority Mrs A signed was dated 27 July 2018.
Mrs A had said shed completed  blank  ATP forms  because  shed trusted  the adviser. 
But it was reasonable to expect her to have  read the form before she signed it. Shed 
have seen that the adviser was meant to be providing various documents and details. 
If those hadnt  been  provided  Mrs A should  reasonably have queried that.  
The fund recommendation wasnt unreasonable. It was higher than Mrs As 
conservative risk profile but that was noted and explained in the recommendation 
letter.   
A large  number of reports  had been produced. Mrs A may have appreciated a 
meeting to go through them. But the recommendation report summarised  the key 
information.
The adviser may have  spent  time satisfying the requirements of his compliance 
department. But it needed to sign off the advice before the transfer  could go ahead.  
Ref: DRN66954602The reports did include a section about the lifetime allowance  (LTA). Mrs A might  feel 
her new adviser is providing a superior service. But it wasnt clear  that matters such 
as the LTA would form part of the transfer advice. Given  the deadlines it might have 
been better to have  looked at such issues once the transfers  had been completed.  
Mrs A wasnt  happy with the adjudicators  view.  There was considerable further  
correspondence following which the adjudicator issued a revised  view.  He now thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. In summary:
The adjudicator  had referred the business to what  the COBS  (Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook) rules said about  providing information about the firm, its services and 
costs and the timing  of the disclosure of those details. The adjudicator had made 
enquiries of Intrinsic to see if the necessary information had been given to Mrs A at 
the start of the advice process.  
It was clear thered  been no meeting on 28 July 2017. And Mrs A had said shed 
never received  the documents listed in the ATP.  The adviser had referred to the letter  
of authority that Mrs A had signed on 27 July 2017 and said that hed given Mrs A the 
terms of business, guide to our service and about our ongoing services  documents 
then. But Mrs A had explained why she wouldnt have met with the adviser on that 
date or any other date in July. 
If the ATP wasnt signed  until December 2017  details of the charges should  have 
been provided earlier, at the outset of the advice process. But nothing  had been 
provided to show that had happened.  
The competed ATP form would have provided clear  information about the fees that 
would be charged.  That together with the documents listed would have met the 
regulatory requirements. Mrs A had said she signed blank  ATP forms on 22 
December 2017. But the forms, even if theyd  been blank,  would have highlighted 
that the adviser should have provided  information about fees and various  other 
documents. 
But that was at a late stage in the advice process.  Mrs A would have been in a 
difficult position. It would  have  been too late to seek advice elsewhere and complete 
the transfers before the CETV  expired and when any new CETV  was likely to be 
significantly lower. 
There was considerable email  correspondence  leading up to the transfer,  a lot of 
which related to the adviser meeting the compliance departments  requirements. But 
there was nothing from the time when the advice process started  to show  the terms 
of business and other documents  were provided then. And it didnt look like the ATP 
had been provided  before 22 December 2017 despite that having been  given as a 
reason for the delay in issuing the transfer  advice.  
The adjudicator  didnt think it would be reasonable to conclude  that the adviser had 
given Mrs A sufficient information about the fees and the basis for the advice at the 
outset and as required by the COBS  rules. 
Mrs As husband had said hed spoken to another firm of advisers. And if hed been  
made aware earlier of the level of fees Intrinsic was charging, hed have asked the 
other firm for an estimate (for him and Mrs A). 
The adjudicator  had contacted that firm. It had said its fee would have been between  
0.5% and 1% of the fund value. In the light of the smaller transfer  value for Mrs A, the 
adjudicator said it was reasonable to assume  a fee equal to 1% of the fund values  
transferred would have been charged. The adjudicator set out how Intrinsic  should 
calculate and pay compensation  to Mrs A.
Intrinsic didnt accept the adjudicators view. Its main  points were: 
Ref: DRN66954603Although it couldnt provide documentary evidence that the disclosure documents 
were issued  by the adviser in July 2017 as hed confirmed, neither can Mrs A 
produce anything  to show that they werent  given to her then. But theres  no doubt 
she signed the ATP on 22 December 2017 and theyd been issued earlier  as the 
adviser was awaiting  their return. 
Before returning  the ATP Mrs A was fully aware  of the expiry  date of the CETV. She 
could have chosen not to proceed  with the adviser and instructed the other firm 
instead if she was unhappy with the proposed fees.  
Mrs A had signed a legal agreement to pay the fee. That shouldnt be substituted 
with a hypothetical percentage based figure from the other adviser. Mrs A specifically 
wanted a fixed  fee agreement and still had the opportunity  to use the other adviser  if 
she wasnt happy with the proposed fee. 
Mrs A was happy with what  the adjudicator proposed. Mr A did raise two further matters on 
his and Mrs As behalf. The first was about  Intrinsics handling  of the complaint. Mr A said 
Intrinsic had dismissed the complaint  and wasnt prepared  to reconsider even though hed 
offered to provide evidence that the adviser had given misleading information on dates and 
meetings. He suggested, if Intrinsic had investigated the complaint fairly, a mutually  
acceptable outcome  would  have  been reached in the initial stages of the complaint process. 
Instead hed spent substantial time over a long period dealing  with the complaint, which  had 
caused him and Mrs A unnecessary stress.  Mr A queried if they should make a further  
complaint to Intrinsic  or refer the matter to the regulator. 
Secondly Mr A said he wasnt sure the SIPP providers platform   which Intrinsics  adviser 
recommended  was designed for private investors.  He referred to problems hed 
encountered when  hed taken his tax free cash after the transfers had been completed.  
The adjudicator replied saying those issues flowed  from the advice given and should be 
regarded as part of the ongoing complaint.  
As agreement wasnt reached  the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Im sorry that 
its taken longer than wed have liked to reach  this final stage in our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators (revised) view. So, and for the reasons  he gave, I think  the complaint should  be 
upheld. Ive set out my additional reasons below. 
As Ive said,  Mrs As husband has made  a similar complaint. And hes dealt with both 
complaints throughout. As the issues and comments for both complaints are largely the 
same, my decisions are very similar.  
Mr A has made very detailed representations on behalf of himself and Mrs A. Ive considered 
everything he and Intrinsic have said. But I havent dealt with each and every  point  raised. 
Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the main issues.  
Looking at what Intrinsic said in response  to the adjudicators  (revised)  view, first Im not 
sure what  documentary evidence Mrs A could produce to support what she says about  not 
having received  the disclosure documents in July 2017. But Id expect the adviser to be able 
Ref: DRN66954604to produce evidence to show he did give those important documents  to Mrs A then  a letter, 
file note, or email confirming theyd been handed  to Mrs A. That would have prevented later 
argument if, for example, Mrs A was given the documents but now doesnt recall.   
Mrs A says she wasnt given the documents in July 2017. Shes also explained,  and 
provided evidence  in support, to show that she couldnt have met with the adviser  on the 
July dates suggested. I think that casts considerable doubt on the advisers assertion that 
the documents were given to Mrs A at a meeting in July 2017. I accept what Mrs A says and 
that she wasnt given  the documents in July 2017. 
In saying that I dont  overlook that Mrs A signed the ATP on 22 December 2017 confirming 
the three disclosure documents had been given to her on 28 July 2017. But she says the 
form was blank when  she signed it. Mrs A says she trusted the adviser and I respect  that. So 
I think its possible that Mrs A did sign the form in blank. 
But, even  if she did, the form is pre printed and does set out the documents  that Mrs A is 
supposed to have been given. And in signing the form Mrs A confirmed shed received and 
reviewed that literature. So Mrs A could,  and I think should, have queried why those hadnt 
been provided. 
But, as the adjudicator pointed out, the timing is important and, in particular, if the requisite 
information was given at the outset of the advice process, or at least  at a time when Mrs A 
hadnt committed to this adviser and transferring to a SIPP.  If Mrs A didnt get the documents  
in July 2017 its not clear when she did get them, if at all. 
I dont agree with Intrinsics comments about  Mrs A having  the option  to instruct  another 
adviser if she was unhappy  with the proposed fee. The suitability report wasnt  emailed to 
Mrs A until 22 January 2018. That left only a matter of days  before the CETV expired. I 
agree with the adjudicator  that it was by then too late to seek advice elsewhere and 
complete the transfers before the CETV deadline  and risk any new CETV being  significantly 
lower. 
I appreciate Intrinsics position is that the advice was delayed because  the adviser was 
awaiting the return of the ATP which, according  to Intrinsic, was sent to Mrs A on 23 
November 2017.  But even if the ATP was sent then and wasnt  blank and did set out the 
fees, that wasnt at the outset of the process as COBS requires and the CETV had already 
been issued. 
Theres also other evidence  the email  dated 24 January  2018   which suggests agreement 
on fees wasnt reached at the outset or indeed in December 2017. Im not sure why it was 
necessary for the adviser to send that email if the fees had already been  discussed and 
disclosed  whether on the ATP or elsewhere.  And that email is couched  in terms which  
dont reflect confirmation of what had been  agreed earlier. And a reduction in the fees for 
Mrs A was set out - £2,000 for the defined benefit  transfer instead of £3,000.  
That email  followed on from an exchange  of emails on 22 January  2018 between Mr A and 
the adviser. Amongst  other things it seems  Mr A was querying  the charges. That too seems 
to support a finding that no earlier agreement had been reached.  Id have thought Mr A 
would have raised those issues, including a comparison  with what  other  companies  might 
charge, when the fees were first made  clear.  
Ref: DRN66954605And theres  no indication,  either on Mr As or the advisers part, that the charges had been 
agreed earlier and Mr A was seeking to revisit them. The advisers  email  sent on 28 
December 2017  also suggests firm agreement on fees had yet to be reached.   
As to whether  there is a legal agreement that Mrs A pays the fee it is the case  that Mrs A did 
agree to the (reduced) fees set out in the advisers email of 24 January 2018  Mr A did 
reply (on behalf of himself  and Mrs A) saying Ok that is fine . But I agree with the 
adjudicator that there were shortcomings  in how any agreement came  about and at what 
stage. As the adjudicator has explained,  the COBS rules impose specific requirements  
aimed at ensuring  consumers are made fully aware,  at the outset of the advice/service,  what  
is covered and how much it will cost. 
From what  Ive seen I cant be satisfied that was the case here. And if, by the time the fee 
was made  clear, it was too late for Mrs A to instruct another firm and still secure the current 
CETV, I dont see that she really  had any option but to agree to the fee Intrinsic was 
proposing. In that sort of situation I dont think it would be fair to say Intrinsic  is entitled to the 
full fee. I think the adjustment and refund  proposed  by the adjudicator is fair and reasonable. 
As to the two matters raised  more recently on behalf  of Mrs A, I agree with the adjudicator 
that these are part of this complaint rather than new matters  which  Mrs A should raise  as 
separate and further complaints. 
Mrs As complaint did include her concerns about Intrinsics handling of the complaint. What  
happened was that Intrinsic  sent its final response to Mrs A and her husband  on 18 June 
2018. They  remained dissatisfied and there was further correspondence. Mr A raised the 
matter of Intrinsics handling of the complaints which he considered was inadequate. Intrinsic 
revisited the complaint and issued a further  response on 3 August 2018. It didnt agree that 
its handling of the complaints had been flawed. But I think its clear that the issue did form 
part of Mrs As complaint.  
Ive considered whats been said about  how Intrinsic handled the complaint. Mrs A and her 
husband may be disappointed that Intrinsics investigation wasnt as thorough  as they 
thought it should have  been and Intrinsic didnt  take them  up on their offer to provide further 
evidence. But I think Intrinsic did more  than enough.  Mr A followed up Intrinsics final 
response letter with some twenty-nine  further  points. Intrinsics  letter  of 3 August 2018 
contained a point by point  response. Further  information was then supplied which Intrinsic 
considered before writing to Mrs A and her husband again on 12 September 2018. 
Mrs A may not have agreed with Intrinsics stance. But Id expect a business to try, if 
possible, to defend its position. That said, if a business saw that something  had clearly  gone 
wrong, it should admit that promptly and offer to put it right and so spare  the consumer from 
having to go through a potentially long winded and stressful  complaint process. But here I 
think the issues were somewhat finely balanced.  Our adjudicator  initially didnt uphold the 
complaint. So I dont criticise Intrinsic for its handling of Mrs As complaint. If Mrs A 
disagrees and wants  to refer the matter to the regulator then she is of course  free to do so. 
Ive dealt with the other matter, about  problems arising when Mr A took his tax free cash, in 
my decision  about his complaint. 
Im upholding Mrs As complaint to the extent Ive indicated. And Im adopting the redress  
proposed by the adjudicator. So, to put things right for Mrs A, redress  should be calculated  
and paid as follows:
Ref: DRN669546061)Determine the actual fees that were paid on the transfers that were paid to the SIPP 
provider. 
2)From  the figure in (1) deduct a figure  equal to 1% of each of the transfer values that 
were paid to the SIPP provider.  
3)The resulting  figure  should be increased  from the date of each transfer in line with 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return Index up to the date of 
settlement. This is the index we would generally  use as a proxy for the return a 
medium risk fund might achieve.
If possible the redress should be paid into a pension plan held by Mrs A. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. But the compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. 
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to her likely income tax rate in retirement - 
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint. Quilter  Financial Services Ltd must redress  Mrs A as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6695460