K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc has paid to 
cash settle a claim made for damage  caused by an escape of water. 
background
In October  2017 water  from an upstairs flat escaped into Mr and Mrs Ks kitchen, damaging 
units, appliances and flooring. Mr and Mrs K submitted a claim on 2 November 2017 and a 
loss adjuster was sent to inspect and report on the damage. On 6 November 2017 their 
boiler had started  leaking. 
Keen to get matters resolved Mrs K contacted the loss adjuster on 13 November seeking an 
update; she was told the insurer  was awaiting the loss adjuster report  and schedule  of 
works. The following  day, after arranging a builder  to come out and quote for work,  Mrs K 
sent in a quote for a replacement kitchen. She was looking  for a cash settlement as she had 
a builder ready to go. The quote included a brand new kitchen, flooring and appliances 
including a new oven.  The quote was referred for consideration with Mrs K chasing  a few 
days later.  
The loss adjuster asked for a second  quote as the costs in the first quote  were too high. But 
this request went to the wrong e-mail address and didnt reach  Mrs K. On 22 November it 
was agreed Mrs K could  get someone  to fix the boiler and send an invoice. The following 
day the loss adjuster agreed to strip out costs and the work was subsequently carried  out. 
Soon after it was agreed the oven was beyond repair. 
Mrs K chased settlement  on 28 November but by this time a referral had been  made  to the 
insurer as it had come to light leaks from upstairs had happened previously and the loss 
adjuster wanted  to ensure  the damage was covered. It took a couple  of weeks for this 
referral to be completed which Mrs K complained about. The insurer apologised for the 
delays and paid them £200 compensation. 
Given the difference between the costs  reported  by the loss adjuster and Mrs Ks quote a 
revisit of the property  was arranged. After disagreeing  that all damaged units had been 
included, the insurer agreed to costs  for all units,  agreed the flooring costs and a contribution 
to sanding the remaining floor (as it ran through other areas  of the flat), a replacement oven, 
repair costs for the boiler and the associated installation and repair  works.  It also agreed a 
50% contribution to the dishwasher  fascia.  But the insurer didnt agree costs  for a new 
dishwasher, sink or mixer tap, as these werent  damaged as a result of the escape  of water,  
instead it allowed  an amount for removal and refit. In all it offered over £9,000.   
Mrs K complained as she wasnt happy with the settlement offer and believed the insurer 
should pay her quote. RSA considered  the complaint and was satisfied it had offered a fair 
settlement. However, it agreed to uplift the amount by 3% to £9,752.96 (after excess)  as 
there had been  some  delays. This amount  was subsequently paid.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She concluded that RSA hadnt fully 
indemnified Mr and Mrs K for the claim  she didnt think it fair RSA only pay what it would 
have cost it to repair  the damage,  particularly  as the loss adjuster hadnt been using the 
correct e-mail address which led to delays and a second quote  for works not being obtained. 
So she asked RSA for the difference between what it had already  paid and Mrs Ks final cost 
for work. And because of the delays caused  during  the claim she asked RSA to pay an 
Ref: DRN60432152additional £400. She also asked it to cover the costs of the replacement boiler on provision 
of an invoice. 
RSA didnt agree and is satisfied it has fairly  settled  this claim. It also thinks it has fairly 
compensated Mr and Mrs K for the delays and inconvenience caused.  Mrs K says the boiler 
wasnt fixed and needs replacing but its hard to identify the cause. Since  then she has 
provided a quote  to replace the boiler and a report which says the boiler is damaged  due to 
water ingress.  
I issued my provisional decision on 11 March 2019  explaining why I was minded to find that 
RSA had already  made a fair settlement of the escape of water  claim, and paid sufficient 
compensation for the delays and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs K disagree with my findings. In summary, they say:
The significance of the wrong e-mail address cannot be overstated.  The agreement 
to strip out costs,  procured from the same contractor, resulted in an untenable 
situation with regard to the habitability of their home. Had they received clear 
communication their quote was in question  they wouldnt have proceeded with the 
strip out. The loss adjusters approval to the strip out costs  came with a tacit 
inference the overall quote was within acceptable levels.  
They firmly  contest the assertion that RSA lacked the opportunity  to send  its own 
contractors to provide  a competitive quote. They say they repeatedly  asked about 
availability on the phone. Between the first inspection and the revisit five weeks  later 
there was ample time for RSA to arrange for their preferred supplier to visit. Had the 
approval for the strip out not been given they would have  refrained  from the works  
and waited for the eventual competitive quote  to be procured. The mishandlings of 
the claim left them with no alternative  other  than progress remedial works. 
The ombudsman observed items  were  included on the quote  which  werent 
damaged. Their builder quoted for everything in the kitchen which  was an oversight 
and an offer to obtain a new quote  was made,  but were told was unnecessary.  The 
boiler was mentioned  in the original  claim.  RSA closed the claim prematurely and 
once the appeals process had commenced they sourced a replacement  quote and 
engineers report. 
RSA asked to see any comments Mr and Mrs K had made in response  to the provisional 
decision. It has said, in summary:
The leak occurred on 25 October  2017 and the claim  made  on 2 November 2017. On 
10 November 2017 the loss adjuster attend the property and a report received on 
15 November 2017. The customer was chasing  and offering her own quote. The 
strip out works were authorised on 23 November 2017 and a disturbance payment 
was made per day. 
It reiterates  Mr and Mrs K acted without its consent. In response to Mr and Mrs Ks 
point that had we received clear  communication that our quote was in question we 
would not have proceeded with the strip out works it has highlighted sections from 
its records of telephone discussions had with Mr and Mrs K which  indicated  it would 
still need to review their quote.  And when they were told that they asked to speak 
with a manager. The following day Mr and Mrs K informed  it the builder had been 
instructed for works and would lose money,  for which they would want  to be 
reimbursed. RSA refused this.
Ref: DRN60432153Its unclear what the tacit inference is but disagrees this amounts to an authorisation 
of costs. 
It asked for a report on the boiler but this was never received. 
I will respond to the points made in my findings below, which incorporates my provisional 
findings also.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure both Mr and Mrs K and RSA that I have considered all that has been said and 
provided, including the responses  to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs Ks policy does cover for loss and/or damage caused by an escape of water.  
The policy explains,  under  Preferred Suppliers that: 
Where we can offer a repair  or replacement through  a preferred supplier but we 
agree to pay our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed 
the amount we would  have paid our preferred  supplier.
Mr and Mrs K submitted their claim on 2 November 2017. The loss adjuster records show 
the earliest available appointment for a visit was 8 November and an appointment was 
utlimately made for 10 November 2017.  The loss adjuster reviewed the damage and 
submitted a schedule  of work for consideration. By 13 November Mrs K was chasing  for an 
update and was told the report  and schedule needed consideration. But the following day 
Mrs K sumitted a quote  she had obtained  from her own builder and a quote  for a kitchen; 
she was looking for a cash settlement. 
During the course of this complaint, Mrs K has said RSA didnt offer to send out its own 
contractors. But having considered the timeline of events, I dont think  it ever got that 
chance. Despite  knowing RSA had sent out a loss adjuster and the report  and schedule of 
works were being considered, Mrs K had obtained her own quote for both the work and a 
replacement kitchen and submitted them for consideration of a cash settlement. This was 
because she had a builder ready  to go and it doesnt appear she wanted  to wait 
understandable given  the time of year. But I am satisfied RSA was willing to arrange 
repairs/replacements and therefore indemnify Mr and Mrs K for their loss. But Mr and Mrs K 
wanted a cash  settlement  instead. As set out, under  the terms of the policy  they are only 
entitled to the amount it would have  cost RSA to rectify  the damage.  
Mr and Mrs K have  said they were willing to wait for RSAs own preferred supplier to visit 
and provide a quote. But that was what  the loss adjusters report  was for  assessing  the 
damage and what  it would cost to put right. As Mr and Mrs K had already said they wanted  
their own builder to complete the works, there  would  have been no need  for RSA to obtain 
further quotes or send out a preferred  supplier  Mr and Mrs K had already asked for a cash  
settlement. And they were  aware  RSA (or its agents) were in the process of  considering the 
report when they asked for the cash settlement. So I remain satisfied  that RSA was willing  to 
arrange repairs/replacements and indemnify them  for their loss but they wanted something  
different. 
Ref: DRN60432154I do understand the cost to Mr and Mrs K of getting their kitchen repaired and parts replaced 
is higher than the settlement RSA paid. But it is often the case  that insurers  can get such  
work completed more  competetively. As RSA was prepared  to indemnify Mr and Mrs K then 
I dont think its fair to ask RSA to meet the full cost Mr and Mrs K paid, only what  it would 
have had to pay itself. What I need  to consider is whether to the settlement amount paid 
represents the amount it would have cost RSA to complete the works. 
From the records provided  I can see that after the revisit and further discussions with Mrs K, 
the scope of liability for RSA included all of the units  and sundries, the flooring  including 
sanding the remaining flooring, repairing the wall, replacing the oven and an amount  to cover 
fixing the boiler as quoted for by Mrs Ks contractor.  I can see Mr and Mrs Ks quote included 
items that werent  damaged, such as the sink, a mixer tap and a dishwasher. But as they 
werent damaged  RSA isnt required to pay any costs in replacing those items.  I understand  
Mr and Mrs K were  willing to obtain a new quote with those items removed, but like the loss 
assessor I dont think that was necessary  as RSA could work from the quote and omit those 
items.   It did include costs for removing and refitting  those items, which  I would expect. RSA 
also included 50% of the cost of replacing  the fascia for the dishwasher as the original 
wouldnt match. This is in line with our approach where matching parts  arent damaged but 
would leave the customer with unmatched furniture. And its scope  did include labour. So Im 
satisfied RSAs settlement  included everything it needed to and I find no basis on which to 
ask it to pay the full cost paid by Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K have  highlighted the importance of the incorrect e-mail address being used 
and that they wouldnt  have gone  ahead with the works if they hadnt had a tacit inference 
the cost had been approved. 
Like RSA Im unsure  what the tacit inference  is. Approving strip out costs is not the same as 
agreeing the quote for works. And although  I fully accept that RSA was sending  emails to the 
wrong address,  RSAs  records  do show Mr and Mrs K were aware their quote  hadnt been 
approved, as this formed part of their telephone conversations  with RSA (its agents) after the 
strip out costs had been agreed. Indeed, it was at this time the referral had been made to 
RSA about the previous leaks and the delays in considering  that were  something they 
complained about and I consider below.  So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs K were  aware  their 
quote hadnt been approved when they went ahead and instructed their builder to start 
works. 
Mr and Mrs K also complained about  the delays, particularly when a matter needed to be 
referred back to RSA for consideration. As with all buildings insurance claims,  putting the 
matter right takes time.  And it isnt unusual for this to take several  months. Mr and Mrs K 
submitted their claim at the beginning of November  2017 and had a settlement offer by the 
beginning of January 2018.  Whilst there  were  some small delays in this process,  RSA has 
already paid £200 compensation and uplifted  the final settlement offer by 3%. I consider this 
fair compensation for the delay experienced. I have also noted  that RSA included an amount 
for VAT but it doesnt appear Mr and Mrs Ks contractor was actually VAT registered  so 
RSA has paid more  to Mr and Mrs K than they were due.  
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs K say the boiler repair didnt  work  and they need  a new boiler. 
I cant see from the information Ive been  provided that Mr and Mrs K have ever let RSA 
know that. So although this might have  been  part of the original claim, RSA was waiting for 
information from Mr and Mrs K that it never received. And as Mr and Mrs K have now had 
report done, they will need to send that to RSA for further consideration. 
Ref: DRN60432155Im satisfied RSA has made  a fair settlement of Mr and Mrs Ks claim, and fairly 
compensated them for the delay, and so I make no award against RSA.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6043215