K820x#14complaint
W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is unfairly closing its business account 
and requiring it to repay the overdraft. W is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as 
Mr H. Mr H asks that RBS re-instates the account,  removes any adverse data from his credit 
file, apologises  and pays compensation.
background
RBS agreed an overdraft facility of £2,500  on Ws account in September  2016 and renewed 
the facility in September 2017. In September 2018  RBS asked for the overdraft debt (about 
£1,600) to be repaid. RBS transferred the account to its recoveries team, which  means W 
cant use it. Mr H says this is unfair. He says hes been making  payments to reduce the 
overdraft and was led to believe this was sufficient.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said RBS was 
entitled to review the overdraft facility and decide whether to renew  it. Overdrafts are 
repayable on demand. The debt was owed by W and Ws business wasnt generating 
enough income to repay it. A repayment plan couldnt be agreed and the account was 
transferred to the recoveries team.
Our adjudicator said RBSs service could have been better. But its poor service  didnt  
change the outcome. She said she couldnt ask RBS to restore the overdraft  facility  or 
transfer the account from its recoveries team. 
W didnt agree. Mr H said he was making  the repayments agreed  with RBS. He says it 
doesnt matter  that he was funding this rather than W as he was investing  in the company. 
Mr H cant understand why RBS renewed the overdraft in 2017 and then demanded he 
repay it in 2018.  And he still wants an apology from RBS for making  inappropriate comments 
about persistent  debt and insolvency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr H says W needed  an overdraft in 2016  when changes in exchange rates  made materials 
more expensive. He says the nature of Ws business means  it will be some time before it 
makes sales to recoup  this. I appreciate that not being able to use the account  caused 
difficulties for W business.
RBS discussed  the overdraft with Mr H in August 2018. It asked him to provide financial  
information for W which it received in September 2018. RBS says, after reviewing this, it 
didnt think W had enough income  for it to agree a formal repayment plan. 
Mr H says hes reduced the overdraft with monthly  payments and intended to continue to do 
so. He says this is an investment in W. But I can understand RBSs concern  here.  The debt 
is owed by W and W doesnt,  at the moment,  have enough income to repay the debt. RBS 
couldnt offer a repayment plan which W couldnt afford  to maintain. 
Ref: DRN67727642Mr H says that RBS changed the terms of the loan. That isnt the case. Overdrafts are 
intended for short term use and are repayable  on demand. RBS says the overdraft facility  
was offered for 12 months. The facility had been through the renewal process in 2017. So 
Mr H would have known  that the overdraft  facility would be reviewed in September 2018 and 
RBS would then decide whether or not to renew  it.
I know Mr H will be disappointed.  But I dont  think its reasonable to require RBS to reinstate 
the overdraft or Ws account.  
Mr H was upset by some of the comments made  by RBS. Im sorry for this. But as these 
comments were  made to Mr H, I cant see that they could cause harm to Ws reputation. And 
while comments made by an RBS representative suggested it had made an error, this 
doesnt change  the outcome here. I should  also note that this complaint is from W  as a 
limited company W doesnt  feel upset  or other emotions. In the circumstances, I dont think  
its reasonable to require  RBS to apologise or pay compensation.
I havent seen  evidence that RBS recorded incorrect information  on Mr Hs credit file. 
Mr H says he intends to continue to make  payments  to repay  the debt. I think  thats the right 
thing to do. RBS confirmed  its agreed  a repayment plan with Mr H.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6772764