K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc didnt give him proper  notice of the 
cancellation of his motor insurance policy and provided poor service  to him.
background
Tesco told Mr W by email on 2 July 2018  - shortly  after he took the policy out - that it needed 
proof of his no claims discount (NCD).  Tesco says that on 16 July 2018  it sent him a letter 
saying it needed  the proof  within seven days or his policy would be cancelled. Mr W says he 
didnt get the letter.  Tesco sent a reminder  email  to Mr W three days later saying his cover 
would be cancelled if the proof  wasnt received. Tesco  accepts that no deadline  was given 
on the email. But it added another letter to his online account  on the same day. The letter 
said the policy would be cancelled on 29 July 2018.
Mr W was struggling  to get the correct proof  of NCD from his previous  insurer.  He said 
Tesco didnt  have  an email address  he could  write  to and that when he tried to call there was 
a 20-minute wait to get through. Mr W says he didnt realise  the urgency of providing  the 
NCD proof. So he was shocked to get an email from Tesco on 6 August 2018 telling him his 
cover had been cancelled that day. He thinks  Tesco should have contacted him by text or 
called him first. Mr W was charged  for time on cover on the motor  policy  and for the full price  
of the add-on  policies  hed bought.  Tesco refunded the rest of the money hed paid.
Mr W says he was forced to talk to an advisor  about the situation  via social media.  He made  
a complaint and an advisor told him by text on 7 August 2018 that someone would contact 
him within 15 days. As that didnt happen,  Mr W called Tesco. He got a missed call and a 
message from an advisor on 5 September 2018, but Tescos final response  letter  was issued 
the same  day. Mr W was unhappy that he didnt get to discuss  his complaint first.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ws complaint. She thought Tesco  had acted 
reasonably, as it had issued  a letter giving seven days notice of the cancellation. She said it 
wasnt aware of the problems he was having  with the other  insurer. She said we couldnt  ask 
Tesco to change its method of contacting  consumers. In her view it was fair for it to keep the 
premium for the add-on policies, as the main policy said that would happen  on cancellation.    
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for review. I 
issued a provisional decision as follows:
Mr W says he started to chase his previous insurer for proof of his NCD on 1 August 2018. 
That was a month after Tesco first asked him for it. In the meantime Tesco had emailed  him 
twice. Both emails said the policy may be cancelled if the NCD proof wasnt provided. Mr W 
got the emails.  But he says he didnt get the seven-day cancellation notice Tesco had posted  
to him on 16 July 2018. 
The policy says Tesco will provide seven days notice of cancellation  to a consumers last 
known address. It can show that it sent the cancellation notice to Mr Ws address   although 
it didnt actually cancel  the policy until 6 August 2018. I dont think  Tesco  can be blamed if 
the letter didnt  arrive. And I think  it had tried to make it clear to Mr W in its emails how 
important it was to provide NCD proof.  It also added the emails and the cancellation notice to 
his online  account.  I dont think Tesco was obliged to contact Mr W by phone  or text, as hes 
suggested. That isnt its normal process. And I think it did enough  by sending the letter  to 
him in line with the policy. 
Ref: DRN67079292Mr W thinks the cancellation  date should  have been  set out on the emails. He says as it 
wasnt, he didnt realise how urgent the situation was. He also says he was busy during the 
period in question, which  is why it took him so long to chase  his previous insurer.  When he 
called the previous insurer  in August 2018, there was a dispute  about the NCD. Mr W says 
he called  Tesco around that time to try to inform it of the problem. But he says there was a 
20-minute queue, and that he was too busy to wait.
I think many  consumers might have waited  or called again   if theyd been warned about a 
possible cancellation of their policy a month earlier. I know  it can be frustrating to have to 
wait to speak  to an advisor, but waiting times vary. I think  the onus was on Mr W to ensure 
Tesco knew  what was happening.  But from what hes said, he only made one attempt to call 
Tesco. Given that he knew it needed  proof  of NCD  and that he also knew there was a 
problem in getting it  I think it would have  been  reasonable for Mr W to call Tesco again. 
Had he tried to do so on a different date, or at another time,  he may not have had to wait. 
Mr W isnt happy that it wasnt possible for him to email Tesco. We cant  tell Tesco  what  
contact arrangements it should  have with consumers. But I think there were other ways for 
Mr W to contact it. Calling was the most obvious  option, but Mr W later contacted Tesco  
about his complaint using social media, so that was another possibility. He could also have 
used his online account to send information to Tesco. It had suggested to him that he should  
upload his NCD proof to it, so I think Mr W was aware of that option.
In my opinion, it wasnt unreasonable for Tesco to cancel  Mr Ws policy.  I think it did all it 
could to ensure  he knew  he had to provide NCD proof and that it gave  him sufficient notice 
of the cancellation. It also wrote  to him afterwards  to confirm it.
Mr W was charged  £27.85 for the 39 days hed had on cover.  But he had also taken out 
three add-on policies  that cost £138.25  between them and werent  refunded. Tesco  said 
one of the terms of the main motor policy was that if it was cancelled, there would be no 
refund on the add-on policies. It seems that two of the add-on policies were underwritten  by 
other insurers, so Mr W may contact them directly about potential refunds.  Tesco 
underwrites the driver injury cover  Mr W took out. 
The investigator asked  Tesco  to consider a pro-rata  refund on the driver injury  policy   
unless the cost of cancellation would exceed  any refund due. Tesco  said it wasnt  aware that 
this was our approach, and that Mr W knew the add-on policies werent refundable when he 
bought them. Tesco said it pays  other suppliers for the extra policies and doesnt get refunds 
from them if they are cancelled. It said as the investigator hadnt upheld  the complaint about  
the cancellation, it didnt think it should agree  to her request.   
I think the investigator set out our approach to the cancellation of add-on policies correctly. 
As Tesco only underwrites  one of the policies,  we havent asked it to consider refunding the 
others. I think  Tesco should give Mr W a pro-rata refund of the driver injury  policy   unless it 
can show that the cost of doing so would be greater  than the refund due. 
Mr W was unhappy that he didnt get to discuss his complaint with Tesco before it issued its 
final response letter, and I can understand why he was disappointed not to be able to do 
that. It seems an advisor made a last-minute  attempt to contact him, but I dont think  it would 
have made  any difference to the outcome had Mr W spoken to the advisor. I think the facts  
were clear  from the outset. So I dont  think Mr W would have been  able to persuade  Tesco 
to change its view of his complaint.  
Ref: DRN67079293I understand why Mr W is so upset with the situation he finds himself  in. A cancellation is a 
serious matter and has a long-term effect.  But I dont think  hes been able to show that 
Tesco should be required  to do anything  other  than consider the add-on refund. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mr W didnt comment. Our 
understanding was that the business  had accepted the investigators view against  it. It had 
also responded to her request for it to consider a refund on the add-on policy.  But in its reply  
to the provisional  decision, it said Tesco Personal Finance Plc was the correct  business. It 
said that business was responsible for the policy cancellation. But as it isnt an insurer, it 
said it couldnt consider a refund of the Tesco add-on policy to Mr W. We explained the 
situation to Mr W, but he didnt respond.
I issued a second provisional decision against Tesco Personal Finance in which my findings 
were largely  the same  as those in my first decision.  But as it isnt an underwriter,  I couldnt  
ask it to consider  providing a refund. I said Mr W could ask Tesco Underwriting about that. 
Tesco accepted  the decision, but Mr W didnt. He made numerous comments, but I think 
there were four major issues  he wanted to emphasise. First of all, he still believes  Tesco  
should have used other means to contact  him and / or that he should have been  able to 
contact it by email. Secondly, he thinks the severe  impact of policy cancellations should  be 
fully explained  up front by insurers. Thirdly, he thinks  if Tesco  had called him before issuing 
its final response letter, it may have made a difference to the outcome. So it wasnt fair for it 
not to keep to its complaints process. Lastly, Mr W thinks the right business should have 
been identified  at the start - and that Tescos  policy shouldnt  say add-on policies arent 
refundable anyway.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W is aware that we arent  able to instruct Tesco how to run its business  or tell it what its 
processes should  be. I think its entitled to say whether it wants  to set up a system for 
incoming emails or not, as thats a business / resourcing decision.
The policy says Tesco will send  consumers a seven-day cancellation notice, which  it did. It 
also sent Mr W emails  telling  him the policy may be cancelled, as well as updating his online 
account. I dont  agree  with Mr W that it should also be required to send consumers texts and 
/ or emails about cancellation. I think once Mr W knew cancellation was a possibility, the 
onus was on him to let Tesco know  he was having a problem in getting the NCD proof.  I 
dont think one attempted call to it was enough.
In terms of the impact  of cancellations and Tescos  failure to explain it in full in the policy,  
Mr W didnt raise this as part of his initial complaint. But we cant instruct  insurers about the 
content and wording of their polices anyway. We arent the industry regulator - which  is the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Mr W could raise the issue  with the regulator if he likes.
The policy doesnt  say that Tesco will call consumers to discuss  their complaints before 
issuing a decision. But as Mr W was promised a call, I think Tesco should have called him 
prior to sending the letter out. If Tesco meant to discuss the issues  with him, then again, I 
Ref: DRN67079294dont think one attempted call was enough. But I still think that had a discussion taken place 
its unlikely to have  made  a difference to the outcome. 
Mr W believes his input could have led to Tesco  making  a different decision. We cant know  
for sure, but in my opinion, its far more likely  than not that Tesco would have  defended  its 
position. Mr W had already been given more notice of the cancellation than Tesco  was 
required by the policy to give. Hed been  allowed extra time before the cancellation went  
ahead. He knew it was vital to provide NCD proof.  But he didnt take steps to let Tesco  know  
why he wasnt able to do so. 
I think its very doubtful  that Tesco would have been  persuaded to uphold his complaint in 
these circumstances.  Mr W says he could have  made clear  his intention  to withdraw his 
custom from the Tesco brand. But I dont think Tesco  would have seen that as significant 
enough to override the policy terms and its usual process. 
I agree  that the investigators initial view and the subsequent decision should  have  been  
issued against  the right business. The investigator  checked with Tesco  which business to set 
up the case against at the start.  Unfortunately, there was a misunderstanding  at that point. 
Tesco didnt  pick up on it when the investigator  issued  her view or when she queried the 
add-on policy refund.  That led to a second decision having to be issued. I think  the main  
impact of that for Mr W is that he now has to ask the policys underwriter about one of the 
add-on policy refunds,  as only an underwriter can make that decision. 
Mr W thinks its wrong in principle for Tesco to say it wont  issue refunds on add-on policies. 
As the underwriter is responsible for the policy terms, that isnt an issue  for Tesco Personal 
Finance to address. But we think its reasonable for insurers  to consider such refunds, which  
is why Ive said Mr W should ask the underwriters of the add-on policies to do so.  
As I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ws complaint.    
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6707929