K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) didnt provide 
the information hed requested in relation to his potential retirement benefits. He wanted  the 
information before his birthday so that he could decide what to do but he says he still hasnt 
received what he requested. He also wants further compensation for the inconvenience and 
distress hes been caused  by what  he says are Prudentials errors and the amount of time 
hes spent bringing  his complaint.
background
On 4 January  2019 Mr W wrote to Prudential requesting illustrations for his pension  plan 
including a number  of different options  on his 74th and 75th birthdays. He also asked for an 
analysis on whether he should  combine his pension plan with others he held with different 
providers.
Prudential sent Mr W a number of illustrations on 14 January 2019, but Mr W wasnt happy 
with the information and complained. He raised the following points:
Prudentials response didnt answer  the questions hed raised in his request. 
Prudentials response was 41 pages in length  but the pages werent numbered. He 
wanted the information resend  with the pages  numbered.
Hed asked for some  firm quotes on specific dates but had only received projections 
instead.
Prudential hadnt responded  to voicemails hed left asking to discuss  the situation.
Hed been told he needed a financial adviser  to transfer his benefits elsewhere  but he 
thought this wasnt a legal requirement. 
Prudential accepted it had provided Mr W with a poor level of service regarding  the 
information it sent him and also not setting  up his complaint on the correct  date. It paid Mr W 
£150 as compensation for his poor customer experience. 
Mr W then wrote back to Prudential with a request for the correct  information hed asked for 
in his letter of 4 January 2019.  He also raised two new questions. Prudential  responded with 
specific answers to the questions Mr W had raised  but continued to look into his complaint.
In March 2019  in response to the complaint  Prudential provided a valuation of Mr Ws 
plan and a pension guarantee risk warning about  the Guaranteed Annuity Rate  (GAR)  
attached to his pension.  But Mr W wasnt happy  with this response and he brought his 
complaint to us. In his submission he confirmed what his complaint points were in summary.
Prudential had provided more illustrations than hed requested  and because there 
was a lack of explanation  about them he was unable to have a reasonable 
conversation on the telephone when he wanted  to clarify things.
When he requested the information  was resent,  it arrived  with the pages  numbered 
but with no further clarity of things.
The complaint  manager Mr W had previously been dealing  with didnt monitor  what 
was sent to him. And the manager  didnt respond to voicemails and emails  that Mr W 
had left him.
Because he hadnt received the various annuity options hed requested hed had to 
delay taking pension  benefits past his recent  birthday.  He wanted compensation for 
this delay.
Ref: DRN62473422One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said she didnt think  it should  be 
upheld as she felt that Prudentials offer of £150 was fair and reasonable for the poor service 
it had provided.  She said Prudential had answered Mr Ws questions  and had provided  the 
information he required. She noted that Prudential couldnt address  some of the points 
raised because  they involved giving advice   and Prudential had recommended  that Mr W 
took financial advice  over these matters because it wasnt able to do so.  
Mr W didnt agree. He said another provider had managed to give him the specific  
information he requested about  its pension and he felt that Prudentials information remained 
unclear. He also said hed accepted the compensation offered on the basis  that future 
correspondence would be monitored by the complaint manager before  it was sent to him  to 
ensure it answered  his questions. But this hadnt  happened. He also felt hed been denied  
the opportunity  to draw benefits  before his recent  birthday because he didnt have the 
information he needed to compare the benefits at different retirement ages.
As no resolution has been found the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr W made a specific request for information  to Prudential in January 2019. He wanted to 
know what annuity he could expect at two different ages with extra  options covering  some 
guarantees and index  linking. In total he requested eight different illustrations. In addition  he 
asked a number  of questions about transferring  pensions with other providers to Prudential 
Ive looked at a copy  of the response Prudential sent Mr W on 14 January 2019 very 
carefully. And I do share  Mr Ws frustration  about the format of the letter. Whilst Im of the 
opinion that it provided a comprehensive range of options on what  Mr W could  expect from 
his plan, I dont  consider  it was clear  based  on the copy  Ive seen  which  options  related 
to each illustration.  So I can understand why Mr W sought more  clarity and also why he felt it 
would have been difficult to discuss the illustrations on the telephone. 
But that doesnt mean Prudential did anything wrong  here. It was obliged   however Mr W 
worded his request  to provide illustrations  using the format set by the industry  regulator  
and to include all the information prescribed by the regulator. 
 
I know Mr W would have preferred the information  to be more  concise and easier  to 
understand but Prudential  had to provide him with information around  most of his options  as 
well as signposting that further quotes could be obtained on request and that Mr W ought to 
consider taking financial advice. It was for Mr W to consider all of the information  and to 
decide what he should do based  on that information.
That said,  even if its first response was not as clear as could be expected,  in its letter  dated 
24 January 2019  Prudential  answered  Mr Ws further  questions. It provided the GAR for 
ages 74 and 75 on five different bases to cover most of the likely options. It also explained  
that it could receive  a transfer of Mr Ws other pension benefits. But it said that, whether 
Ref: DRN62473423Mr W should transfer other benefits to Prudential would need to be considered by a financial 
adviser as this and the other   questions  he had posed required financial advice and 
Prudential wasnt authorised to give Mr W financial advice.  
So I think that by 24 January  2019 Prudential had provided Mr W with the information he 
requested, albeit not in the form he would  have liked, and had explained why it couldnt 
provide the analysis of Mr Ws other pensions to establish what the most  advantageous  way 
forward was for him. 
Mr W has stated  that he still hasnt had the information he requested and Im assuming  hes 
referring to the additional questions he asked about  combining his pensions.  Because  in his 
request Mr W suggested that I understand that on 1 March  2018, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority made it a mandatory requirement  incumbent for all providers, i.e. in this case  
Prudential, to inform  their clients, i.e. in this case me, how much  they could gain from 
shopping around to other  competitor providers and, where appropriate to switch provider 
before they purchase an annuity.
But I think this was the regulator confirming  that providers needed to make  customers aware 
of the option of buying an annuity elsewhere instead  of staying with their own provider. So I 
dont think this suggests any obligation  on Prudential to carry out an analysis of Mr Ws 
various pensions  to see whether he might be better off taking an open market  option. 
Prudential explained  this to Mr W in its letter and has signposted  where Mr W might  be able 
to get the guidance  and advice he needs to do this. I know  Mr W says he doesnt require 
financial advice and I can understand  why he said that  but equally Prudential isnt under 
any obligation to carry out those calculations  and comparisons. 
Mr W has also said that the delay  in providing the information he asked for prevented him 
being able to decide if he should take the pension benefits before his birthday.  I understand 
this must have been frustrating for Mr W. But I do think  that the information Prudential  
provided was sufficient for Mr W to have  been  able to make that decision. In reaching  this 
view Ive borne in mind  he wanted the comparison information to include his other plans to 
be able to be sure about what  to do. As I explained  above Prudential wasnt  going to be able 
to provide that information for him. 
However, it is clear that Prudential has made  some  errors in communicating with Mr W. I 
dont think it dealt with Mr Ws specific requests in the most appropriate manner  by 
continuing to send generic responses  when a more individual, bespoke  response was 
required. And clearly  the complaint manager  didnt deal with Mr Ws complaint fully and 
failed to respond to his voicemails and emails,  and Mr Ws complaint wasnt set up when he 
initially made it. So I think Mr W has suffered a degree of distress and inconvenience  over 
this matter. 
But Prudential has acknowledged its errors and paid Mr W £150 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think,  looking at the errors, and based on the circumstances of the 
case that the offer is fair and reasonable. And its broadly  in line with what  I would have 
awarded in the same  situation if Prudential hadnt  addressed the matter.
my final decision
Prudential has offered £150  in order to resolve Mr Ws complaint  and I think thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Prudential should pay Mr W £150 if it hasnt already done so.
Ref: DRN62473424Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6247342