K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc treated him unfairly in relation to some business  
loans. He asks that Barclays accepts his settlement offer.
background
Mr L had a current account and two business  loans with Barclays. He says Barclays didnt  
contact him for more than six years until he received a default  notice  in late 2018.  He says 
Barclays claims he owes about £7,000 but cant provide the original documents.  Hed like 
Barclays to provide a statement showing how it calculated interest and the amount owed.
Mr L raised a complaint  in 2012 which was brought to this service. Barclays  put a hold on 
collection activity while the complaint  was dealt with. It says it failed to remove  the hold after 
a final decision on the complaint had been  issued and, as a result,  didnt try to contact  Mr L 
again about the debt until 2016.
Barclays told Mr L it wont consider his offer to settle  the loan until he provides information  
about his personal  financial circumstances. Mr L says this is wrong.  He also says Barclays  
passed the debt to a third party without telling him.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Barclays said it would contact Mr L after his complaint was resolved in 2013. So it made 
an error when it didnt try to contact him until 2016. However,  it paid compensation of 
£200 and reduced  the amount owed so that it wouldnt benefit from the delay. This was 
reasonable.
While  the loans  were  business  loans they were taken out by Mr L. So Barclays  was 
entitled to ask him to pay the debt.  It had told Mr L that the debt was passed to a third 
party several times, including in its final response letter.
Barclays had explained it needed more information about Mr Ls circumstances to help it 
to decide whether  to accept his settlement offer. This was reasonable.
Barclays said it hadnt recorded  any defaults  on Mr Ls credit files. But if Mr L provides 
evidence of any adverse information  recorded by it, it will look into it.
Mr L didnt agree. He says its wrong  that Barclays wont accept a part payment to settle the 
debt without financial information but will accept the full amount. He asks for the regulation 
that requires or allows this. He says Barclays should  have asked for the information in 
writing. Mr L said the debt was taken  out by a limited liability  partnership  and when this 
service looked at his complaint in 2013 we said the borrower was a business. Mr L says this 
means Barclays cant ask him for personal  information as its decision isnt based on his 
personal worth. 
Mr L said his main  aim was for Barclays to consider his offer of settlement without him 
having to reveal  personal information. 
Ref: DRN66694932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Barclays provided copies  of the loan agreements,  letters from 2006 offering loans to Mr L 
and statements from 2010 onwards.  These all show the loans were  in Mr Ls name. I havent 
seen evidence the loans were taken  out by a different entity,  as Mr L suggests. Based on the 
available evidence, I think Mr L took out the loans and is responsible for repaying them. I 
think its reasonable for Barclays to contact Mr L about the debt owed. And I think  its entitled  
to appoint a third party to collect the debt on its behalf.
Barclays put collections activity on hold in 2012  while Mr Ls complaint was dealt with. While 
Mr L says it agreed not to apply interest  to his debt he hasnt provided  evidence of this.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr L at his business  address in 2016 but letters were returned as 
Mr L was no longer at that address. In 2018 it wrote to Mr L at his home address. I think  this 
was reasonable.
I think Mr L was aware in 2013 that he owed these  debts to Barclays.  If hed wanted to repay 
them sooner, he could have contacted Barclays. He could have provided Barclays  with up to 
date contact details  when he left his business address. 
Barclays made an error when it didnt  contact Mr L promptly after his complaint was resolved  
in mid-2013. It made refunds on the two loan accounts which reduced the amount owed to 
less than was owed in mid-2013. It wrote off the overdraft owed on the current account (over  
£20,000) and says it wont ask Mr L to pay this. Barclays apologised and paid compensation 
of £200. I think this was reasonable.
Barclays asked for income  and expenditure information from Mr L to help it to decide 
whether to accept  his settlement offer. It says this is its normal process  and provided 
evidence to us to support this. Mr L objects to providing the information. But I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require Barclays to accept (or consider) his offer if he doesnt  provide 
the requested  information. 
I think Barclays is entitled to ask Mr L to pay the debt. Its entitled  to make a decision 
whether to accept  a lower amount in full and final settlement  and to ask for information from 
Mr L to help it make this decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  Barclays Bank UK Plcs response 
to Mr Ls complaint was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ref: DRN66694933Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6669493