K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) refused to let him reject a car 
for which it had provided finance.
background
In July 2017 Mr C leased  a new car from FCA at a cost of over £56,000. His initial  rental was 
£2,397.75 and he was then due to pay £399.63  a month for 23 months. Some  five months  
later he noticed water  in the foot well and the car was taken in for repair.  Several  weeks  after 
the car had been repaired  the problem reoccurred and it was returned to the garage  where  
further repairs were made.  Mr C complained to FCA and then brought the matter to this 
service. FCA agreed to forgo two months  payments  with one of these being  covered by the 
manufacturer.
While his complaint was being  considered Mr C said the fault returned  for a third time and Mr 
C said he wished to reject  the car. The third leak was found  by Mr C in mid March  and it was 
agreed by this service  that a new complaint should  be set up. In April
2018 Mr C left the car with the garage  and indicated that he wished to reject  it. The garage 
employee noted there was water in the foot well. However, the garage  was unable to find a 
cause for the leak and arranged for a smoke machine to be used to test it further. This test 
didnt identify any leak despite the car having  been  exposed to rain for a considerable period 
of time.
The complaint was considered by our investigator  who asked FCA for further information. 
Some of this was unforthcoming  as the garage  had ceased to trade and had been taken 
over. She concluded that Mr C should  be allowed to reject the car. She noted that it had 
been repaired twice  and from the information  he had provided these repairs  hadnt been 
effective.
FCA didnt agree and then obtained  the garages  worksheets which  showed the results of its 
tests for a leak. These  confirmed that the car had been tested in a variety  of situations and 
the garage had sought to replicate the incline  on Mr Cs driveway. It also provided a video to 
confirm there was no evidence of a leak. It added that the car had been sitting in its car park 
subsequent to the tests and there was still no sign of a leak.
After considering the worksheets and video the investigator concluded  the complaint should 
not be upheld.  She believed  there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that the car hadnt 
been properly  repaired. She said FCA had offered the following:
- The current  arrears balance stands at £2,797.34  and the early  termination fee is £1,374.71 
so the total amount owed  at this point is £4,172.05
- We will accept 50% of this as a resolution to the complaint so he will need to pay 
£2,086.03.
The investigator said she thought that was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mr C didnt 
agree and engaged  a firm of solicitors to act on his behalf. It said that the video only showed 
that the car had now been fixed. It also asked that Mr Cs full legal costs be reimbursed.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ref: DRN60347772In considering what is fair and reasonable, I explained that I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice at the 
time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire agreement,  in this case is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. FCA is 
also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a complaint 
about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I said it was accepted that the car had a leak which was repaired and the repair  didnt fix the 
problem and it had to be repaired second time. These two repairs took some  considerable 
time and Mr C was without the car. I appreciated Mr C had expressed  his disappointment 
that the courtesy car he was given wasnt a like for like replacement.
Nevertheless I believed  this aspect of his complaint was addressed by the offer to refund two 
months payments.
I considered it a reasonable expectation  of the buyer of an expensive  new car that it didnt 
leak. In fact I didnt believe it reasonable for any new car to leak. Once it has leaked I would 
then expect that fault to be remedied at the first attempt. However, in this case that repair  
failed and a second was made.
I believed it was open to Mr C to reject  the car after the first failed repair,  but I hadnt seen 
any evidence of him attempting to do so. I gathered he wasnt  aware  that he could do so and 
his emails refer to termination  of the agreement  rather than rejection. I added that although 
he could have sought to reject  the car at that point there is no guarantee such  a request 
would have been upheld.
However, he had sought  to reject the car after the leak reappeared after the second repair 
and he found  water in the foot well. I noted the garage employee had confirmed there was 
water in the car when Mr C brought it back a third time. The problem  was that the garage 
wasnt able to identify  the source of the leak and it wasnt able to replicate it. I appreciated it 
has carried out fairly extensive testing.
The question of an independent report was raised, but no agreement  was reached between  
the parties on this and so none was undertaken. I found both parties evidence credible and I 
had no reason to doubt Mr C when he said the car continued to leak after the second repair. 
Ref: DRN60347773Similarly, I had no reason to doubt the report from the garage that it couldnt find a source for 
the leak and that since  Mr C handed it back there has been no sign of any water ingress.
Therefore, after much  deliberation I concluded  that the car did leak at least once after the 
second repair. The garage employee had confirmed there was water in the foot well when 
Mr C returned the car. I didnt believe that the water was put there  by Mr C and the only 
credible explanation was that the car suffered a third leak. This meant  the second repair 
wasnt successful. The fact that the garage couldnt  find the cause  of, or was unable  to 
replicate, the leak didnt  mean it didnt leak a third time.
The garage had had two attempts to repair the fault and deal with the leak,  but since  it 
leaked a third time I considered that was sufficient  to allow Mr C to reject the car.
Mr C agreed, but FCA didnt. It said that an independent inspection  would  have been  
beneficial. It also said it was disappointed  that Mr Cs testimony carried  more weight than 
investigations and reports. It said that rather cruelly for a car of this type it is living outside in 
all weathers. It wondered  if the implication  was that the dealer made a third repair  after the 
car was returned with FCA being  made aware of that. It refuted that had happened.  
It suggested an alternative offer. It said it would accept the car back  as a gesture  of goodwill 
and write  off the arrears. It would also remove the arrears markers  from Mr Cs credit  file
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I both appreciate and understand  the disappointment expressed by FCA, but I am not 
persuaded that my decision was wrong.  Nor do I consider  FCAs revised offer to be suitable.
I must make it clear  that I am not simply persuaded by Mr Cs testimony. It is clear there was 
an issue with the car leaking  which wasnt remedied at the first attempt. Therefore it is 
agreed that there was a problem with the car that required  at least  two efforts  to repair  it. In 
those circumstances  it is not as surprising as it might be that the fault developed a third time.
I also relied, not only on Mr Cs testimony,  but on that of the dealers representative who 
confirmed there was water in the car when it was returned a third time. I dont consider it 
reasonable to suggest that Mr C deliberately put the water into the foot well to dupe the 
dealer. So we have a situation where there  clearly is a leak at the point the car was brought 
back a third time. 
I consider that to be enough to allow Mr C to reject  the car. It means  that there was a fault 
which hadnt been rectified previously  and under consumer law the dealer was entitled to 
one opportunity to repair  the car and having  failed to do so Mr C was entitled to reject  the 
car. I note FCA is concerned that the mater has dragged on, but it was open  to it and the 
dealer to allow Mr C to reject the car at that point.  
I recognise that the dealer  hasnt  been able to identify the cause of the leak or to replicate it, 
but given the history  of the car and its faults,  which have not been disputed, the fact that it 
was faulty a third time overrides the inability to identify the cause.  Nor do I think Mr C can be 
held responsible because he kept the car outdoors. I doubt that the dealer told him he could  
Ref: DRN60347774only keep inside when  not being used. Therefore, in conclusion I consider my original 
recommendations to be fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
to do the following:
allow Mr C to reject the car with nothing further  due;
refund  Mr Cs deposit (initial rental), plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
remove any arrears accrued from April 2018 to date (and refund any payments that 
Mr C has made since this point,  if applicable)  as Mr C hasnt  had use of the car 
during this period;
remove any adverse information  from Mr Cs credit file in relation to this agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6034777