K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed her account despite  telling  her that 
they wouldnt, and that they then recorded  a default against her. 
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mrs B and HSBC so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
In April 2017 HSBC  wrote to Mrs B and explaining the terms and conditions (TCs)  required 
her to make regular payments to the account  when  it was overdrawn. They  asked her to 
make a payment  as it was overdrawn by £926.50.  As she did not, in June they asked her to 
make an immediate payment as the overdrawn balance was £1,027.75. Notice  was given 
that a potential consequence of not doing so was the issue  of a formal demand  for full 
repayment. As no payment was made, HSBC wrote again, in July, asking her to make  an 
immediate repayment  of the balance  of £1,042.78, and reminding her about  the formal  
demand. In August HSBC  notified  Mrs B that her overdraft limit had been cancelled.  On the 
13 September HSBC  wrote advising they would be issuing a demand for full repayment after 
the expiry of 7 days if they did not hear from her with payment. They  confirmed that if failed 
to pay it could lead to the closure of her account.  On the 3 November HSBC sent Mrs B a 
formal demand advising  her that she had until the 21 November to pay off the overdrawn 
balance of £1,101.56, and if it wasnt it would  be defaulted. 
On the 24 November 2017 Mrs B called HSBC to discuss the account.  The representative 
told Mrs B that it would be fine if she started paying  her wages into the account from January 
2018. But in December the account was closed and a default registered against Mrs B. 
When Mrs B complained to HSBC  they accepted that their representative had not made it 
clear during  the call on the 24 November that the account was to be shortly closed. In 
recognition of that failure HSBC applied  £50 to her account. However they did not accept 
that they had acted  unfairly in closing  the account or reporting  the default.
Mrs B was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so the adjudicator  looked  into the complaint 
but didnt think  HSBC had acted unfairly. As Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I need to consider whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mrs B. I 
take into account both their view and that of Mrs B. My aim is not to reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the evidence before me. Where  that evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances of the case.  
From the evidence I can see that HSBC were writing to Mrs B between April and November 
advising her that she was overdrawn and what action she was required to take.  I also take 
Ref: DRN68218972into account that Mrs B would know of the existence of her account and the fact that it was 
overdrawn and that no payments were being made to reduce the balance.
When the formal  demand was issued on the 3 November  it contained  all the necessary 
information Mrs B needed to allow  her to take action to prevent  the default occurring. I 
appreciate Mrs B denies receiving letters but the evidence persuades me that they were  in 
fact sent out to her. So in that regard I cannot  say HSBC have acted unfairly in issuing a 
formal demand after many previous requests were made to put the account in order.
Having made the formal  demand and set out the consequences of non compliance, and in 
the face of actual non compliance, I cannot say HSBC acted unfairly  in closing the account  
and registering the default.
There is of course the issue of the incorrect statement made  during the call of the 
24 November, but by that time the default  had already  occurred. That incorrect advice 
ultimately didnt change anything because the account had already defaulted by that time. I 
have seen, and taken into account,  the evidence showing that Mr B had funds which  he says 
could have been applied to the account. I am unsure why those funds were  not used much 
earlier before the formal  demand was made, if indeed they were  available,  but as a fact they 
were not. But again  the issue is not relevant because having  made  the formal demand, it 
was not complied with. So it follows that the action taken by HSBC is in line with their 
procedures for closure and registering a default and was therefore fair and reasonable.
I have thought about the compensation HSBC made to Mrs B for their accepted error, and I 
think that this is reasonable. It is in line with the awards this service would make for distress  
and inconvenience  in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put matters  
right. I know  Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision but I cant  say HSBC  have acted  
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6821897