K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the cash advance transaction fee that was applied by Virgin Money 
plc (Virgin) when he completed a credit card transaction with a money transfer service.
background
In January 2019 Mr H used his Virgin credit card to pay the remaining balance  of 
approximately £4,000 for a holiday villa he was renting in another  country.  Mr H chose to use 
a money transfer  service,  T, to make  the payment in local currency.  Mr H said he was 
offered a choice between  a £5 fee to use his debit card or a £7 fee to use a credit card. He 
chose the credit card as he said he knew he would have additional protection and other 
benefits. He used the credit card for the transaction between his credit card account and T. 
Shortly after, Mr H discovered he had been  charged a cash  advance fee of over £200,  
along with a non-sterling transaction fee of £0.49 and interest of £11.50. Mr H said he 
believed T to be a business  like any other and that he was just making a payment of over 
£4,000 and T would do the rest. He said he could have chosen to use his debit card as he 
had the funds in his account but opted  to pay the additional £2 for the protection and 
benefits of using his credit card.  He said the transaction went through  without any warnings 
that he would be charged any extra for the transaction. He said he didnt think  T was at fault 
because he took on face value everything its website told him. He complained to Virgin.  
In its final response Virgin  said Mr H had been charged a fee because  the card transaction 
had been used to move funds from his credit card account to another  bank account. It 
considered the transaction to be a cash advance. Mr H wasnt  satisfied and brought his 
complaint to this service.  He said he didnt see the transaction as a cash advance  because 
he saw no money. He said he was unaware this would be considered a cash  transaction.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Virgin had done anything wrong and had acted in line with its 
terms and conditions. Mr H didnt agree and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
He said he had not been provided with adequate information to enable him to make an 
informed decision as to how his payment to T would  be treated. He asked the ombudsman  
to consider the difference in his paying  for a car service with his credit  card to the transaction 
with T. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H but having done  so I wont  be asking Virgin  to do anything further. 
Mr H has said he is aware that withdrawing cash on a credit  card is an expensive  way of 
obtaining cash and that hes never done  it before. He said if he had been given warning that 
this transaction  was in some way akin to this he would most certainly have opted to pay by 
debit card instead. He said his father  uses T as a very cheap way for paying  for something in 
a foreign country and so thought making  the payment to T was a better option for him. He 
said he hadnt seen  any cash and just made a payment. 
I do understand Mr Hs frustration at this situation as he thought  he was buying  a service 
from T and not obtaining cash. But this isnt quite the case. A cash advance  is an amount of 
cash borrowed against the credit card limit. The transaction he made  was to make a 
Ref: DRN67752072payment of cash from his credit card into Ts bank  account to buy foreign currency. The 
transaction from his credit  card was not to directly pay for goods (in this case  the holiday 
villa) but to purchase  foreign currency in order for T to make a payment for the villa. This is 
confirmed by the entry on Mr Hs credit card statement  which is a payment to T and not for 
the villa. Its not unusual for banks to consider the purchase of foreign currency or travellers 
cheques using a credit card to be a cash advance so I dont think  it s unreasonable for 
Virgin to do so, even  though Mr H didnt physically  obtain the cash.  
Mr H has said he didnt have enough  information to make an informed decision. Im satisfied 
he was aware he was making the payment to T and not directly to the holiday villa vendor.  
And Im also satisfied he did so in order for T to exchange the funds into local currency  for T 
to make the payment for the villa. Mr H has asked me to explain the difference between  this 
transaction and, for example, using his credit  card to pay for a car service. Its my role to 
look at the individual circumstances of this complaint  only so I am unable to comment  on a 
comparative transaction. But I am persuaded that the service Mr H was buying from T was 
foreign exchange  and as such I consider it reasonable  that Virgin considered this a cash  
transaction.
Mr H has also said hes aware that using his credit  card to obtain  cash is very expensive  so 
Im satisfied Mr H was aware that a cash advance on his card would incur charges. And 
these charges are outlined on his statements. Mr H said he took the information from Ts 
website at face value. But I note on the help page  of Ts website it states  that banks may 
charge a cash advance fee with credit card payments. It advises customers  to contact their 
bank prior to making  a credit card transaction in order  to confirm how the bank will treat the 
transaction and whether it would see it as a cash advance.  
Mr H has also complained  about  how Virgin handled  his complaint. Unfortunately  complaint  
handling is not a regulated activity so I am unable to comment  on this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6775207