K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with his motor  
insurance claim and with his complaint regarding this. 
background
Mr P made a claim through  Admiral  following his car being  involved in an accident.  He was 
given the option of Admiral handling  the claim or a third party company who arrange repairs  
and a hire car. He initially elected to have  his claim dealt with by the third party company. 
However, after experiencing  a number of issues, asked Admiral  to take over dealing with his 
claim. 
Admiral, offered to pay a cash sum for the claim.  But following an inspection of the car, an 
engineer recommended  a test be carried out. I think this was because the engineer was 
concerned the wheel alignment was out due to the accident. Admiral withheld the cash  offer 
until this inspection was completed.
Mr P complained to Admiral. He was unhappy  the vehicle had to go for another check when 
it had already been assessed. He said he should have been given a courtesy  car during  the 
claim as he was left without a vehicle on two occasions. He was also unhappy that he had to 
make a substantial number of telephone calls in order  to try and move his claim forward, 
which he thought  shouldnt have been necessary.
Admiral agreed Mr P had been inconvenienced by the number of calls he had made to it. So 
it offered to pay him £100  in compensation  for this. But it didnt think it had done anything  
wrong in relation to the other complaint points. It said that the delays in the claim were partly  
due to requests  made by Mr P. And the additional  test was requested by the engineer  to 
make sure no issues had been missed.  It didnt think it was responsible for providing Mr P 
a courtesy car, as his policy outlined this would  only be provided for the duration  of repairs.  
As it was settling by a cash  payment,  the car wasnt being repaired.  
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with this response and provided evidence  of the calls he had made and 
the time these had taken. He was also unhappy  with Admirals response  to his complaint 
and the delays in its responses. Additionally, he was unhappy Admiral had failed to supply 
a courtesy car as promised when his vehicle  was taken for the additional test. And it wasnt 
returned until the following day.
Admiral accepted Mr P had been misinformed  of its time limits to give a response to his 
complaint and acknowledged  the amount of time Mr P had spent trying  to sort out the claim. 
Admiral also agreed Mr P was impacted by the two days in which  he was without a vehicle. 
So it offered  to pay him £350 in addition  to the £100 previously offered.
Mr P complained to our service and asked  if the amount of compensation offered by Admiral 
was fair in the circumstances.  An investigator  looked  into this and thought Admirals offer 
was fair, so he thought it shouldnt do anything more. 
Mr P was unhappy with this response, so the matter  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN65771442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number  of points in his complaint, but I think from the information  I have  
seen, his main concern  is the time he had spent resolving his claim and subsequent 
complaints.
The delays in Mr Ps claim  being settled can be aligned to a number of points throughout the 
process. I think  some of these werent  because of errors caused  by Admiral. Mr P elected to 
have his claim handled by a third party company. And from the evidence  I have  seen there 
has been no dispute about his choice to use this service rather than Admirals. It may have  
not been made clear to Mr P of the difference between Admiral  and the third party company 
handling his claim.  But I dont think it fair to hold Admiral responsible for the actions  of the 
third party company. And I think the compensation paid is adequate to cover  any additional 
distress caused by the fact Admiral may not have  explained this clearly  enough to Mr P.
It was under Mr Ps instruction that Admiral took over the claim, and he is perfectly  within his 
right to do this. But Admiral had to make a separate assessment of the claim as it would 
need to know  how much to pay Mr P. So, although Mr P had already given the relevant 
information to the third party company  I think it was important that Admiral ensured that this 
was accurate. And the only way it could  do this was to ask Mr P directly.  This inevitably 
would cause delays  in the claim being settled. 
Admiral had initially arranged for the inspection of Mr Ps car, but following a review of the 
inspection by an engineer a further check was requested.  As this was requested by an 
engineer trained in their field of work I have no reason to doubt  the check  was necessary. 
And I think this actually benefited Mr P in ensuring  the correct  amount of money was paid to 
him. I appreciate this caused another delay which  could have been identified  on the initial 
inspection of the car. But I have also considered that the further  check couldnt have been 
completed at the inspection, as this was carried out at Mr Ps home address. Nevertheless, it 
had caused a delay and I think this did cause Mr P inconvenience. Ive taken this into 
consideration when thinking about  what Admiral has paid overall  in compensation. 
Mr Ps car was collected  from his home address  in order to have the test completed. But it 
wasnt returned until the following day leaving him without a car. I can see from the evidence 
that Admiral did attempt to make  arrangements  with a hire car company to have a temporary  
car provided.  But due to a disagreement  between Mr P and the hire car company this was 
not fulfilled. As Admiral  was unable to provide Mr P an alternative, I can understand his 
frustrations in being left without a car. Admiral  did however include £20 in its compensation 
for the two days he was without one, and this is what I would expect in these circumstances. 
Ive taken this into consideration when thinking  about what  Admiral has paid overall in 
compensation. 
So in considering the level of compensation offered to Mr P I have also looked at the delay 
with his claim, the chasing he has had to do and the way in which his complaint was 
handled. 
Mr P has shown  the quantity of calls and length of time he had spent on his claim. And 
looking at this I think he had made  a large  number of calls to Admiral,  which  combined, adds 
up to a lengthy period of time. I take into account  that some  of these calls he has evidenced 
Ref: DRN65771443are not to Admiral but the third party companies  involved  in the claims  process. But Admiral 
accepts there was a significant delay in updating  Mr P when information  had been provided 
by its engineer. So I think its likely Mr Ps high number of calls to Admiral was as a result of 
him not being  updated properly. And I dont think he would have had to make so many  calls 
if he was being  supplied sufficient updates to his claim. Mr P has outlined  the way in which 
this has affected  his work life. And its clear,  considering the evidence  of his call history,  this 
has had an impact on Mr Ps time during  his working hours. I think this has clearly caused  
him a considerable amount of frustration.
In addition to not being  updated regarding his claim,  I think Admiral  have made  failings 
during Mr Ps complaint in its communication. Mr P has had to chase responses to his 
complaint beyond the time he had been informed he would receive one. And he was given  
incorrect timescales for when this would be dealt with. So I think this added to the distress  
he was caused  from the delays to his claim.
Having said this, Admiral  has addressed Mr Ps points in its response  to his complaint and 
offered £450 in compensation  for its errors and for the distress caused. It has acknowledged 
that the quantity of calls was high, Mr P wasnt contacted  promptly for updates and that he 
was misled on when  it would respond  to his complaint. So I think  Admiral had been  fair in its 
investigation of his complaint. And taking  all of the complaint points  into account and how 
this has impacted Mr P, I think  £450  is a fair and reasonable amount for Admiral  to pay for 
the distress and inconvenience  Mr P experienced. Therefore, it would be unreasonable for 
me to ask Admiral to do anything else. 
my final decision
Im aware that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has made an offer to pay Mr P £450 in 
compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand this has already been paid to Mr P, but if that isnt the case Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  should now go ahead and do that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6577144