K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Skrill Limited have charged him for a currency transfer and not paid him 
the correct amount.
background
Mr P says he opened the Skrill account  in 2018 and in 2019  transferred £75,000  into it which 
was then converted into US dollars (USD) which amounted to 95,000 USD. Mr P says he 
later decided to transfer the money  back to Sterling but only received £62,965 a shortfall  of 
about £5,000. He says he was unaware that Skrill charged a 3.99% fee and that information 
was not in the account terms and conditions. And that Skrill transferred his money  into Euros  
first which would mean a double charge  of 3.99%. Mr P says that practice is unfair and he 
would like his money returned of about £5,000.
Skrill doesnt accept  making a mistake and says its acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions which contain information about  the charge. It says before executing a transaction 
customers are presented with details  of the fee, exchange rate to be used and details  of the 
payment and that Mr P would have agreed  to it. Skrill accepts it could have explained  
matters more clearly when it spoke to Mr P and has paid a goodwill gesture of 120USD.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think the account terms and conditions were  clear about money  being  converted into Euros  
first. But thought the main point was that Mr P was given sufficient information about  the 
transaction before agreeing to it such as the fee and the amounts  and if Mr P was unhappy  
he could have cancelled  the transaction. The investigator didnt think  it mattered that a 
conversion into Euros took place and that the fee would have visible  and that information 
about the fee was in the terms and conditions. The investigator thought the gesture of 
goodwill payment fair and reasonable.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and questions why Skrill would  need  to convert his money into 
Euros first. He says he must have paid the 3.99% charge  twice  and says the screen  shot 
would have been after the transaction had taken place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  I think Mr P would have  agreed  to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  make clear that 
a 3.99% charge will be made. So I dont think Skrill made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
making that charge and Im satisfied Mr P agreed to it. I also make clear  to Mr P that I have  
not seen any evidence that the charge was made twice.  I have  also seen a screen shot of 
what Mr P would have seen before authorising the transaction and Im satisfied  details of 
that charge were  again visible. If Mr P was unsure about any charge then I would have 
expected him to have checked  the position  with Skrill when the account  was opened as for 
the reasons I have  explained, Im satisfied  the terms and conditions have a clear  section on 
charges and a link to the actual amounts.
Ref: DRN63148632I also think the terms and conditions do deal with the conversion of currency  into Euros. But I 
dont think that issue is relevant  as I think the important point is that Mr P was given 
sufficient information  about the transaction before he authorised it. Im satisfied  that Skrill 
told Mr P what the amount he would receive and the fee before he approved  it. So I dont 
think Skrill made a mistake in those  circumstances or acted unfairly. Im also satisfied that 
the 3.99%  fee was charged once.
Overall I accept that Mr P may not have realised that a fee was due but I think  he authorised 
the transaction and if he was unhappy  then he could have cancelled it. I accept that Skrill 
could have explained what had happened  more  clearly to Mr P but Im satisfied its gesture of 
goodwill payment is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  For those reasons I cant fairly 
order Skrill to repay  the money Mr P says he lost.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6314863