K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the increases  in premiums on her home insurance with UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI). 
background 
Miss Gs home insurance policy with UKI started  in 2011. The first combined  premiums 
charged in 2011  totalled  £534.24 for the year. This increased every year as far as 2016  
when the premiums were  £881.48. Miss G didnt realise how much the premium had 
increased until 2017 when she challenged the cost of the policies.  At this point she looked  at 
the price of alternative  policies on comparison websites and saw they were much  cheaper. 
UKI say they offered  Miss G a discounted  premium  but she chose not to renew her cover.  
Miss G thinks UKI has taken advantage of her by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy 
every year. She says she was charged too much  and he should be compensated for the 
extra she had paid over the years. 
The business didnt  think it had acted unfairly   and our adjudicator agreed. 
Miss G disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would 
be, in effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not 
my role. But I can look at whether UKI has treated Miss G fairly throughout the period 
she held her insurance policy. 
In 2011, Miss Gs home insurance  cost £534.24  for the year  she agreed to take out 
the policy at this price  and shes hasnt said she was unhappy with the initial  price.  
UKI has sent us evidence to show Miss Gs policy  had an introductory discount 
applied. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially  be priced lower  to attract  
new customers. I dont think its unfair  for an insurer to seek  to recoup that cost over 
the first few years. UKI has said thats  what happened here and I can see the highest 
increases in price  took place in the earliest  years  of the policy. 
I can see that Miss Gs premiums continued  to increase each year and she didnt 
engage with UKI about her premiums until 2017. She says she was being 
overcharged and only realised when she used price  comparison websites in 2017. 
She decided to cancel her home  insurance  policy at this point. 
If UKI increased the price just because  Miss G didnt engage at each renewal, that 
wouldnt be fair. Looking at all the facts, Im not persuaded it increased the price  just 
because she didnt  engage at renewal and cant say it acted  unfairly. 
Miss G says she was overcharged and should get a refund. Miss G points to the 
alternative lower premium quotes she was able to get on price comparison websites 
in 2017. Ive thought  about this. But these  policies  would not have been identical to 
Ref: DRN61991932the one she had with UKI and so cant be compared like for like. Along with a 
difference in premium, there also wouldve been  differences in cover and difference 
excesses. I must also take into account that these  wouldve been new policies  being  
quoted in 2017 so Miss G possibly received a discount on the premium  cost being 
quoted as well. So this doesnt  make  me think UKI acted unfairly.   
Ive thought about everything Miss G has said including what shes said about  being 
unhappy that her policy auto-renewed.  Ive thought  about this. But auto-renewals  are 
common practice in the insurance  industry  and this wouldnt  be a reason  in itself for 
me to uphold the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss G but I 
do not think UKI acted  unfairly  so dont uphold  this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6199193