K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. To be clear, this decision relates to the policy that was taken  out in 
2002 when Miss R applied for a new credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Miss R that they didnt think her mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, Halifax has since offered to give back  to Miss R some of the 
cost of the PPI. 
Miss R still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs mis-sale complaint.
Weve seen a few similar cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite  a bit 
about how the sales processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements and as a result of that discussion 
a credit agreement was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
We were sent a copy of Miss Rs agreement and I can see a box about  PPI was selected 
on the form. We know the sale was carried out in a branch,  so I think  the PPI being  chosen 
in this way wouldve been done  as a result of the conversation  Ive mentioned  above.  Miss R 
also signed the agreement, so I think this shows she asked for the cover.
So whilst I accept this is all quite a long time ago, I think its more likely Halifax got Miss Rs 
consent for the PPI and she would have  been able to see it had been set up on her account.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Miss R. I think it was.
This is because I think Miss R was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that shed have  been  
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Miss R. 
Miss R says she got sick pay with her job at the time and she had some savings. Ive 
thought about these  things but Im afraid  they dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of any 
use. In the event of a successful claim for example, the PPI could have  paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year. So having very carefully considered 
everything Miss R has told us, overall I think the policy was suitable  for her.
Ref: DRN69445422Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Miss R 
to make an informed decision.  She says it wasnt and I obviously cant say she was told 
everything she should have been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  I also think Miss R would  have been  given  
something explaining the policy rules.
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Miss R paid for it. But its offered to give her back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank of Scotland Plc will make  
arrangements to pay Miss R now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint about  the mis-sale.  I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6944542