K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Mercer  Limited  (Mercer)  gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Section 32 pension.  Mr V says Mercer didnt 
make it clear  that the Guaranteed Minimum Pension  (GMP) might not be met by the fund. 
And he was never told about the restrictions of the policy which  he thinks are unfair.
background
In November 1990, Mr V was advised by Mercer  to transfer his OPS from his previous 
employer to a Section  32 buy-out plan.  A total of £5,073 was transferred.  Mr V was 35 years  
of age at the time and the OPS represented  four years of pensionable service. The selected 
retirement age was 65 and at the time of advice Mr V had already joined his new employers 
OPS. 
During the advice  process it was set out if Mr V stayed within the OPS  until retirement he 
would receive £8,430  a year. The illustration provided by the selected provider showed the 
potential benefits  due at retirement  following transfer   these were illustrated at growth rates 
of 8.5%  and 13%. Within the sale documentation  it was explained that the benefits  within  the 
OPS included a Guaranteed Minimum Pension  (GMP). The illustration set out what  would be 
payable under the new policy if the growth  rates  were met. 
The recommendation letter for transfer said Any pension over and above  the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension will depend upon investment performance and annuity  rates  prevailing at 
the time of retirement.
More recently Mr V has realised his pension doesnt  cover the GMP and he wont be entitled 
to any tax-free cash.
Mercer said in response to the complaint that Mr V was made aware there was a risk in 
transferring and that any additional benefits  beyond  the GMP would depend on performance.
Mercer carried out a retrospective Financial Viability  Test (FVT) which showed the critical 
yield required to match Mr Vs OPS  was 10.3%. And the guideline  issued by the regulator  
was 14.1%. Therefore, it said a critical yield of 10.3% wouldve been  considered  achievable 
at the time.
Mercer said that by transferring to a Section 32 plan instead of a personal pension,  Mr V 
kept some  security that he wouldnt otherwise  have  had. And therefore, they dont consider 
the recommendation at the time to be unsuitable.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt  uphold  the complaint, she didnt think the 
advice to take out a section 32 was unsuitable.  She explained that the GMP would be met 
regardless of the performance of the plan. And that the risk of what has happened,  that only 
the GMP will be paid, was small considering the circumstances  at time of advice.
Mr V said in response that it was not make  clear to him that a tax-free lump sum may not be 
payable. He was never  made aware  of the risk that this wouldnt be available. Mr V said the 
limiting conditions of taking out the policy was never explained to him satisfactorily.
Ref: DRN66525002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What it is I have to decide?
I need to decide whether the Section  32 was unsuitable considering the circumstances at the 
time. And whether Mr V was given enough information about the product. And if he was not, 
would he have decided  to do anything differently.
Mr Vs complaint is not that the advice to transfer was unsuitable  if it was, there may be 
some jurisdictional issues in terms of time  so its not necessary  to discuss  the advice to 
transfer as a whole. But Mr V is unhappy  with the choice  of a Section 32 as the product to 
hold his ex OPS benefits.
My conclusions
In transferring Mr Vs OPS benefits outside of the OPS  environment, Mr V had two choices 
essentially. To go into a standard  personal  pension where hed have  no security in terms of 
value. Or the Section 32 which would preserve a proportion of the value. At the time of 
advice in 1990, rates of investment returns were high. And so its fair to say it was expected  
Mr Vs pension  fund would perform at a rate that would exceed  the cost of providing the 
GMP at retirement. In that scenario Mr V would have his GMP plus additional  funds to use 
as extra  pension or to take tax-free  cash from. From  my knowledge and experience of what  
businesses in the market place were  doing  at the time  GMP costs not being met by the 
fund at retirement was not something  the providers considered a particular risk. Some 
Section 32 contracts  from the time for instance,  werent even specific about what  would  
happen to the benefits in this scenario, as it just wasnt foreseen.
Mr Vs pension  provider  accepted the risk of the transfer value of just over £5,000; knowing 
that if the fund didnt  grow sufficiently it would have  to pay whatever it cost to buy Mr V a 
pension to the value of the GMP.
Unfortunately, we now know things didnt work out as was expected in the early  90s. 
Investment returns have plummeted  meaning pension funds were  generally a lot smaller 
than estimated. Alongside this, falling annuity rates and increased life expectancy have 
meant annuities have become much more expensive to provide (here the cost of providing 
the GMP will be much higher than Im sure the provider wouldve bargained for in 1990). The 
end result being Mr Vs Section 32 will only provide  him with the GMP and nothing  more at 
his retirement date. Mr V says it was not adequately  explained to him that in this scenario he 
would only get the GMP and no tax-free cash.
I cant be sure all of what Mr V wouldve been  told about this in 1990. Mr V says it wasnt 
explained in enough detail  as to what would happen if the GMP was not met. However,  I 
have to take into account this was a meeting and conversation  that happened 30 years ago. 
Even if the adviser  had discussed  this, its quite plausible Mr V may no longer  remember.  In 
any event, I can accept  that its possible the adviser wouldnt have said much  about this 
scenario. I say that because I dont think it wouldve been seen as an important topic  of 
discussion for the adviser. I think the adviser  wouldve considered  it quite unlikely that the 
GMP cost wouldnt be met, considering the illustrations of future  growth compared to the 
expectations of the costs  involved  of purchasing  the GMP. The adviser  also talked about the 
Ref: DRN66525003ability to transfer  to a personal pension but there  was no mention of the potential  this 
couldnt be done if the GMP wasnt met. Which adds  weight to my belief the adviser didnt 
consider this potential  scenario likely.
However, that said, the documentation does show that the GMP figures were set out to Mr 
V. So he knew what the GMP amounted to. And he was told that any pension  above the 
GMP would  depend  on investment performance  and annuity  rates.  And this was clearly 
stated towards the top of Mr Vs recommendation letter. So ultimately Mr V was told the crux 
of the matter even  if it wasnt explored in any more detail.
Whilst I can appreciate Mr Vs frustration that there likely wasnt  a more  detailed explanation, 
I cant look at this situation with hindsight. Mr Vs points of complaint now seemed  very 
unlikely 30 years ago. Looking at what Mr V was told at the time, I accept Mr V probably 
wouldnt have understood the implications of the GMP not being  met. But had he known, I 
think its unlikely he wouldve disagreed with the advisers recommendation in any event. The 
Section 32 provided  a guarantee that the personal pension didnt. Which  meant  in the worst  
case scenario, Mr V would still receive some value  from the plan. So I dont think  this was an 
unsuitable recommendation.
Its worth  noting that Mr V is unhappy because of the restriction of having  to take the GMP. 
But without the restrictions  of the Section 32 his benefits would be worth  a lot less. The value 
of the GMP in May was £63,000 but Mr Vs fund was only worth £28,000 then. That means  
the provider will have  to make up the difference  and Mr Vs benefits  are worth a lot more 
than the value of his fund.  If hed transferred to a personal pension he would just have the 
value of his fund (approx. £28,000) but more flexibility with what he can do with that fund.
I appreciate that Mr V is unhappy about not having the option of tax-free  cash. And Im not 
aware of his full circumstances   but hes told us this is only a small part of his pension 
planning and he has another OPS, which presumably he can and will chose to take tax-free 
cash from. Whilst the Section 32 is inflexible, Mr V will receive what  would otherwise be 
unattainable value  for money in terms of the annuity he will receive from the fund.  And this 
value is something  I think many would look to capitalise  on even if they could have a lump 
sum instead. Especially  if they have larger sources of pension benefits with tax-free  cash  
available elsewhere.
With what he knows now, Mr V believes the Section 32 was unsuitable  for him. If he has an 
immediate need  for cash (over and above  what he can get from other  pension  sources) then 
I can understand why he feels this way. But the Section 32 has protected  a valuable 
guarantee for him (when compared  with the alternative) and will give him pension  benefits 
far in excess  of what he wouldve got if he instead was recommended a personal  pension. 
So I dont  see any grounds  to say that the advice was unsuitable.
I understand Mr V will be unhappy with my decision and I can appreciate his frustration 
about the restrictions of the Section 32. Especially given the flexibility  available now in the 
market; but it should be remembered that this flexibility  didnt  exist in 1990 when the advice 
was given. 
For all the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award.
Ref: DRN66525004Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision   before 23 August 2021.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6652500