K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed his account  to one 
with an increased  monthly fee without his knowledge or consent. Mr R paid a monthly fee for 
the account which provided several  benefits  in return.
background
Mr R held a Current Account Plus with Barclays. This is a packaged bank account that 
comes with a number of benefits, in return for a monthly fee. Mr R hasnt complained about 
that account.
In May 2016  Barclays changed Mr Rs account from the Current Account Plus, to a fee-free  
Barclays Bank Account  with a paid-for Tech Pack.  This was a decision made  by Barclays 
to change its product  range, which included the withdrawal of the Current  Account Plus. 
Instead of moving  customers with a Current Account Plus to an account  without benefits, 
Barclays migrated them to the closest available account in its new range  which  in this case  
was the Tech Pack.
Mr R says he didnt know his account  had been  changed, and so he says Barclays misled 
him. He also says he didnt authorise the change  to his account.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays had acted  unfairly by changing  Mr Rs 
account. Mr R didnt  agree so he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Rs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think Barclays has done anything  
wrong. Ill explain why.
Its not for me to decide which  products  Barclays offers  to its customers   thats  a 
commercial decision for Barclays to make. But I can look at the way it implements changes, 
and in Mr Rs case, that involves  looking at what Barclays told him about  the change  from 
his Current Account Plus to the Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack.
Barclays has provided copies of two letters that it sent to Mr R in relation to his account 
migration. The first letter is dated 24 February  2016   which  is three months before the 
account was changed. I can see it explains the changes  that are due to take place on 
13 May 2016. It also includes a prominent blue box which includes information about  the 
monthly fee, which was due to increase from £6.50 per month, to £9.50  per month. The letter 
also gives the option for Mr R to change his account to a fee-free account if he doesnt want  
the Tech Pack.
Ref: DRN61283352The second  letter is dated  13 May 2016  and informs Mr R that the account change  has now 
been completed. The second paragraph  of the letter again gives  information on the new 
monthly fee, and the accounts  benefits.
I note that both of these  letters are addressed personally to Mr R, at his home address, 
which is the same address as he provided this service when he raised his complaint.
Barclays has also provided its call notes from when  Mr R initially complained.  The note is 
fairly brief but it looks as though Mr R told Barclays that even though it sent him the letters 
informing him of the migration of his account, he wouldnt have read them. Mr R says that 
around the time he was working long hours  in two jobs, so he wouldnt  likely have noticed or 
read the letters. Hes also explained that hed have thought they were  junk mail.
I can certainly understand that with such a busy working life it can be difficult to overlook 
mail or assume  its not important. But in reaching  a fair and reasonable outcome, I have to 
consider what Barclays  did or didnt  do.
Ive also looked  at Mr Rs account transactions. I can see the Tech  Pack was shown as 
Tech Pack  Fee on his statements, so even if he hadnt receive both of the migration letters,  
I still think hed have  known his account had changed to a Tech Pack.
In this case, Im satisfied  that Barclays notified  Mr R that it intended to change  his account, 
and also let him know once that change had been  completed. It also gave Mr R sufficient 
information about the changes that were  being made, and gave  him several  options  on how 
to proceed if he didnt agree with the changes.  So even if Mr R didnt read the letters 
Barclays sent him, Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly  and did what it needed to do to 
keep Mr R updated.
Ive seen that Mr R also said that he wasnt informed when he initially  signed  up for the 
Current Account Plus that his account  would  be migrated  in the future. But I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to have told Mr R that  as its unlikely that was planned at that point, so Barclays  
wouldnt have known  about it.
Ive considered that Mr R has said he asked Barclays not to communicate  with him by post.  
Ive spoken to Barclays and it has confirmed it doesnt have any notes or markers on its 
records in relation to this. It did explain  that Mr R has set preferences  for marketing 
communications, which I dont think wouldve applied to the migration letters.  But even if they 
did, Mr Rs preferences only prevent Barclays from contacting him by phone or fax, rather  
than by post.
Mr R also mentioned an offer that Barclays had made to him before he brought  his complaint 
to this service. Although  Mr R said hed provide  further information for that offer,  he hasnt 
provided any additional details. Barclays says it doesnt have  any details of an offer being  
made to Mr R, either before or after his complaint reached this service.  So I cant  consider 
this point any further.
I want to reassure Mr R that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think  Barclays  
acted unfairly by changing Mr Rs account,  because it gave him adequate notice and enough 
information about the changes before  making  them. So Barclays doesnt need  to repay Mr R 
any of the Tech Pack fees.
Ref: DRN61283353my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6128335