K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr G bought the policy in 2006 at the same time as taking out a credit card. It protected his 
monthly credit card repayments if he couldnt  work as a result  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr G mainly says that he didnt know he had PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G couldnt remember how hed taken  out this credit card and the PPI. Bank of Scotland  
says it sold the PPI and the card during a phone call. 
Theres no call recording and I dont know what,  if anything, was discussed  about PPI when 
Mr G took out his credit card. But on the agreement Mr G signed to get his credit card theres  
a tick in the box to have  PPI added to the account.  So I think  he wouldve seen that it was up 
to him to say if having PPI was something  he wanted. And if he hadnt  wanted to have PPI 
with his credit card,  Mr G couldve  left the PPI box blank.
Mr G signed the completed application  confirming that the information shown on the form 
was correct. So, on balance, I think that Bank of Scotland made Mr G aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland said it recommended the PPI to Mr G. This means it not only had to give 
him important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make 
sure the cover it recommended was suitable  for Mr G. 
Mr G told us he wasnt sure about his sick pay and he had no significant other means  to rely 
on if he wasnt working. The policy paid a monthly benefit that more than covered his 
minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months per claim if he couldnt work. And 
repeat claims were possible.  So I think PPI wouldve given Mr G a useful benefit at whats  
likely to have been a difficult time if he was off work as a result of accident or sickness  or he 
lost his job unexpectedly. I find that PPI was suitable  for Mr G. And this is borne  out by the 
fact that Mr G made a successful claim on the policy in 2009.
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The policy didnt cover  some things. But it doesnt  look as if that 
affected Mr G. So, I dont  think having more information about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Gs decision  to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN61016952I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr G when he bought  the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for him when he took 
the policy out. Mr G paid for the PPI each  month  so he couldve cancelled  the policy at any 
time without  losing out financially if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr G still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed  as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Bank plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland Bank  plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6101695