K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Staveley Head Ltd mis-sold  him a commercial motor  insurance policy.  
background
In June 2017 Mr H took out a motor trade policy through Staveley. It renewed in June 2018. 
Later that year his vehicle was involved in a collision. The insurer  considered it a total loss. 
Mr H was unhappy that the claim settlement  was based on the vehicles trade value  rather  
than its market value.  
Mr H complained to Staveley that it had mis-sold him the policy.  He feels  it didnt make it 
clear to him that only trade value  would be paid. In response Staveley denied there had 
been a mis-sale. It when  he originally took the cover out and when it renewed  he had been 
provided with policy  terms and a Key Facts document. It said he was advised to read these 
to ensure the cover was right for him. And that they both explained  that in the event of loss 
or damage  to a vehicle the most that would be paid is the trade  value.  
Our Investigator  didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. She said its common for motor 
trade policies to use trade valuations. She said she wouldnt expect that term to be 
highlighted during the sale.  But she thought it had been anyway. Mr H didnt accept  her 
assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont agree that the 
policy was mis-sold. 
When selling  insurance businesses are required to provide their customers with information 
thats clear,  fair and not misleading. Thats so the customer can make an informed choice  
about whether  the cover  is right for them. Significant, unusual or onerous  terms should be 
brought to the customers attention.
  
Its standard  for motor trade polices to use a trade value rather a market  value. So its not 
something Id say Staveley needed to highlight or bring to Mr Hs attention during the sale.
Mr H has provided policy  information that was sent to him when  the cover  renewed. He says 
the trade value term wasnt explained  in these. I can see its in the policy document. Its not 
explained in the Key Facts document. But as Ive said its not something Id expect to be 
highlighted or given particular prominence.
So I dont  agree that Staveley did anything  wrong by not bringing the trade valuation term to 
Mr Hs attention. That means I dont think the policy was mis-sold. So Im not making  it pay 
him any compensation or do anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Staveley Head Ltd do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Ref: DRN61586372Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158637