K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited failed to 
contact him about  the reviews of his whole of life policy, which led to it lapsing. 
  
background
Mr M took out his policy in 1993.  It provided  him with indexed  life and critical illness  cover. 
He moved house  in 2013 and put in place a Royal  Mail postal redirection for three years.  
In October  2014 Sun Life wrote to Mr M at the address it had on file with the details of that 
years policy  review. The letter explained that he would need  to increase his premiums  in 
order to maintain the cover until the next review. It said that if it didnt  hear from him the 
policy would continue with the current benefits  but it was unlikely this would last for the next 
five years.  
Despite the postal redirection, Mr M didnt receive this letter, so he took no action. Further  
letters reminding him of the position were also not received. He also didnt receive  a letter  
sent to him in December 2017 explaining  that the policy had by that time lapsed. He only 
became aware  of this when Sun Life subsequently contacted  him by phone. Unhappy with 
what had happened, as he felt hed lost the value and benefits of the policy,  he made a 
complaint through his representative.  
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had sent all the letters to the address 
it had on file. And its process didnt extend  to calling customers when no response  was 
received.     
The complaint was then referred  to this service.  But our adjudicator  also didnt think  it should 
be upheld. He accepted that Mr M had put in place the redirection service but felt that 
ultimately he should have actively ensured his address was changed with Sun Life. 
The adjudicator noted that the policy reviews appeared to have not taken place  at the correct 
five year intervals set out in the policy terms (in 1999, 2004 and 2009, in each case a year 
too late). But he felt that even if the 2014  had been  carried out in 2013 it would still have 
been done after the point  at which Mr M had moved  and set up the redirection, so it would 
havent made any difference.   
Mr Ms representative disagreed. He said that if the reviews  had taken place at the correct  
times it wouldve been within the first few months  of the redirection and so far more  likely to 
have worked successfully. Moreover, at that time Mr M was still making visits to his previous 
address and so wouldve been  likely  to pick up the review letter. 
Further, Sun Life had clearly been  able to contact Mr M by phone  when  the policy lapsed 
and therefore  would, and should, have been  able to do so between  2014 and 2017 in light of 
the lack of response from Mr M to the review letters. Mr Ms representative  said Sun Life 
shouldve treated his continuing payment of premiums as him effectively selecting option 2 
from the 2014 review  letter (a reduction  in the sum assured, which  would have increased the 
longevity of the policy).  Or, if not, it should  have refused  to continue accepting  the ongoing 
direct debit payments.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, so the matters  been referred to me 
to review. 
Ref: DRN69215082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
For me to uphold the complaint I would  need to make a finding that Sun Life had acted 
incorrectly  that it had failed to do something  it should have done. Having looked closely at 
what happened, I dont think this is the case.  
I accept that Sun Life clearly had Mr Ms phone number and therefore could have called him 
prior to 2017, when  the policy lapsed. But should it have done so? 
In my experience, its not at all unusual for policyholders to fail to respond  to policy  review  
letters. Thats one of the reasons why there is a default option given  as there  was in the 
2014 letter  to Mr M  that if Sun Life didnt hear from him the policy would just continue  with 
the current benefits but was unlikely to last for the next five years. 
I dont think Sun Life can be expected  to have unilaterally made  any other change to the 
policy  such as reducing the sum assured  as it wouldve had no way of knowing what 
Mr Ms requirements were, and in any event  the policy terms wouldnt have granted it such a 
power.  
In all the circumstances I dont think its reasonable to expect Sun Life to take extra steps  to 
contact by telephone all policyholders who fail to respond to a policy review. The vast 
majority of these will be customers who simply dont want to make  any change  and, as such, 
are using the default option to effectively  act as their response.   
I note the phone call made to Mr M when the policy lapsed, but to my mind this was a 
different situation.  The policy had come  to an end and Sun Life has explained there  was a 
small value  left. In these circumstances I think a pro-active approach by telephone was 
warranted. 
It is, of course, unfortunate that Mr Ms redirection service  appears to have failed in the case  
of Sun Lifes  communications with him. But he will have been  aware  that he was only putting  
it in place for three years and that his policy was due to last for at least a further eight years. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable  for him to rely solely upon this course of action as 
opposed to actively  confirming his new address to Sun Life. I think it more likely than not that 
if he had done  so the problem wouldnt have arisen.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
James Harris
Ref: DRN69215083ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6921508